Title: The Armed Forces (Appeals Against Review of Sentence) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-09-05
Description: These Regulations make provision for procedures to be followed before the Court Martial Appeal Court in the case of appeals against review of sentence under sections 304D (review of sentence following offer of assistance) and 304E (review of sentence following failure to assist) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (c. 52) (the “2006 Act”). Sections 304D and 304E were inserted into the 2006 Act by the Armed Forces Act 2016 (c. 21).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/619

## The Armed Forces (Appeals Against Review of Sentence) Regulations 2024

    DEFENCE

  Made   7th May 2024

  Laid before Parliament   13th May 2024

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 304D(10) and (11), 304E(9) and (10), 373(5) and 380 of
the Armed Forces Act 2006 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Armed Forces (Appeals Against Review of
Sentence) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the date on which sections 10 and 11 of
the Armed Forces Act 2016  come into force.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland, the
Isle of Man and the British overseas territories (except Gibraltar).

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 1968 Act ” means the Court Martial Appeals Act 1968 ;           “
the 2006 Act ” means the Armed Forces Act 2006;           “ advocacy services
” means any services which it would be reasonable to expect a person who is
exercising, or contemplating exercising, a right of audience in relation to
any proceedings, or contemplated proceedings, to provide;           “ Appeal
Court ” means the Court Martial Appeal Court ;           “ appellant ” means
the person who applies for leave to appeal, or who is granted leave to appeal
under Parts 2 or 3 of these Regulations;           “ Director of Service
Prosecutions ” has the meaning given by section 374 of the 2006 Act;
“ expert witness costs ” means amounts payable in respect of the services of
an expert witness, including amounts payable in connection with attendance by
the witness at court or elsewhere;           “ legal costs ” means fees,
charges, disbursements and other amounts payable in respect of advocacy
services or litigation services including, in particular, expert witness
costs;           “ litigation services ” means any services which it would be
reasonable to expect a person who is exercising, or contemplating exercising,
a right to conduct litigation in relation to proceedings, or contemplated
proceedings, to provide;           “ offender ” means the person in respect of
whom the referral under section 304D(4) or 304E(2) of the 2006 Act is made;
“ the registrar ” means the registrar of the Appeal Court;           “ the
Rules ” means Rules of Court made under  regulation 39 ;           “ sentence
”, in relation to an offence, includes any order made by a court when dealing
with an offender.

### Appeals from the Court Martial under section 304D or 304E of the Armed Forces Act 2006

#### Initiating appeals

##### Application of these Regulations

3

These Regulations apply to appeals against review of sentence, brought under
sections 304D(8) or (9) (review of sentence following offer of assistance) or
304E(7) or (8) (review of sentence following failure to assist) of the 2006
Act.

##### Application for leave to appeal

4

4.1

Leave to appeal to the Appeal Court must not be given except on an application
made by or on behalf of the appellant and lodged, within the period specified
in the Rules, with the registrar.

4.2

The application must—

4.2.a

be in the form specified by the Rules;

4.2.b

specify—

4.2.b.i

the grounds on which leave to appeal is sought, and

4.2.b.ii

such other particulars, if any, as may be specified in the Rules.

4.3

The Appeal Court may extend the period within which an application for leave
to appeal must be lodged, whether that period has expired or not.

4.4

The Rules may provide that an application which is lodged with a person other
than the registrar is to be treated for the purposes of paragraph (1) as
having been lodged with the registrar.

4.5

A person other than the registrar with whom an application is lodged in
accordance with the Rules must—

4.5.a

forward the application to the registrar with as much expedition as
practicable, and

4.5.b

if it appears to the person practicable to do so, and in all the circumstances
expedient, forward the particulars of the application to the registrar before
the registrar receives the application, as will enable the registrar to
prepare a copy of it.

##### Consideration of application by Appeal Court

5

In considering whether or not to give leave to appeal, the Appeal Court must
have regard to any opinion expressed by the Judge Advocate General that the
case is a fit one for appeal, and if any such expression is so made they may,
without more, give leave to appeal.

##### Detention of offender on appeal to Appeal Court

6

6.1

This regulation  applies where all of the following criteria apply—

6.1.a

the Court Martial has substituted a lesser sentence in accordance with section
304D(6) of the 2006 Act (the “decision under appeal”);

6.1.b

the Appeal Court has granted the Director of Service Prosecutions permission
to appeal;

6.1.c

the Director of Service Prosecutions seeks a longer sentence than that
substituted by the Court Martial; and

6.1.d

the effect of the substituted sentence is such that it is likely that the
offender will be liable to be released prior to the conclusion of the appeal
proceedings.

6.2

Where  this regulations  applies, the Appeal Court may make one of the
following orders—

6.2.a

an order providing for the detention of the offender so long as the appeal is
pending;

6.2.b

an order directing that, so long as the appeal is pending, the offender is not
to be released except on bail.

6.3

Where an order under  paragraph (2) (b)  is made, the Appeal Court may grant
the offender bail, from the end of the substituted sentence, pending the
appeal.

6.4

An order under  paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b) , unless the appeal has previously
been disposed of, is to cease to have effect at the expiration of the period
for which the offender would have been liable to be detained but for the
decision under appeal.

6.5

Where an order is made under  this regulation  for the detention of a person
who, but for the decision under appeal, would be liable to be detained in
pursuance of an order or direction under United Kingdom mental health
legislation (see  paragraph (6) )—

6.5.a

the order must authorise that person’s continued detention in pursuance of
that order or direction, and

6.5.b

the relevant provisions of that legislation with respect to persons liable to
be detained under it (including provision as to the renewal of authority for
detention and the removal or discharge of patients) apply accordingly.

6.6

The legislation referred to in  paragraph (5)  above is—

6.6.a

Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983;

6.6.b

the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003 ;

6.6.c

the Mental Health (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 .

6.7

The provisions of the Mental Health Act 1983  with respect to community
treatment orders (within the meaning of that Act) also apply for the purposes
of  paragraph (5) .

6.8

The offender is not liable to be detained again as a result of the decision of
the Appeal Court on appeal if the Appeal Court has made an order within
paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b)  but the order has ceased to have effect by virtue
of  paragraph (4)  or the offender has been released or discharged by virtue
of  paragraph (5) .

#### Disposal of appeal

##### Appeals against review of sentence

7

7.1

Where, on a single occasion, the Court Martial passes two or more sentences on
an offender, an appeal or application for leave to appeal against a review of
any of those sentences is to be treated as an appeal or application in respect
of both or all of them.

7.2

On appeal against a review of sentence the Appeal Court may quash the sentence
to which the appeal relates and pass in substitution for it any sentence that—

7.2.a

it thinks appropriate, and

7.2.b

is a sentence that the Court Martial had power to pass in respect of the
offence.

7.3

But the Appeal Court may not exercise its powers under paragraph (2) to pass a
sentence that exceeds—

7.3.a

if the appeal is made under section 304D(8) or (9) (review of sentence
following offer of assistance) of the 2006 Act in relation to a referral under
section 304D(4) of that Act, the sentence to which the referral relates, or

7.3.b

if the appeal is made under section 304E(7) or (8) (review of sentence
following failure to assist) of the 2006 Act in relation to a referral under
section 304E(2) of that Act, the sentence that the Court Martial would have
passed but for the agreement to give assistance.

##### Terms of sentence passed under 

8

Unless the Appeal Court otherwise directs, a sentence passed by it under
regulation 7  takes effect from the beginning of the day on which the Court
Martial passed sentence.

#### General procedural provisions

##### Right of offender to be present

9

9.1

An offender (whether or not in custody) is entitled to be present at the
hearing of the appeal.

9.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to an offender in custody—

9.2.a

where the appeal is on a ground involving only a question of law,

9.2.b

on an application for leave to appeal, or

9.2.c

on any proceedings preliminary to or incidental to an appeal,

unless the Appeal Court gives the offender leave to be present.

##### Evidence

10

10.1

This regulation applies in relation to an appeal or an application for leave
to appeal.

10.2

In this regulation “ respondent ” includes a person who will be a respondent
if leave to appeal is granted.

10.3

The Appeal Court may—

10.3.a

order the production of any document, exhibit or other thing connected with
the proceedings, the production of which appears to the Appeal Court necessary
for the determination of the case;

10.3.b

order any witness to attend for examination and be examined before the Appeal
Court (whether or not the witness was called in the proceedings from which the
appeal lies);

10.3.c

receive any evidence which was not adduced in the proceedings from which the
appeal lies.

10.4

The power conferred by  paragraph (3) (a)  may be exercised so as to require
the production of any document, exhibit or other thing mentioned in that
paragraph to—

10.4.a

the Appeal Court;

10.4.b

the appellant;

10.4.c

the respondent.

10.5

The Appeal Court, in considering whether to receive any evidence, must have
regard in particular to—

10.5.a

whether the evidence appears to the Appeal Court to be capable of belief;

10.5.b

whether it appears to the Appeal Court that the evidence may afford any ground
for allowing the appeal.

10.6

Paragraph (3) (c)  applies to any evidence of a witness (including the
offender) who is competent but not compellable.

10.7

For the purposes of an appeal or an application for leave to appeal, the
Appeal Court may order the examination of any witness whose attendance may be
required under  paragraph (3) (b)  to be conducted in accordance with the
Rules before—

10.7.a

any judge of the Appeal Court, or

10.7.b

any other person appointed by the Appeal Court for that purpose,

and allow the admission of any depositions so taken as evidence before the
Appeal Court.

##### Power to call for report by member of the Court Martial

11

The Appeal Court may order the taking of such steps as are required to obtain
from any member of the Court Martial in the proceedings from which the appeal
lies, a report giving that member’s opinion on the case or on any point
arising in it, or containing a statement as to any facts of which the
ascertainment appears to the Appeal Court to be material for the purpose of
determining the case.

##### Other powers for facilitating the disposal of appeal

12

12.1

Where any question arising on an appeal involves prolonged examination of
documents or accounts, or any scientific or local investigation, which cannot
in the opinion of the Appeal Court conveniently be conducted before it, the
Appeal Court may order the reference of the question, in the manner prescribed
by the Rules, for inquiry and report to a special commissioner appointed by
it, and act upon the report of the commissioner so far as the Appeal Court
thinks fit to adopt it.

12.2

The Appeal Court may appoint a person with special expert knowledge to act as
assessor to the Appeal Court in any case where it appears to it that such
knowledge is required for the proper determination of the case.

12.3

Regulations made by the Lord Chancellor may provide for remuneration and
travelling and subsistence allowances to be paid out of moneys provided by
Parliament to—

12.3.a

a special commissioner to whom a question is referred under this regulation
for an inquiry and report;

12.3.b

a person appointed as assessor to the Appeal Court.

#### Costs

##### Costs against the Secretary of State

13

13.1

This regulation  applies when the Appeal Court—

13.1.a

allows an appeal brought by an offender, or

13.1.b

dismisses an appeal or application for leave to appeal brought by the Director
of Service Prosecutions.

13.2

Where  this regulation  applies, the Appeal Court may, if it thinks fit,
direct the payment by the Secretary of State of costs to the offender.

13.3

The costs which may under this section be directed to be paid are such sums as
appear to the Appeal Court reasonably sufficient to compensate the offender
for any expenses properly incurred by the offender in the proceedings (in the
Appeal Court and below), subject to  paragraph (4) ,  regulation 14  and
regulations made under  regulation 18 .

13.4

Where the Appeal Court considers that there are circumstances that make it
inappropriate for the offender to recover the whole of the sums mentioned in
paragraph (3) , a direction under  this regulation  must be made for the
payment of such lesser sums as it considers just and reasonable.

13.5

The Appeal Court must fix the sums to be paid by the Secretary of State in the
direction if the Appeal Court considers it appropriate to do so and—

13.5.a

the offender agrees the sums, or

13.5.b

paragraph (4)  applies.

13.6

Where the Appeal Court does not fix the sums to be paid by the Secretary of
State in the direction—

13.6.a

it must describe in the direction any reduction required under paragraph (4),
and

13.6.b

the sums must be fixed by means of a determination made by or on behalf of the
Appeal Court in accordance with procedures specified in regulations made by
the Lord Chancellor under  regulation 18 .

##### Legal costs

14

14.1

The costs which the Appeal Court may direct the Secretary of State to pay
under  regulation 13  do not include legal costs, except where regulations
made by the Lord Chancellor provide otherwise.

14.2

Regulations under this regulation may, in particular, include—

14.2.a

provision for an exception to arise where a determination has been made by a
person specified in the regulations,

14.2.b

provision requiring the Appeal Court, when they direct the payment of a sum
that includes a sum in respect of legal costs, to include a statement to that
effect in the direction, and

14.2.c

provision that the Appeal Court may not direct the payment of a sum in respect
of legal costs exceeding an amount specified in the regulations.

##### Costs against offender

15

15.1

Where the Appeal Court dismisses an appeal or an application for leave to
appeal by the offender it may, if it thinks fit, order the offender to pay to
the Secretary of State the whole or any part of the costs of the appeal,
including the costs of copying or transcribing any documents for the use of
the Appeal Court.

15.2

An order under this section may be enforced—

15.2.a

in the same manner as an order for costs made by the criminal division of the
Court of Appeal, or

15.2.b

if the offender is a member of the regular or reserve forces (as defined by
section 374 of the 2006 Act), by making deductions from pay due to the
offender.

15.3

The methods of enforcement listed in  paragraph (2)  may be used separately or
in combination.

15.4

Any sums which by virtue of  paragraph (2) (a)  above are recovered from a
person by the Secretary of State are to be paid into the Exchequer.

##### Witnesses’ expenses

16

16.1

The Appeal Court may, whether or not it exercises powers under either
regulation 13  or  15 , order the payment out of moneys provided by Parliament
of such sums as appear to the Appeal Court reasonably sufficient to compensate
any person properly attending to give evidence on appeal under these
Regulations or any proceedings preliminary or incidental to the appeal
(whether or not that person gives evidence) for the expense, trouble or loss
of time properly incurred in or incidental to the person’s attendance, subject
to  paragraph (3)  and regulations made under  regulation 18 (1) (d) .

16.2

The amount of any costs to be paid under this regulation shall be ascertained
as soon as practicable by the registrar.

16.3

Sums ordered to be paid out of money provided by Parliament under  paragraph
(1)  may not include sums in respect of expert witness costs unless
regulations made by the Lord Chancellor provide otherwise.

##### Offender’s expenses

17

17.1

Where an offender who is not in custody appears before the Appeal Court either
on the hearing of the appeal or in any preliminary or incidental proceedings,
the Appeal Court may direct the Secretary of State to pay the offender the
expenses of that appearance.

17.2

The expenses which the Appeal Court may direct the Secretary of State to pay
under this regulation do not include legal costs, except where regulations
made by the Lord Chancellor provide otherwise.

17.3

Regulations made under this regulation may, in particular, include—

17.3.a

provision for an exception to arise where a determination has been made by a
person specified in the regulations,

17.3.b

provision requiring the Appeal Court, when they direct the payment of a sum
that includes a sum in respect of legal costs, to include a statement to that
effect in the direction, and

17.3.c

provision that the Appeal Court may not direct the payment of a sum in respect
of legal costs exceeding an amount specified in the regulations.

##### Further provision about costs

18

18.1

The Lord Chancellor may by regulations make provision—

18.1.a

as to the sums that may be directed or ordered to be paid under  regulations
13 ,  16  or  17 , whether by specifying rates or scales or by making other
provision as to the calculation of the sums;

18.1.b

as to the circumstances in which and conditions under which such sums may be
paid or directed or ordered to be paid;

18.1.c

requiring such sums to be fixed having regard to regulations under paragraphs
(a) and (b);

18.1.d

requiring such sums to be calculated in accordance with such regulations
(whether or not that results in the fixing of an amount that the Appeal Court
considers reasonably sufficient to compensate the person concerned);

18.1.e

as to the review of determinations of sums directed to be paid under
regulation 13 .

18.2

Regulations under this regulation may provide that provision as to the
calculation of sums (whether in the form of rates or scales or other
provision) may be determined by the Lord Chancellor with the consent of the
Treasury.

##### Regulations under this Chapter

19

19.1

Regulations made under  regulations 13  to  18  may, in particular—

19.1.a

make different provision in relation to different cases and different classes
of case, including different provision in relation to different expenses,
trouble and loss, different directions and order and different areas;

19.1.b

make different provision in relation to the fixing of a sum in a direction or
order and the fixing of a sum by means of a determination.

19.2

A power to make regulations under  regulations 13  to  18  is exercisable by
statutory instrument.

19.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  regulations 13  to  18
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament, subject to  paragraph (4) .

19.4

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with any other provision)
regulations under  regulations 14 ,  16  or  17  may not be made unless a
draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of,
each House of Parliament.

#### Supplementary

##### Powers under 

20

20.1

The powers specified in  paragraph (2)  may be exercised by any judge of the
Appeal Court in the same manner as they may be exercised by the Appeal Court
and subject to the same provisions.

20.2

The following powers of the Appeal Court are specified for the purposes of
paragraph (1) —

20.2.a

to give leave to appeal;

20.2.b

to extend the period within which an application for leave to appeal must be
lodged;

20.2.c

to allow an offender to be present at any proceedings;

20.2.d

to order witnesses to attend for examination;

20.2.e

to make an order under  regulation 15  for the payment of costs;

20.2.f

to make orders under  regulation 10 (3) (a)  (an order for the production of
any document, etc).

20.3

If a judge refuses an application on the part of a party to the proceedings to
exercise in that party’s favour any of the powers mentioned in  paragraph (2)
other than that under paragraph 2(e) (power to make an order for payment of
costs), that party, upon making a requisition in that behalf within the
prescribed period and in the prescribed form and manner is to be entitled to
have the application determined by the Appeal Court as duly constituted for
the purpose in accordance with section 5 of the 1968 Act.

##### Power which may be exercised by the registrar

21

21.1

The powers specified in  paragraph (2)  may be exercised by the registrar in
the same manner as they may be exercised by the Appeal Court and subject to
the same restrictions.

21.2

The following powers of the Appeal Court are specified for the purposes of
paragraph (1) —

21.2.a

to extend the time within which notice of appeal or of application for leave
to appeal may be given;

21.2.b

to order a witness to attend for examination;

21.2.c

to make orders under  regulation 10 (3) (a)  (an order for the production of
any document, etc).

21.3

If the registrar refuses an application on the part of a party to exercise in
that party’s favour any power specified in  paragraph (2) , that party is to
be entitled to have the application determined by any judge of the Appeal
Court.

##### Procedural directions: powers of single judge and registrar

22

22.1

The power of the Appeal Court to determine an application for procedural
directions may be exercised by—

22.1.a

a judge of the Appeal Court, or

22.1.b

the registrar.

22.2

In this regulation, “ procedural directions ” means directions for the
efficient and effective preparation of—

22.2.a

an application for leave to appeal, or

22.2.b

an appeal

under section 304D or 304E of the 2006 Act.

22.3

A judge of the Appeal Court may give such procedural directions as the judge
thinks fit—

22.3.a

when acting under  paragraph (1) ;

22.3.b

on a reference from the registrar;

22.3.c

on the judge’s own motion.

22.4

The registrar may give such procedural directions as the registrar thinks fit—

22.4.a

when acting under  paragraph (1) ;

22.4.b

on the registrar’s own motion.

##### Appeals against procedural directions

23

23.1

Paragraph (2)  applies if the registrar gives, or refuses to give, procedural
directions within the meaning of  regulation 22 .

23.2

A judge of the Appeal Court may, on an application to the judge under
paragraph (3)—

23.2.a

confirm, set aside or vary any procedural directions given by the registrar;

23.2.b

give such procedural directions as the judge thinks fit.

23.3

An application under this regulation may be made by—

23.3.a

an offender, or

23.3.b

the Director of Service Prosecutions.

##### Provision of record of proceedings of the Court Martial

24

In the case of every appeal or application for leave to appeal to the Appeal
Court against review of sentence, the Judge Advocate General must provide the
registrar, in accordance with the Rules, with a record of the proceedings of
the Court Martial.

##### Defence of appeals

25

It is the duty of the Director of Service Prosecutions to conduct the defence
of any appeal brought by an offender under section 304D (review of sentence
following offer of assistance) or 304E (review of sentence following failure
to assist) of the 2006 Act.

### Appeal from Court Martial Appeal Court to Supreme Court

#### Right of appeal

26

26.1

An appeal lies to the Supreme Court, at the instance of the offender or the
Director of Service Prosecutions, from any decision of the Appeal Court on an
appeal to it under these Regulations, whether given by it when sitting within
or outside the United Kingdom.

26.2

The appeal lies only with the leave of the Appeal Court or the Supreme Court
and such leave is not to be granted unless it is certified by the Appeal Court
that a point of law of general public importance is involved in the decision
and it appears to the Appeal Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be,
that the point is one that ought to be considered by the Supreme Court.

#### Application for leave to appeal

27

27.1

An application to the Appeal Court for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court is
to be made within the period of 28 days beginning with the relevant date.

27.2

In  paragraph (1)  “ the relevant date ” means—

27.2.a

the date of the Appeal Court’s decision, or

27.2.b

if later, the date on which the Appeal Court gives reasons for its decision.

27.3

An application to the Supreme Court is to be made within the period of 28 days
beginning with the date on which the application referred to in paragraph (1)
is refused by the Appeal Court.

27.4

The Supreme Court or the Appeal Court may, upon application made at any time
by the offender or the Director of Service Prosecutions extend the time within
which an application may be made to the Supreme Court or the Appeal Court.

27.5

In this Part—

27.5.a

an appeal must be treated as pending—

27.5.a.i

until any application for leave to appeal is disposed of, and

27.5.a.ii

if leave to appeal is granted, until the appeal is disposed of;

27.5.b

an application for leave to appeal must be treated as disposed of at the
expiration of the time within which it may be made, if it is not made within
that time.

#### Hearing and disposal of appeal

28

For the purpose of disposing of an appeal under this Part, the Supreme Court
may—

28.a

exercise any powers of the Appeal Court, or

28.b

remit the case to the Appeal Court.

#### Detention of offender on appeal to the Supreme Court

29

29.1

The Appeal Court must make one of the orders specified in  paragraph (2)
where—

29.1.a

but for the decision of the Appeal Court, the offender would be liable to be
detained, and

29.1.b

immediately after that decision, the Director of Service Prosecutions is
granted leave to appeal or gives notice of intention to apply for leave to
appeal.

29.2

The orders specified in this paragraph are—

29.2.a

an order providing for the detention of the offender so long as any appeal to
the Supreme Court is pending;

29.2.b

an order directing that, so long as any appeal to the Supreme Court is
pending, the offender is not to be released except on bail;

29.2.c

an order that the offender be released without bail.

29.3

Where an order within  paragraph (2) (b)  is made, the Appeal Court may grant
the offender bail pending the appeal.

29.4

The Appeal Court may make an order under  paragraph (2) (c)  only if it thinks
it is in the interests of justice that the offender should not be liable to be
detained as a result of the decision of the Supreme Court on the appeal.

29.5

An order under  paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b) , unless the appeal has previously
been disposed of, is to cease to have effect at the expiration of the period
for which the offender would have been liable to be detained but for the
decision of the Appeal Court.

29.6

Where an order is made under  this regulation  for the detention of a person
who, but for the decision of the Appeal Court would be liable to be detained
in pursuance of an order or direction under United Kingdom mental health
legislation (see  paragraph (7) )—

29.6.a

the order must authorise that person’s continued detention in pursuance of
that order or direction, and

29.6.b

the relevant provisions of that legislation with respect to persons liable to
be detained under it (including provision as to the renewal of authority for
detention and the removal or discharge of patients) apply accordingly.

29.7

The legislation referred to in  paragraph (6)  above is—

29.7.a

Part III of the Mental Health Act 1983;

29.7.b

the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003;

29.7.c

the Mental Health (Northern Ireland) Order 1986.

29.8

The relevant provisions of the Mental Health Act 1983 with respect to
community treatment orders (within the meaning of that Act) also apply for the
purposes of  paragraph (6) .

29.9

The offender is not liable to be detained again as a result of the decision of
the Supreme Court on appeal if—

29.9.a

the Appeal Court has made an order within  paragraph (2) (c) , or

29.9.b

the Appeal Court has made an order within  paragraph (2) (a)  or  (b)  but the
order has ceased to have effect by virtue of  paragraph (5)  or the offender
has been released or discharged by virtue of  paragraph (6) .

#### Presence of offender at hearing

30

Where the offender is detained pending an appeal from the Appeal Court to the
Supreme Court, the offender is not to be entitled to be present on the hearing
of the appeal or of any proceedings preliminary or incidental to the hearing
unless Supreme Court rules authorise the offender to be present, or the
Supreme Court or Appeal Court gives the offender leave to be present.

#### Effect of appeal on sentence

31

31.1

Any sentence passed on an appeal from the Appeal Court to the Supreme Court in
substitution for another sentence, unless the Supreme Court or the Appeal
Court otherwise direct, is to begin to run from the time when that other
sentence began to run.

31.2

Where under these Regulations a person subject to a sentence is granted bail
pending an appeal, the time during which that person is released on bail is to
be disregarded in computing the term of that person’s sentence.

#### Costs: application to Appeal Court by Director of Service Prosecutions

32

32.1

Where the Appeal Court dismisses an application for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court made by the Director of Service Prosecutions, the Appeal Court
may direct the payment by the Secretary of State of such sums as appear to
them to be reasonably sufficient to compensate the offender for any expenses
properly incurred by the offender in resisting the application, subject to—

32.1.a

paragraph (2) , and

32.1.b

regulations made under  regulation 35 (1) (d) .

32.2

The sums which the Appeal Court may direct the Secretary of State to pay may
not include legal costs, except where regulations made by the Lord Chancellor
provide otherwise.

32.3

Regulations under  paragraph (2)  may, in particular, include—

32.3.a

provision for an exception to arise where a determination has been made by a
person specified in the regulations;

32.3.b

provision requiring the Appeal Court, when it directs the payment of a sum
that includes a sum in respect of legal costs, to include a statement to that
effect in the direction;

32.3.c

provision that the Appeal Court may not direct the payment of a sum in respect
of legal costs exceeding an amount specified in the regulations.

#### Costs: application to Appeal Court by offender

33

Where the Appeal Court dismisses an application for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court made by the offender—

33.a

the Appeal Court may make such order as may be made by the Appeal Court under
regulation 15 (1)  of these Regulations where it dismisses an application for
leave to appeal to the Appeal Court,

33.b

an order made under this regulation may be enforced in the manner described in
regulation 15 (2)  of these Regulations, and

33.c

regulation 15 (3)  of these Regulations applies in relation to any sum
recovered by virtue of  regulation 15 (2) (a)  (as applied by  this regulation
).

#### Costs: application to Supreme Court

34

34.1

Where the Supreme Court dismisses an application for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court and the application was made by the Director of Service
Prosecutions, the Supreme Court may direct the payment by the Secretary of
State of such sums as appear to the Supreme Court to be reasonably sufficient
to compensate the offender for any expenses properly incurred by the offender
in resisting the application.

34.2

Where the Supreme Court dismisses an application for leave to appeal to the
Supreme Court and the application was made by the offender, the Supreme Court
may make such order as may be made by the Appeal Court under  regulation 15
(1)  of these Regulations where it dismisses an application for leave to
appeal to the Appeal Court and any order under  this paragraph  may be
enforced in the manner described in  regulation 15 (2)  of these Regulations.

34.3

Regulation 15 (3)  of these Regulations applies in relation to any sum
recovered by virtue of  paragraph (2) .

34.4

On determining an appeal from the Appeal Court, the Supreme Court may, if it
thinks fit, direct the payment by the Secretary of State of such sums as
appear to the Supreme Court to be reasonably sufficient to compensate the
offender for any expenses properly incurred by the offender in the proceedings
(in the Supreme Court and below) subject to—

34.4.a

paragraph (5) , and

34.4.b

regulations made under  regulation 35 (1) (d) .

34.5

The costs which the Supreme Court may direct the Secretary of State to pay do
not include legal costs incurred in the proceedings in a court below it,
except where regulations made by the Lord Chancellor provide otherwise.

34.6

Regulations under  paragraph (5)  may, in particular, include—

34.6.a

provision for an exception to arise where a determination has been made by a
person specified in the Regulations;

34.6.b

provision requiring the Supreme Court, when it directs the payment of a sum
that includes a sum in respect of legal costs, to include a statement to that
effect in the direction;

34.6.c

provision that the Supreme Court may not direct the payment of a sum in
respect of legal costs exceeding an amount specified in the regulations.

34.7

Except as provided by  regulations 32 ,  33  and  this regulation , no costs
are to be allowed on the hearing or determination of an appeal from the Appeal
Court to the Supreme Court or of any proceedings preliminary or incidental to
such an appeal.

#### Further provision about costs

35

35.1

The Lord Chancellor may by regulations make provision—

35.1.a

as to the sums that may be directed to be paid under  regulation 32  or  34
(4) , whether by specifying rates or scales or by making such other provision
as to the calculation of the sums;

35.1.b

as to the circumstances in which, and conditions under which, such sums may be
paid or directed to be paid;

35.1.c

requiring such sums to be fixed having regard to regulations under paragraphs
(a) and (b);

35.1.d

requiring such sums to be calculated in accordance with such regulations
(whether or not that results in the fixing of an amount that the Appeal Court
considers reasonable sufficient to compensate the person concerned).

35.2

The power under  paragraph (1) (d)  may not be exercised in respect of sums
ordered by the Supreme Court to be paid in respect of expenses incurred in
proceedings before that court.

35.3

Regulations made under this regulation may provide that provision as to the
calculation of sums (whether in the form of rates or scales or other
provision) may be determined by the Lord Chancellor with consent of the
Treasury.

#### Regulations under this Part

36

36.1

Regulations made under  regulations 32 ,  34  and  35  may, in particular,
make different provision in relation to different cases and different classes
of case, including different provision in relation to different expenses,
trouble and loss, different directions and orders and different areas.

36.2

A power to make regulations in this Part is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

36.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations made under  this Part  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament, subject to paragraph (4).

36.4

Regulations made under regulations 32 or 34 (whether alone or with other
provision) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

#### Powers under this Part which are exercisable by a single judge

37

37.1

The following powers of the Appeal Court under this Part may be exercised by
any judge of the Appeal Court—

37.1.a

to extend the time limit for making an application for leave to appeal;

37.1.b

to make an order for or in relation to bail;

37.1.c

to give leave to be present at the hearing of any proceedings preliminary or
incidental to an appeal.

37.2

Where a single judge refuses an application to exercise any of the powers in
paragraph (1) , the applicant is entitled to have the application determined
by the Appeal Court.

### Miscellaneous, general and amendments

#### Appeals on behalf of deceased persons

38

38.1

This regulation applies where a person (“ P ”) has died.

38.2

Any relevant appeal which might have been begun by P had P remained alive may
be begun by a person approved by the Appeal Court.

38.3

Any further step which might have been taken by P in connection with any
relevant appeal if P were alive may be taken by a person approved by the
Appeal Court.

38.4

In this regulation “ relevant appeal ” means—

38.4.a

an appeal under section 304D(8) or (9) (review of sentence following offer of
assistance) or 304E(7) or (8)(review of sentence following failure to assist)
of the 2006 Act,

38.4.b

an appeal under  regulation 26  of these regulations from any decision of the
Appeal Court on an appeal under any of those sections.

38.5

Approval for the purposes of this regulation may only be given to—

38.5.a

the widow, widower or surviving civil partner of P,

38.5.b

a personal representative of P, or

38.5.c

any other person appearing to the Appeal Court to have, by reason of a family
or similar relationship with P, a substantial financial or other interest in
the determination of a relevant appeal relating to P.

38.6

Except in the case of an appeal begun the Director of Service Prosecutions, an
application for such approval may not be made after the end of the period of
one year beginning with the date of death.

38.7

Where this regulation applies, any reference in these regulations to the
offender is to be, where appropriate, construed as including a reference to
the person approved under this regulation.

38.8

The power of the Appeal Court to approve a person under this section may be
exercised by any judge of the Appeal Court in the same manner as by the Appeal
Court and subject to the same provisions: but if the judge refuses the
application, the applicant is to be entitled to have the application
determined by the Appeal Court.

38.9

In  paragraph (5) (b) , “ personal representative ” means—

38.9.a

for England and Wales, a person who is a personal representative within the
meaning of section 55(1)(xi) of the Administration of Estates Act 1925 ,

38.9.b

for Scotland, an executor confirmed to the estate of P, or

38.9.c

for Northern Ireland, a person who is one of the personal representatives
within the meaning of the Administration of Estates Act (Northern Ireland)
1955 .

#### Rules of Court

39

39.1

Rules of Court made in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Constitutional Reform Act 2005  may provide for regulating the procedure and
practice to be followed in the Appeal Court in connection with these
Regulations and for any other matters by which these Regulations are expressed
to be subjects for rules of court.

39.2

Rules of Court made for the purposes of any provision of these Regulations may
make different provision in relation to different classes of cases and may
provide for any incidental or supplementary matters for which it appears to
the person making the rules of court to be necessary or expedient for the
purposes of that provision to provide.

#### Duties of registrar with respect to appeals etc.

40

40.1

The registrar is to take all necessary steps for obtaining the determination
of an appeal or application under these Regulations and must obtain and lay
before the Appeal Court in proper form all documents, exhibits and other
things relating to the proceedings in the Court Martial which appear necessary
for the proper determination of the appeal or application.

40.2

The registrar must furnish the necessary forms and instructions relating to an
application for leave to appeal under these Regulations to any person who
demands them, to persons in charge of places where persons sentenced by the
Court Martial may lawfully be confined for the purposes of serving their
sentences and to such other persons as the registrar thinks fit.

40.3

Every person in charge of such place as is referred to in paragraph (2) above
is to ensure the mentioned forms and instructions are placed at the disposal
of persons confined in that place who wish to apply for leave to appeal to the
Appeal Court or from the Appeal Court to the Supreme Court.

#### Removal of prisoners

41

Section 52 of the 1968 Act applies in respect of appeals under these
Regulations as it applies in respect of appeals under Parts 2 and Part 3 of
the 1968 Act. 

#### Modification for protected prisoners of war

42

As respects a protected prisoner of war (as defined by section 7(1) of the
Geneva Conventions Act 1957 ), these Regulations apply in relation to a
prisoner of war court-martial constituted under a Royal Warrant as it applies
in relation to the Court Martial, subject to such modifications as may be
contained in the Royal Warrant.

#### Amendment of the Court Martial Appeal Court (Bail) Order 2009

43

In the Court Martial Appeal Court (Bail) Order 2009 , in Article 2, for the
definition of “appeal” substitute—

      “ appeal ” means an appeal under—         section 8(1) of the Court
Martial Appeals Act 1968, or           section 304D or 304E of the Armed
Forces Act 2006,         and  “appellant”  has a corresponding meaning;

.

#### Amendment of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional Provisions etc) Order 2009

44

44.1

The Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional Provisions etc) Order 2009  is amended
as follows.

44.2

After Part 14 insert—

########## Review of sentence proceedings

########### Review of sentence proceedings

44.2.106A

44.2.106A.1

Part 12A of the AFA 2006 applies where a court-martial has passed a sentence
as it applies where a Court Martial has passed a sentence with the following
modifications.

44.2.106A.2

Where it applies to a sentence passed by a court-martial, Part 12A of the AFA
2006 applies as if—

44.2.106A.2.a

in section 304A(2)(b), “ service offence ” includes an SDA offence;

44.2.106A.2.b

in section 304B(3), “ service offence ” includes an SDA offence;

44.2.106A.2.c

in section 304C(1)(a), “ service offence ” includes an SDA offence;

44.2.106A.2.d

in section 304D—

44.2.106A.2.d.i

in paragraph (1)—

44.2.106A.2.d.i.aa

“ Court Martial ” includes court-martial;

44.2.106A.2.d.i.bb

“ service offence ” includes SDA offence;

44.2.106A.2.d.i.cc

“is not fixed by law or, if it is” is substituted by “was not fixed by law or,
if it was”;

44.2.106A.2.d.ii

in paragraph (4), “back” is omitted;

44.2.106A.2.d.iii

in paragraph (5), the second occurrence of “ Court Martial ” includes court-
martial;

44.2.106A.2.e

in section 304E—

44.2.106A.2.e.i

in paragraph (1)—

44.2.106A.2.e.i.aa

“ service offence ” includes an SDA offence;

44.2.106A.2.e.i.bb

“is not fixed by law or, if it is” is substituted by “was not fixed by law or,
if it was”;

44.2.106A.2.e.ii

in paragraph (2), “back” is omitted;

44.2.106A.2.e.iii

in paragraph (3), the second occurrence of “ Court Martial ” includes court-
martial.

.

44.3

After Part 15, insert—

########## Appeals against review of sentence

########### Appeals against review of sentence

44.3.130A

44.3.130A.1

This article applies where the Court Martial has exercised its powers under
Section 304D or 304E of AFA 2006, as applied by article 106A, to substitute a
new sentence in place of one passed by a court-martial.

44.3.130A.2

Where this article applies, the Armed Forces (Appeals Against Review of
Sentence) Regulations 2024 apply subject to the following modifications—

44.3.130A.2.a

in regulations 7(1) and (2)(b), 11, 24 and 40, “ Court Martial ” includes
“court-martial”;

44.3.130A.2.b

in regulation 8, for “Court Martial” substitute  “court-martial” .

.

      Andrew Murrison   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Ministry of
Defence     7th May 2024

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for procedures to be followed before the
Court Martial Appeal Court in the case of appeals against review of sentence
under sections 304D (review of sentence following offer of assistance) and
304E (review of sentence following failure to assist) of the Armed Forces Act
2006 (c. 52)  (the “ 2006 Act ”). Sections 304D and 304E were inserted into
the 2006 Act by the Armed Forces Act  2016 (c. 21) .

  Part 2 of these Regulations sets out the procedure to be followed before the
Court Martial Appeal Court in appeals against review of sentence. Chapter 1
makes provision regarding the initiation of such appeals, including the
requirement for leave to appeal (regulation 3). Chapter 2 makes provision
regarding the disposal of appeals. Chapter 3 makes provision for general
procedural matters, such as the right of the offender to be present
(regulation 9), and the production of evidence (regulation 10). Chapter 4
makes provision regarding costs. Chapter 5 makes supplementary provision and
governs issues such as the powers that may be exercised by a single judge
(regulation 20) or the registrar (regulation 21).

  Part 3 of these Regulations makes provision for appeals from the Court
Martial Appeal Court to the Supreme Court, regarding review of sentence under
sections 304D or 304E of the 2006 Act. Regulation 26 makes provision for a
right of appeal to the Supreme Court, while regulation 27 governs applications
for leave to appeal. This Part also makes provision with regard to matters
such as the presence of the offender at hearings (regulation 30) and costs
(regulations 32 to 36).

  Part 4 makes miscellaneous provision. It makes provisions governing appeals
in the event that the person to whom the proceeding relate is deceased
(regulation 38). It also makes provision regarding rules of court (regulation
39) and the duties of the registrar (regulation 40). This Part also makes
transitional provision, amending the Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional
Provisions etc) Order 2009 ( S.I. 2009/1059 ).

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

