Title: The Social Security Benefits Up-rating Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-09
Description: These Regulations make provisions necessary to give full effect to the 2024 Up-rating and are consequential on the Social Security Benefits Up-rating Order (Northern Ireland) 2024 (the “Up-rating Order”). These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5, to the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social Security Advisory Committee.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/76

## The Social Security Benefits Up-rating Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Regulations made by the Department for Communities and laid before the
Assembly under section 51(3) of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 for
approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months from the date of
their coming into operation

    Social Security

  Made   25th March 2024

  Coming into operation   8th April 2024

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 70(8), 113(1)(a) and 171(1), (3)
and (4) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992 , sections 5(1)(q), 135(3) and 165(1), (4) and (5) of the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992  and now vested in it ,
sections 20(1) and 51(6) of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015  and
Article 48(1) and (5) of, and paragraphs 1(1) and 4(2)(d) of Schedule 6 to,
the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 .           These Regulations
contain provisions in consequence of an order under sections 132 and 132A of
the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security Benefits Up-rating
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 8th April
2024.

1.2

In these Regulations “ the Up-rating Order ” means the Social Security
Benefits Up-rating Order (Northern Ireland) 2024 .

1.3

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Exceptions relating to payment of additional benefit by virtue of the Up-rating Order

2

Section 135(3) of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act
1992 (effect of alteration of rates of benefit under Parts II to V of the
Contributions and Benefits Act) shall not apply if a question arises as to
either—

2.a

the weekly rate at which the benefit is payable by virtue of the Up-rating
Order; or

2.b

whether the conditions for receipt of the benefit at the altered rate are
satisfied,

until that question has been determined in accordance with the provisions of
the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 .

### Persons not ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland

3

Regulation 5 of the Social Security Benefit (Persons Abroad) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1978  (application of disqualification in respect of up-
rating of benefit) and regulation 21 of the State Pension Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2015  (entitlement to state pension for overseas residents)
shall apply to any additional benefit payable by virtue of the Up-rating Order
and to any up-rating increase as defined in section 22(1) of the Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland) 2015  respectively.

### Amendment of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations

4

In regulation 8(1) of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1976  (circumstances in which a person is or is not to be
treated as gainfully employed) for “£139” substitute  “£151” .

### Amendment of the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations

5

In paragraph 4(2A) of Schedule 8A to the Social Security (Claims and Payments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  (deductions from benefits and direct
payment to third parties) for “£29.75”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“£31.75” .

### Revocation

6

The Social Security (2023 Benefits Up-rating) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2024  are revoked.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 25th March
2024 (L.S.) Patrick Rooney A senior officer of the Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provisions necessary to give full effect to the 2024
Up-rating and are consequential on the Social Security Benefits Up-rating
Order (Northern Ireland) 2024 (the “ Up-rating Order ”). These Regulations
make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision corresponding to provision
contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by virtue of section 149(3) of,
and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5, to the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the requirement of section
149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social Security Advisory
Committee.

  Regulation 2 provides that where a question has arisen about the effect of
the Up-rating Order on a benefit already in payment, the altered rates will
not apply until that question is determined.

  Regulation 3 applies the provisions of regulation 5 of the Social Security
Benefit (Persons Abroad) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978 and regulation 21
of the State Pension Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 so as to restrict the
application of increases specified in the Up-rating Order in cases where the
beneficiary is not ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland.

  Regulation 4 increases from £139 to £151 the amount which a person eligible
for payment of Carer’s Allowance can earn in the immediately preceding week
without being deemed to be gainfully employed and, therefore, losing their
entitlement to Carer’s Allowance. The Social Security (Carer’s Allowance)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002 replace references to “Invalid
Care Allowance” with references to “Carer’s Allowance” in certain legislative
provisions, but “Invalid Care Allowance” remains part of the title of the
Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1976
for statutory purposes.

  Regulation 5 increases from £29.75 to £31.75 the amount allowed for personal
expenses for a person in certain accommodation, where that person’s benefit is
paid to the accommodation provider.

  Regulation 6 revokes the Social Security (2023 Benefits Up-rating)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

