Title: The Pensions Increase (Review) Order 2024
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: Under section 59 of the Social Security and Pensions Act 1975 (c. 60) (increase of official pensions) where the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, under section 151(1) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 (c. 5), directs that the sums in section 150(1)(c) of the 1992 Act are to be increased by a specified percentage, the Treasury shall provide by order for the increase in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase) Act 1971 (c. 56) defines certain terms, sets out when a pension “begins” and how the increase applies to lump sums.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/331

## The Pensions Increase (Review) Order 2024

    PENSIONS

  Made   4th March 2024

  Laid before Parliament   8th March 2024

  Coming into force   8th April 2024

      The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions has, by virtue of section
151 of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 , given a direction  that
the sums mentioned in section 150(1)(c) of that Act are to be increased by a
specified percentage.       The Treasury make the following Order in exercise
of the powers conferred by section 59(1), (2), (5) and (5ZA) of the Social
Security Pensions Act 1975  and now vested in them .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Pensions Increase (Review) Order 2024 and comes
into force on 8th April 2024.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

                       [Note: There was an error in the making of this Order.
As a result, further provision which supersedes the matters set out in this
Order is made in the Pensions Increase (Review) (No. 2) Order 2024 (  S.I.
2024/372 ).]                       .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order, “ the Act ” means the Social Security Pensions Act 1975.

2.2

In this Order, any reference to a pension is a reference to a pension which
began before 8th April 2024 .

### Pension increase: annual rate and lump sums

3

3.1

This article applies to an official pension if—

3.1.a

a qualifying condition is satisfied; or

3.1.b

the pension is—

3.1.b.i

a derivative pension;

3.1.b.ii

a substituted pension; or

3.1.b.iii

a relevant injury pension.

3.2

In relation to any period on or after 8th April 2024, the pension authority
may increase the annual rate  of the pension—

3.2.a

for a pension which began before 10th April 2023, by 6.7 per cent;

3.2.b

for a pension which began on or after 10th April 2023, by 6.7 per cent
multiplied by—

      A   12           where A is the number of complete months in the period
between the beginning date of the pension and 8th April 2024.

3.3

In relation to a lump sum which is payable on or after 10th April 2023 but
before 8th April 2024, the pension authority may increase the lump sum by 6.7
per cent multiplied by—

      A   12           where A is the number of complete months in the period
between the beginning date of the lump sum (or, if later, 10th April 2023) and
the date on which it becomes payable.

### Reductions in respect of guaranteed minimum pensions

4

4.1

Where—

4.1.a

a person is entitled to an increase in a guaranteed minimum pension on 8th
April 2024; and

4.1.b

entitlement to that guaranteed minimum pension arises from an employment from
which (either directly, or indirectly by virtue of the payment of a transfer
credit) entitlement to the official pension also arises;

the amount by reference to which any increase is calculated for the purposes
of article 3(2) must be reduced by an amount equal to the rate of the
guaranteed minimum pension unless the Treasury otherwise direct in accordance
with the provision of section 59A of the Act .

4.2

Where on the death of a deceased spouse or civil partner a person becomes
entitled to a guaranteed minimum pension in relation to a surviving spouse’s
pension or a surviving civil partner’s pension, the amount by reference to
which any increase is calculated for the purposes of article 3(2) must be
reduced in accordance with section 59(5ZA) of the Act.

      Scott Mann   Amanda Milling   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty's Treasury     4th March 2024

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Under section 59 of the Social Security and Pensions Act  1975 (c. 60)
(increase of official pensions) where the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions, under section 151(1) of the Social Security Administration Act  1992
(c. 5) , directs that the sums in section 150(1)(c) of the 1992 Act are to be
increased by a specified percentage, the Treasury shall provide by order for
the increase in the rates of public service pensions. The Pensions (Increase)
Act  1971 (c. 56)  defines certain terms, sets out when a pension “begins” and
how the increase applies to lump sums.

  The increase to be applied is the same as the percentage by which the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions has, by direction under the Social
Security Administration Act 1992, increased the additional pension
entitlements accruing to employees in respect of earnings for service after
5th April 1978.

  For pensions which began before 10th April 2023 the increase is 6.7 per
cent. For pensions which began on or after the 10th April 2023 the increases
(following the calculation set out in article 3) are as follows—

        Pensions beginning Pensions increase   10th April 2023 to 23rd April
2023 6.7% 24th April 2023 to 23rd May 2023 6.14% 24th May 2023 to 23rd June
2023 5.58% 24th June 2023 to 23rd July 2023 5.03% 24th July 2023 to 23rd
August 2023 4.47% 24th August 2023 to 23rd September 2023 3.91% 24th September
2023 to 23rd October 2023 3.35% 24th October 2023 to 23rd November 2023 2.79%
24th November 2023 to 23rd December 2023 2.23% 24th December 2023 to 23rd
January 2024 1.68% 24th January 2024 to 23rd February 2024 1.12% 24th February
2024 to 23rd March 2024 0.56%

  Article 3(3) of the Order provides for increases on certain deferred lump
sums which become payable on or after 10th April 2023 and before 8th April
2024.

  The Order also makes provision for the amount by reference to which any
increase in the rate of an official pension is to be calculated, to be reduced
by the amount equal to the rate of any guaranteed minimum pension entitlement
deriving from the employment which gives rise to the official pension.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

