Title: The Period Products (Department for Infrastructure Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-10
Description: These Regulations are made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022. They specify the public service bodies within the functions of the Department for Infrastructure that are subject to the duty to ensure that period products are obtainable free of charge by persons on the premises who need to use them. They provide, for the purposes of the Act, descriptions of the premises to be treated as premises of a specified public service body and of persons to be treated as in those premises.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/122

## The Period Products (Department for Infrastructure Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Period Products (free Provision)

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   28th May 2024

  Coming into operation   29th May 2024

      The Department for Infrastructure  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 2(1), (7)(a) and (b) and (13) of
the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022  and after
consultation in accordance with section 2(8) of that Act.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Period Products (Department for
Infrastructure Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2024 and come into operation on 29 th  May 2024.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ administrative accommodation ” means accommodation leased or owned by
a specified public service body for the purpose of effecting its statutory
functions;           “ NITHC ” means the Northern Ireland Transport Holding
Company as established under the Transport Act (Northern Ireland) 1967 ;
“ NIW ” means the Northern Ireland Water Group established under the
provisions of the Companies Act 2006, and appointed by the Department as a
water and sewerage undertaker under the Water and Sewerage Services (Northern
Ireland) Order 2006 ;           “ service users ” means persons who are in the
premises of a specified public service body to make use of the services to the
public provided there by the specified public service body;           “
specified public service body ” means the bodies listed in the Schedule;
“ staff ” means employees or agency workers in the premises of a specified
public service body;           “ the Act ” means the Period Products (Free
Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 ; and           “ visitors ” means
persons with legitimate reason for being in the premises of a specified public
service body, such as attending meetings or events or providing a function or
service.

### Specified public service bodies

3

The bodies listed in this Schedule are specified as public service bodies to
which the duty in section 2(1) of the Act applies.

### Description of premises and persons

4

For the purposes of section 2(3) of this Act—

4.a

the descriptions of premises listed in column 2 of the Table below are to be
treated as being premises of the public service body listed in column 1; and

4.b

the description of persons listed in column 3 of the Table below are to be
treated as being in the premises of the specified public body listed at column
1.

  Table       Column 1 – Specified Public Service Body Column 2 – Descriptions
of Premises Column 3 – Descriptions of persons in premises   (a) (i) NITHC All
staffed buildings used for the delivery of services to the public and which
are normally open to the public (i) service users (ii) staff (iii) visitors
(a) (ii) NITHC NITHC administrative accommodation (i) staff (ii) visitors (b)
(i) NIW All staffed buildings used for the delivery of services to the public
and which are normally open to the public (i) service users (ii) staff (iii)
visitors (b) (ii) NIW NIW administrative accommodation (i) staff (ii) visitors

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 28
th  May 2024         Kiera Lloyd   A senior officer of the   Department

  Specified Public Service Bodies

Regulation 3

  NITHC ; and

  NIW

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free
Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 . They specify the public service
bodies within the functions of the Department for Infrastructure that are
subject to the duty to ensure that period products are obtainable free of
charge by persons on the premises who need to use them. They provide, for the
purposes of the Act, descriptions of the premises to be treated as premises of
a specified public service body and of persons to be treated as in those
premises.

