Title: The Town and Country Planning (Former RAF Scampton) (Accommodation for Asylum-Seekers etc.) Special Development Order 2024
Date: 2024-10-15
Description: This Order grants temporary planning permission for development at the former RAF Scampton relating to the provision of accommodation and other forms of support to single adult male asylum-seekers and failed asylum-seekers.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/412

## The Town and Country Planning (Former RAF Scampton) (Accommodation for Asylum-Seekers etc.) Special Development Order 2024

    Town And Country Planning, England

  Made   20th March 2024

  Laid before Parliament   21st March 2024

  Coming into force   11th April 2024

      The Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities makes
this Order in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 59(1), (2)(a) and
(3)(b) and 60(1), (1A) and (2A) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Town and Country Planning (Former RAF Scampton)
(Accommodation for Asylum-Seekers etc.) Special Development Order 2024.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 11th April 2024.

1.3

This Order extends to England and Wales.

1.4

This Order applies to the land at Former RAF Scampton, near Lincoln,
Lincolnshire LN1 2ST, shown bounded externally by the outer edge of a bold red
line on the Map (the “Order land”).

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

      “ the 2015 Order ” means the Town and Country (General Permitted
Development) (England) Order 2015 ;           “ adjoining owner or occupier ”
means any owner or occupier of any land adjoining the Order land;           “
approved document ” means any document listed in Schedule 1 (documents
submitted by the Home Secretary), or any document in respect of which the
Secretary of State has given subsequent approval, and where the Secretary of
State—         gives subsequent approval in respect of a replacement for an
approved document, the approved document is the document in respect of which
such subsequent approval was most recently given;           gives variation
approval in relation to an approved document, the approved document is the
version of that document that reflects the cumulative effect of all the
amendments to it in respect of which the Secretary of State has given such
approval,         and if both subsequent approval as described in paragraph
(a) and variation approval have been given in relation to an approved
document, the approved document is the document or version that reflects the
cumulative effect of all approvals, of either kind, that have been given, and
references to any particular approved document are to be construed according
to the same principles;           “ authorised development ” has the meaning
given in article 4(1) (grant of temporary planning permission);           “
CEMP ” means a construction and environmental management plan submitted and
approved in accordance with condition 15 (construction and environmental
management plan);           “ construction ” includes installation, provision,
operation, maintenance, improvement or alteration, decommissioning or removal
(demolition), or any other building or engineering operations, and “
constructed ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ contamination expert
” means a person—         with suitable knowledge, skills and experience in
relation to the assessment and mitigation of relevant contamination risks, and
who is a registered Specialist in Land Condition , or holds another
qualification indicating a similar level of expertise in relation to such
risks;                 “ existing ” means, in relation to anything on the
Order land, that it was present on the Order land on 10th April 2024;
“ heritage assets ” means the following buildings or structures at Former RAF
Scampton—         the four “C-type” aircraft hangars;           the Officers’
Mess;           the grave of Wing Commander Guy Gibson’s dog;
“ the Home Secretary ” means the Secretary of State for the Home Department;
“ the Map ” means the document numbered Figure 2 in Schedule 1;           “
Multi-Agency Forum ” means the group to be established by the Home Secretary
under condition 27 (Multi-Agency Forum);           “ OMP ” means an
operational management plan submitted and approved in accordance with sub-
paragraph (1) of condition 21 (OMP: establishment and review);           “
Order land ” has the meaning given in article 1(4);           “ reinstatement
works ” means development  for which planning permission is granted by article
4(1)(c);           “ relevant contamination risk ” means a risk to human
health or the environment posed by hazardous substances including gases,
vapour concentrations and radiological contamination in, on, under or over the
Order land;           “ relevant duty ” means a duty imposed by an enactment
(other than this Order) that applies to the Home Secretary when the Home
Secretary carries out relevant functions;           “ relevant functions ”
means providing, or arranging for the provision of, accommodation and support
under section 4 (accommodation), section 95 (persons for whom support may be
provided) or section 98 (temporary support) of the Immigration and Asylum Act
1999 ;           “ relevant ordnance risk ” means a risk to human health or
the environment associated with the presence of unexploded ordnance in, on,
under or over the Order land;           “ relevant person ” means a person
who—         is male,           is at least 18 years old and no more than 64
years old,           has no dependants within the meaning of section 94(1) of
the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (interpretation of Part VI) , and
is—         an asylum-seeker within the meaning of that section, or
otherwise receiving accommodation or support under section 4 of that Act;
“ relevant risk ” means a relevant contamination risk or a relevant ordnance
risk;           “ remedial step ” means any step, the taking of which by the
Home Secretary secures compliance with a duty imposed on the Home Secretary,
by an enactment (other than this Order) or a rule of common law, to prevent or
mitigate a relevant risk;           “ resident service user ” means a service
user who is accommodated on the Order land;           “ the Secretary of State
” means, except in the definition of “Home Secretary”, the Secretary of State
for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities;           “ service user ” means a
person in respect of whom the Home Secretary carries out relevant functions;
“ site operator ” means the person designated as such under condition 1 (site
operator);           “ subsequent approval ” means the Secretary of State’s
approval, after the date on which this Order is made, in respect of a plan,
report, scheme or programme that this Order requires or permits the Home
Secretary to submit for the Secretary of State’s approval, where—         the
plan, report, scheme or programme is submitted for such approval for the first
time, or           approval is sought in respect of a replacement for such a
plan, report, scheme or programme under sub-paragraph (3) of condition 2
(approved documents);                 “ unsuitability criterion ” means any of
the criteria specified, on pages 17 to 22 of the Home Office publication
“Allocation of asylum accommodation policy”, version 11.0, dated 12th February
2024 , as making a person potentially unsuitable (either generally, or in
certain circumstances) to be accommodated on an “ex-MoD site”, or to share a
room;           “ variation approval ” means the Secretary of State’s approval
in respect of an amendment, proposed by the Home Secretary, to the details of
a matter set out in an approved document.

2.2

A reference in this Order to a numbered “condition” is to the paragraph that
is so numbered in Schedule 3 (conditions subject to which planning permission
is granted).

2.3

A reference in this Order to the height of a building or other structure is a
reference to its height when measured from ground level, and in this paragraph
“ ground level ” means—

2.3.a

the level of the surface of the ground adjoining the building or structure;

2.3.b

if the level of the surface of the ground where the building or structure is
situated or is to be situated is not uniform, the level of the highest part of
the surface of the ground adjacent to it.

### Application of the 2015 Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order, the 2015 Order applies to the Order
land.

3.2

Planning permission granted by article 3(1) of the 2015 Order (permitted
development) does not apply to development carried out in, on, under or over
the Order land during the period beginning with 11th April 2024 and ending
with 10th October 2027, unless it is—

3.2.a

development of a class that is described as permitted development in Part 13
(water and sewerage), Part 15 (power related development) or Part 16
(communications) of Schedule 2 to the 2015 Order (permitted development
rights);

3.2.b

the replacement of a window or door as part of refurbishment of a building or
structure.

3.3

Planning permission granted by article 3(1) of the 2015 Order for development
of a type specified in Schedule 2 to this Order that was carried out on or
before 10th April 2024—

3.3.a

ceases to apply on 11th April 2024;

3.3.b

applies again on and from 11th April 2027, but only if, and to the extent
that, the planning permission granted for it by article 3(1) of the 2015 Order
would not, but for this Order, have ceased before that date.

### Grant of temporary planning permission

4

4.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order, planning permission is granted for—

4.1.a

the making of any material change in the use of any buildings or other land of
a type specified in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2;

4.1.b

the carrying out of building, engineering or other operations of a type
specified in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2;

4.1.c

development comprised in—

4.1.c.i

the cessation, decommissioning or removal of development within sub-paragraph
(a) or (b);

4.1.c.ii

the reversion of the Order land and any buildings in, on, under or over it to
their previous lawful use

(“authorised development”).

4.2

The planning permission granted by paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

is subject to—

4.2.a.i

the conditions specified in Schedule 3;

4.2.a.ii

such additional conditions as the Secretary of State may impose when giving
subsequent approval or variation approval under article 6 (authorised
development: decisions of the Secretary of State);

4.2.b

includes, as regards paragraphs (1)(a) and (b), planning permission for the
retention and continued operation, after 10th April 2024, of development of a
type specified in Schedule 2 that was first carried out on or before 10th
April 2024 under planning permission granted by article 3(1) of the 2015
Order;

4.2.c

does not include planning permission for any material change in use, or
building, engineering or other operations to take place, in respect of any
heritage asset, other than the works that are to be undertaken by virtue of
sub-paragraph (2)(b) of condition 10 (fencing) or sub-paragraph (2) of
condition 12 (heritage management scheme).

4.3

The conditions referred to in paragraph (2)(a) apply to development within
paragraph (2)(b) if and to the extent that it is retained and continues to
operate after 10th April 2024, but they do not apply as regards its
construction before that date.

4.4

Authorised development may only be carried out by or on behalf of the Home
Secretary.

4.5

The planning permission granted by paragraph (1)(a) and (b) ceases at the end
of 10th April 2027, and any development within those paragraphs must cease by
that time.

4.6

The planning permission granted by paragraph (1)(c) ceases at, and
reinstatement works must be completed by, the end of 10th October 2027.

### Subsequent approval and variation approval

5

5.1

A replacement for an approved document has no effect for the purposes of this
Order unless the Home Secretary has submitted it for subsequent approval under
sub-paragraph (3) of condition 2, and the Secretary of State has given
subsequent approval in respect of the replacement.

5.2

An amendment to an approved document has no effect for the purposes of this
Order unless the Home Secretary has sought, and the Secretary of State has
given, variation approval in respect of that amendment.

5.3

Where the Home Secretary submits a document for subsequent approval or seeks
variation approval, the Home Secretary must make an application—

5.3.a

to the Secretary of State in writing, signed by the site operator on behalf of
the Home Secretary;

5.3.b

including a copy of any document that it is proposed should be an approved
document following the giving of subsequent approval or variation approval as
requested.

5.4

No subsequent approval or variation approval may be sought or given in respect
of any replacement of, or amendment to, the Map.

### Authorised development: decisions of the Secretary of State

6

6.1

When giving or declining to give subsequent approval or variation approval,
the Secretary of State must give the Home Secretary a written notice of the
Secretary of State’s decision on the application made under article 5(3)
(subsequent approval and variation approval).

6.2

The Secretary of State may give subsequent approval or variation approval
either unconditionally, or subject to conditions set out in a notice given
under paragraph (1).

6.3

The Secretary of State must not give—

6.3.a

subsequent approval or variation approval;

6.3.b

any other consent or agreement provided for under this Order or an approved
document in relation to the authorised development

(each a “relevant approval”), unless the condition specified in paragraph (4)
or the condition specified in paragraph (5) is satisfied.

6.4

The condition is that the Secretary of State has concluded that—

6.4.a

the giving of the relevant approval will not result in the authorised
development having any impacts that are materially new, or materially
different, as compared with the impacts that the Secretary of State took into
account before making this Order,

6.4.b

the authorised development will not, as a result of the relevant approval, be
EIA development as defined in regulation 2(1) of the Town and Country Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations 2017  (the “ 2017 Regulations ”),
and

6.4.c

development carried out as a result of the relevant approval will not
otherwise give rise to any significant environmental effect.

6.5

The condition is that the Secretary of State has directed under regulation
63(1) of the 2017 Regulations (exemptions) that the authorised development is
exempt from the requirements of those Regulations.

### Documents to be made available by the Secretary of State

7

7.1

This paragraph applies to—

7.1.a

approved documents;

7.1.b

notices given under article 6(1).

7.2

Subject to paragraph (4), the Secretary of State must arrange for a copy of
each document to which paragraph (1) applies to be made available for
inspection by the public—

7.2.a

on a website maintained by or on behalf of the Secretary of State ;

7.2.b

in person, upon giving reasonable notice to the Department for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities, at 2 Marsham Street, London SW1P 4DF.

7.3

This paragraph applies to information contained in a document to which
paragraph (1) applies, where the Secretary of State is satisfied that that
information relates to—

7.3.a

matters of national security;

7.3.b

measures taken or to be taken to ensure the security of any premises or
property, whose efficacy may be impaired by the disclosure of that
information.

7.4

Where paragraph (3) applies—

7.4.a

the Secretary of State may redact the information to which it applies from any
copy of the document that is made available under paragraph (2);

7.4.b

if the Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate, having regard to
national security or other security considerations, to redact the entire
contents of a document under sub-paragraph (a), the Secretary of State may
make available a statement to that effect, identifying the document, instead
of making available a copy of the document with the contents entirely
redacted.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Lee Rowley   Minister of State   Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     20th March 2024

  Documents submitted by the Home Secretary

Article 2(1)

      Number Figure Title Scale Paper size   Figure 2 The Map – Existing Site
Plan 1:10,000 A3 Figure 3 Operational Area – Existing Use Plan Focused On The
Proposed Operational Area 1:5,000 A3 Figure 4a Proposed Site Plans – Access /
Egress Points 1:10,000 A3 Figure 4e Proposed Site Plans – Proposed Site Uses
1:5,000 A3

  Development for which planning permission is granted

Article 4(1)(a) and (b)

1

The making of material changes in the use of any buildings in, on, under or
over the Order land, or of any other part of the Order land, in connection
with the carrying out, in relation to resident service users, of relevant
functions, or functions incidental or ancillary to such functions, including
the provision, by making such a change in use, of—

1.a

living accommodation;

1.b

catering or dining facilities;

1.c

toilet or washing facilities;

1.d

laundry facilities;

1.e

indoor or outdoor sport and recreation facilities;

1.f

education facilities;

1.g

worship and religious observance facilities;

1.h

retail facilities;

1.i

parking for vehicles;

1.j

warehousing or storage;

1.k

office or administrative facilities;

1.l

medical facilities, including accommodation for those being treated in
isolation for infectious diseases;

1.m

facilities for providing legal and other advice to resident service users;

1.n

facilities for those carrying out police and security activities.

2

Building, engineering or other operations, in, on, under or over the Order
land, in connection with the carrying out, in relation to resident service
users, of relevant functions, or functions incidental or ancillary to such
functions, comprising the construction of—

2.a

buildings or structures to be used in providing any accommodation or other
facility of a kind referred to in paragraph 1, including any works of
refurbishment to a building or structure, where planning permission is
required for the refurbishment;

2.b

any artificial surfacing, including—

2.b.i

surfacing that is permeable or porous;

2.b.ii

surfacing in the form of paths or pavements;

2.b.iii

maintenance, repair or replacement of existing internal access roads,

but excluding any other construction of roads;

2.c

hard landscaping, including seats, refuse bins and barriers to control the
movement of people or vehicles;

2.d

lighting and signage;

2.e

gates, fences, walls or other means of enclosure, including where these are
erected to provide protection for existing buildings or structures on the
Order land, or screening between the Order land and adjacent land;

2.f

gatehouses;

2.g

mains, sewers, drains, pipes, conduits, cables, electrical substations or
other apparatus, for the provision of water, gas, electricity, or other
services, including breaking open any land to enable their construction;

2.h

foul water and surface water drainage, including any apparatus or machinery
associated with their provision;

2.i

soft landscaping;

2.j

ancillary security measures;

2.k

closed-circuit television and development ancillary to closed-circuit
television;

2.l

works required in connection with—

2.l.i

the production or supply of any form of energy;

2.l.ii

the storage of fuel or other substances,

to be used for the benefit of resident service users or persons involved in
the carrying out of relevant functions;

2.m

other plant or machinery.

  Conditions subject to which planning permission is granted

Article 4(2)(a)(i)

###### Site operator

1

1.1

The Home Secretary must ensure that, during the whole period beginning with
11th April 2024 and ending with the date on which reinstatement works are
completed in accordance with this Order, a named member of the Senior Civil
Service in the Home Secretary’s department is designated in writing as the
principal point of contact for the Secretary of State in the Home Secretary’s
department on all matters connected with this Order (the “site operator”).

1.2

The Home Secretary may designate different persons as the site operator at
different times within the period referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

1.3

Whenever a person is designated as the site operator, the Home Secretary must
promptly inform the Secretary of State, in writing, that that person has been
so designated.

###### Approved documents

2

2.1

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with each of the
approved documents, and in particular—

2.1.a

where an approved document provides for anything to be constructed, it must be
constructed, remain, and be maintained, in the location specified, and as
provided for, in any approved document that relates to its construction,
maintenance or location;

2.1.b

where an approved document—

2.1.b.i

sets out, in relation to the construction or operation of the authorised
development—

2.1.b.i.aa

a policy, procedure or standard to be applied;

2.1.b.i.bb

a step to be taken, arrangement to be made, or measure to be adopted,

2.1.b.ii

refers to—

2.1.b.ii.aa

an activity to be undertaken;

2.1.b.ii.bb

a facility or service to be made available,

in connection with the authorised development under or by virtue of a
provision of this Schedule,

the construction or operation of the authorised development must be carried
out, the activity undertaken, or the facility or service made available, in a
manner that is consistent with such policy, procedure, standard, step,
arrangement or measure;

2.1.c

any requirements set out in an approved document for the validation,
verification or approval of work carried out in accordance with that document
must be complied with.

2.2

The accommodation and other facilities referred to in the document numbered
Figure 4e in Schedule 1 must be in place and fully operational while any
service users are accommodated on the Order land.

2.3

The Home Secretary may submit for subsequent approval a replacement for any
approved document other than the Map, provided that, in the case of a plan,
report, scheme or programme provided for in this Schedule, the proposed
replacement plan, report, scheme or programme complies with the relevant
provisions of this Schedule.

###### Height of buildings and other structures

3

3.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), the height of any building or structure
constructed as part of the authorised development must not exceed 4.5 metres.

3.2

The height of any gate, fence, wall or other means of enclosure erected or
constructed must not exceed 2.4 metres.

3.3

Where plant or machinery (other than plant or machinery that is required for
the purposes of constructing the authorised development) is erected or
extended on the Order land, its height (when its erection or extension is
completed) must not exceed—

3.3.a

if it replaces existing plant or machinery, the height of any plant or
machinery that it replaces;

3.3.b

if it does not replace existing plant or machinery, 8.5 metres.

###### Modular facilities: floorspace

4

4.1

The combined floorspace of all buildings or structures—

4.1.a

that are erected or installed as part of the authorised development, and

4.1.b

whose construction is development of a type specified in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 2,

must not exceed the baseline by more than 17,500 square metres.

4.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, the baseline is the total amount of
floorspace of all buildings or structures that were on the Order land on 14th
April 2023.

###### Restriction on development outside the Operational Area

5

Outside the area designated as the Operational Area on the document numbered
Figure 3 in Schedule 1, no development may take place other than development
that relates to—

5.a

securing the points of entrance to and exit from the site (including the
construction of gatehouses, closed circuit television and lighting);

5.b

the repair, maintenance or replacement of existing internal roads;

5.c

utilities serving the authorised development.

###### Artificial lighting and its impacts

6

6.1

Any exterior artificial lighting installed on or after 14th April 2023 must be
arranged so that the main beam angle of each installation is directed—

6.1.a

downward and away from the closest boundary of the Order land so as to
minimise light spill;

6.1.b

away from the windows of any sleeping accommodation on the Order land, so as
to minimise any potential disturbance to those occupying it.

6.2

The windows of any sleeping accommodation must be fitted with blackout blinds
or blackout curtains.

###### Drainage

7

7.1

There must be no net increase in the rate or volume of surface water discharge
from the Order land as a result of the authorised development.

7.2

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land unless—

7.2.a

the Home Secretary has submitted to the Secretary of State a foul and surface
water drainage systems report in respect of the authorised development,
identifying what measures, if any, it is necessary to adopt and maintain in
relation to such systems before up to 2,000 service users are accommodated on
the Order land;

7.2.b

the Secretary of State has approved the report;

7.2.c

any measures identified in the approved report as necessary to be adopted
before up to 2,000 service users are accommodated have been implemented.

###### Storage of fuel and hazardous substances

8

Any storage for fuel or other hazardous substances installed on or after 14th
April 2023 must be so arranged as to ensure that—

8.a

it is located on an impervious base and graded to drain to a sump or
collector, or surrounded by impervious walls to form a bunded compound;

8.b

all filling points, vents, gauges and sight glasses are located on an
impervious base and the drainage system sealed, with no discharge to any
watercourse, land or underground strata;

8.c

any associated pipe work is located above ground and protected from accidental
damage;

8.d

all filling points and tank overflow pipe outlets are designed to discharge
into a sump, collector or bunded compound.

###### Removal of trees, hedges and existing buildings

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), no—

9.1.a

tree or hedge may be removed from the Order land;

9.1.b

existing building or structure on the Order land may be demolished,

as part of the authorised development unless the Home Secretary has submitted
to the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State has approved, a plan for
that removal or demolition.

9.2

The Home Secretary may, without a plan having been submitted to or approved by
the Secretary of State under sub-paragraph (1)—

9.2.a

cut down, uproot, top or lop a tree, to the extent that such works are
urgently necessary to remove an immediate risk of serious harm;

9.2.b

demolish a building or structure that is at risk of imminent collapse or
otherwise poses an immediate threat to safety.

###### Fencing

10

10.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land as part of the
authorised development until the Home Secretary has submitted to the Secretary
of State, and the Secretary of State has approved, a scheme for the
installation or enhancement of fencing on and around the Order land,
comprising—

10.1.a

a plan showing the locations where fencing has been or is to be installed or
enhanced;

10.1.b

a description and illustration of the fencing or screening to be used in each
location.

10.2

The scheme submitted and approved under sub-paragraph (1) must include details
of—

10.2.a

privacy mesh screening installed or to be installed between—

10.2.a.i

the Order land and Pollyplatt Primary School;

10.2.a.ii

the Order land and the playing field adjacent to Pollyplatt Primary School;

10.2.b

protective fencing installed or to be installed around the heritage assets.

10.3

No works of construction may take place until the fencing referred to in sub-
paragraph (2)(b) has been installed in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Travel plan

11

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land unless the Home
Secretary has submitted to the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State
has approved, a travel plan setting out how the use of private cars by those
travelling to the Order land—

11.a

to work on, or visit, the authorised development; or

11.b

to provide services to, or in respect of, resident service users,

will be minimised.

###### Heritage management scheme

12

12.1

Before 11th July 2024, the Home Secretary must submit to the Secretary of
State for approval a heritage management scheme.

12.2

The heritage management scheme must set out what steps the Home Secretary
proposes to take, in addition to the installation of fencing around them
provided for in any scheme approved under condition 10, as regards the
protection, repair or maintenance of the heritage assets during the period
covered by the planning permission granted by article 4(1).

###### Noise

13

Any building services or other plant installed on the Order land must be so
located and installed as to ensure that—

13.a

between the hours of 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., internal ambient noise levels in
sleeping accommodation do not exceed 30dB LAeq, 8 hours and 45dB LAFmax more
than 15 times per night, assessed in accordance with British Standard BS
8233:2014 ;

13.b

plant noise levels, calculated by reference to any point where the following
intersect—

13.b.i

the boundary between the Order land and the nearest residential or educational
premises that are noise sensitive receptors, and

13.b.ii

a straight line drawn between the plant and the nearest façade of those
premises,

do not exceed 30dB LAr, Tr, assessed in accordance with British Standard BS
4142:2014+A1:2019 .

###### Fruit and vegetables

14

No fruit or vegetables may be grown on the Order land unless the Secretary of
State gives prior written consent to their being grown.

###### Construction and environmental management plan

15

15.1

No works of construction for which planning permission is required, and is
granted by article 4(1) (“construction work”), may—

15.1.a

commence, or

15.1.b

having commenced under planning permission granted by article 3(1) of the 2015
Order, continue,

until the Home Secretary has submitted a construction and environmental
management plan for the authorised development to the Secretary of State and
the Secretary of State has approved it.

15.2

The plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must comprise details of policies,
procedures or standards, to be complied with in connection with construction
work, in relation to—

15.2.a

the hours within which construction work may take place, including the setting
of times when particular activities may not be carried out in particular
places;

15.2.b

engagement with adjoining owners or occupiers, including keeping them informed
about construction work in so far as it may reasonably be expected to affect
them, and explaining how and with whom they may raise concerns or complaints
about it;

15.2.c

application of best practicable means to minimise—

15.2.c.i

in so far as they arise from the carrying out of construction work and
associated vehicle movements—

15.2.c.i.aa

noise, including the setting of limits not to be exceeded generally or at
certain times and in certain places;

15.2.c.i.bb

vibration and emissions to air, including dust, and any other adverse impact
on air quality on or around the Order land;

15.2.c.ii

the adverse effects of lighting on the amenity of adjoining owners and
occupiers, and ecological receptors;

15.2.d

sourcing, placing, managing and storing of construction materials;

15.2.e

ensuring the safety of—

15.2.e.i

resident service users;

15.2.e.ii

those visiting the authorised development;

15.2.e.iii

those working on its construction or otherwise on the Order land,

while construction work is being carried out;

15.2.f

management of waste in accordance with the waste hierarchy;

15.2.g

preventing or controlling any contamination or pollution that may arise from
construction work;

15.2.h

preventing damage to trees or hedges that are—

15.2.h.i

to be retained on the Order land, or

15.2.h.ii

immediately adjacent to any part of the Order land where construction work is
to be carried out;

15.2.i

management of construction traffic, including measures to prevent the deposit
of mud and construction materials on the highway;

15.2.j

assessing and managing risks associated with unexploded ordnance;

15.2.k

management of invasive species;

15.2.l

provision of awareness training to contractors in relation to contamination,
unexploded ordnance and other risks that may be associated with construction
work;

15.2.m

arrangements for the appointment and retention of a suitably qualified
archaeologist, arboriculturist, ecologist, ordnance specialist or
contamination expert, to carry out, supervise or verify any work in relation
to the construction of the authorised development to which their expertise is
relevant.

15.3

A copy of the CEMP must be kept on the Order land at all times.

15.4

The CEMP must be kept up to date during any period in which construction takes
place in relation to the authorised development.

###### Land contamination: site control measures

16

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land unless the following
are in place, and the Home Secretary has provided the Secretary of State with
evidence that they are in place—

16.a

measures to ensure that obstruction to the ventilation of the authorised
development does not increase relevant contamination risks, in particular as a
result of—

16.a.i

space underneath structures being enclosed with materials that restrict
airflow, or

16.a.ii

non-decorative air-bricks being obstructed or not maintained,

which may include the installation of metal mesh screens to enclose the void
beneath any modular building;

16.b

signage and other materials (including materials for use in the induction of
service users when they are first accommodated on the Order land) that are
intelligible to users and those working on and visiting the Order land,
encouraging good hygiene procedures such as hand washing or sanitation before
eating.

###### Land contamination: monitoring programme and intrusive investigation

17

17.1

The Home Secretary must carry out a programme of intrusive ground
investigations to assess relevant contamination risks in accordance with
British Standard BS 10175:2011 , comprising—

17.1.a

shallow soil sampling and analysis;

17.1.b

installation of gas monitoring wells;

17.1.c

groundwater sampling, analysis and monitoring

(the “investigations programme”).

17.2

In the period before the investigations programme has been completed, the Home
Secretary must, at least once in each period of two weeks, with the first such
period beginning on 11th April 2024, monitor for indoor ground gas and vapours
in each building or structure on the Order land that is used, or to be used,
to provide any accommodation or other facility of a kind referred to in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2.

17.3

The results of the investigations programme, and any remedial steps, must be
set out in a report prepared for the Home Secretary by, or under the
supervision of, or verified by, a contamination expert.

17.4

When the Home Secretary has decided what remedial steps, if any, to take, the
Home Secretary must send to the Secretary of State—

17.4.a

a copy of the report prepared under sub-paragraph (3);

17.4.b

a notice setting out—

17.4.b.i

the remedial steps that the Home Secretary has decided to take, or

17.4.b.ii

that the Home Secretary has decided that no remedial steps require to be
taken.

17.5

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until the Secretary of
State has received—

17.5.a

a notice from the Home Secretary under sub-paragraph (4)(b)(ii), or

17.5.b

a report, prepared by a contamination expert for the Home Secretary,
confirming that the Home Secretary has taken the steps set out in a notice
under sub-paragraph (4)(b)(i).

###### Radiological walkover survey

18

18.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until—

18.1.a

a radiological walkover survey of the Order land, carried out in accordance
with British Standard BS 10175:2011, has been completed;

18.1.b

a report for the Home Secretary, setting out the findings of that survey and
any remedial steps, has been prepared by, or under the supervision of, or
verified by, a contamination expert.

18.2

When the Home Secretary has decided what remedial steps, if any, to take, the
Home Secretary must send to the Secretary of State—

18.2.a

a copy of the report prepared under sub-paragraph (1)(b);

18.2.b

a notice setting out—

18.2.b.i

the remedial steps that the Home Secretary has decided to take, or

18.2.b.ii

that the Home Secretary has decided that no remedial steps require to be
taken.

18.3

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until the Secretary of
State has received—

18.3.a

a notice from the Home Secretary under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(ii), or

18.3.b

a report, prepared by a contamination expert for the Home Secretary,
confirming that the Home Secretary has taken the steps set out in a notice
under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i).

###### Unexploded ordnance

19

19.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until—

19.1.a

a non-intrusive survey has been carried out to determine whether, and if so,
where, unexploded ordnance is present on the Order land, including in any
building or structure;

19.1.b

a report for the Home Secretary, setting out the findings of that survey and
any remedial steps, has been prepared by, or under the supervision of, or
verified by, an ordnance specialist.

19.2

When the Home Secretary has decided what remedial steps, if any, to take, the
Home Secretary must send to the Secretary of State—

19.2.a

a copy of the report prepared under sub-paragraph (1)(b);

19.2.b

a notice setting out—

19.2.b.i

the remedial steps that the Home Secretary has decided to take, or

19.2.b.ii

that the Home Secretary has decided that no remedial steps require to be
taken.

19.3

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until the Secretary of
State has received—

19.3.a

a notice from the Home Secretary under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(ii), or

19.3.b

a report, prepared by an ordnance specialist for the Home Secretary,
confirming that the Home Secretary has taken the steps set out in a notice
under sub-paragraph (2)(b)(i).

###### Relevant risks identified unexpectedly

20

20.1

If a relevant risk that has not been identified as a result of work undertaken
in compliance with a policy, procedure or standard under sub-paragraph (2)(g)
or (j) of condition 15, or another condition in this Part, is identified
during the construction or operation of the authorised development—

20.1.a

any activity that may exacerbate the relevant risk, in particular by causing
contamination or pollution to spread, or unexploded ordnance to explode, must
be suspended;

20.1.b

an investigation and risk assessment in respect of the relevant risk and the
relevant contamination risks or relevant ordnance risks associated with it
must be carried out;

20.1.c

if the relevant risk is a relevant contamination risk, a report for the Home
Secretary must be prepared by, or under the supervision of, or verified by, a
contamination expert, setting out the results of the assessment and any
remedial steps;

20.1.d

if the relevant risk is a relevant ordnance risk, a report for the Home
Secretary must be prepared by, or under the supervision of, or verified by, an
ordnance specialist, setting out the results of the assessment and any
remedial steps;

20.1.e

the activity suspended under paragraph (a) must not be resumed until the Home
Secretary has determined—

20.1.e.i

what remedial steps, if any, to take in relation to the relevant risk, and has
taken them, or

20.1.e.ii

that there is no need to take remedial steps in relation to the relevant risk.

20.2

When the Home Secretary has decided what remedial steps, if any, to take, and
taken them, the Home Secretary must send to the Secretary of State—

20.2.a

a copy of the report prepared under sub-paragraph (1)(c) or (d);

20.2.b

a notice setting out—

20.2.b.i

the remedial steps that the Home Secretary has taken, or

20.2.b.ii

that the Home Secretary has decided that no remedial steps require to be
taken.

###### OMP: establishment and review

21

21.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until—

21.1.a

the Home Secretary submits for approval by the Secretary of State an
operational management plan—

21.1.a.i

whose contents comply with condition 22 (OMP: contents);

21.1.a.ii

compliance with which will assist the Home Secretary to comply, in carrying
out relevant functions in relation to resident service users, with relevant
duties;

21.1.b

the Secretary of State approves that plan.

21.2

If a document covers matters set out in condition 22 and other matters, only
that part of the document that covers matters set out in condition 22 requires
the Secretary of State’s approval under sub-paragraph (1)(b) or forms part of
the OMP if such approval is given.

21.3

For as long as service users are accommodated on the Order land under the
planning permission granted by article 4(1) a copy of the OMP must be kept on
the Order land.

21.4

The Home Secretary must—

21.4.a

keep the operation of the authorised development under review throughout the
period for which planning permission is granted by article 4(1)(a) and (b),
carrying out at least one review of its operation in each period of 12 months
beginning with 11th April 2024, 11th April 2025, or 11th April 2026, and
having regard in carrying out such reviews to—

21.4.a.i

relevant duties;

21.4.a.ii

the requirement for the operation of the authorised development to comply with
the OMP;

21.4.b

within one month of completing a review under paragraph (a)—

21.4.b.i

submit to the Secretary of State a report on the review;

21.4.b.ii

where the review identifies a need to—

21.4.b.ii.aa

amend the details of any matter set out in an approved document, or

21.4.b.ii.bb

replace an approved document under sub-paragraph 3 of condition 2,

make the necessary application for variation approval or subsequent approval.

###### OMP: contents

22

The OMP must include policies, procedures or standards relating to—

22.a

identifying—

22.a.i

among resident service users, or those whom it is proposed to accommodate on
the Order land, persons who meet an unsuitability criterion;

22.a.ii

resident service users who may require to be removed from the Order land under
sub-paragraph (3) of condition 24 (accommodation on the Order land);

22.b

explaining to resident service users that they must not leave the Order land
on foot otherwise than by the main gate, which is indicated as such in the
document numbered Figure 4a in Schedule 1;

22.c

preventing and mitigating the outbreak and spread of infectious diseases on
the Order land, including by a programme of immunisation against such
diseases;

22.d

compliance with—

22.d.i

sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) of condition 24;

22.d.ii

condition 26 (core facilities and services to be provided);

22.e

ensuring the safety and security of those accommodated or working on, or
visiting, the Order land, including measures for—

22.e.i

managing the impact of disturbances, protests or demonstrations taking place
on or in the vicinity of the Order land;

22.e.ii

responding to emergencies on the Order land;

22.e.iii

managing, reporting and monitoring crimes or incidents of anti-social or
violent behaviour involving resident service users that occur on the Order
land;

22.e.iv

recording and monitoring crimes or incidents of anti-social or violent
behaviour involving resident service users that occur elsewhere, and of which
the Home Secretary becomes aware;

22.f

providing cultural orientation to resident service users;

22.g

explaining to resident service users, in a format and language that they can
understand—

22.g.i

the services that resident service users can expect to receive;

22.g.ii

the location of amenities in the vicinity of the Order land;

22.g.iii

details of recreational, educational or voluntary sector activities on or near
the Order land in which resident service users can participate;

22.g.iv

details of the standards of behaviour expected of resident service users in
relation to—

22.g.iv.aa

harassment or threat of harassment, or displays of prejudice or hostility
towards any person, on the grounds of race, religion or belief, sex, sexual
orientation, gender reassignment, age or disability;

22.g.iv.bb

acts that result in physical or other harm to any person;

22.g.iv.cc

the rights of other persons to respect for their private and family life;

22.g.iv.dd

noise and disruption or other behaviour likely to result in a nuisance to, or
justified annoyance on the part of, adjoining owners or occupiers;

22.g.iv.ee

littering;

22.g.iv.ff

areas where children are present;

22.h

providing information about the operation of the authorised development to
persons affected, or likely to be affected, by it, and handling complaints
about it from them.

###### Phasing scheme

23

23.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land until a phasing scheme
has been submitted by the Home Secretary and approved by the Secretary of
State, that sets out—

23.1.a

the phases in which the facilities and services that are to be made available
to service users under this Schedule will be delivered;

23.1.b

how any arrangements that are required to be made in relation to such
facilities or services under any approved document will be adjusted,

so as to ensure that the provision made for the needs of resident service
users at any given time is such that relevant duties are complied with in
carrying out relevant functions, taking account in particular of any material
actual or anticipated changes in the number or proportion of resident service
users that meet an unsuitability criterion.

23.2

Where a scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1) indicates that particular
steps are to be taken before the number or proportion of resident service
users that meet an unsuitability criterion increases to or by a certain
amount, the Home Secretary must, before that increase occurs, provide to the
Secretary of State written confirmation that those steps have been taken.

###### Accommodation on the Order land

24

24.1

A service user must not be accommodated on the Order land unless—

24.1.a

the service user is a relevant person, and

24.1.b

the service user—

24.1.b.i

does not meet any of the unsuitability criteria, or

24.1.b.ii

meets an unsuitability criterion, but the Home Secretary determines that that
service user is nevertheless suitable to be accommodated on the Order land.

24.2

This sub-paragraph applies where the Home Secretary concludes that—

24.2.a

a service user—

24.2.a.i

is not a relevant person;

24.2.a.ii

meets an unsuitability criterion and is unsuitable to be accommodated on the
Order land;

24.2.b

accommodating a service user on the Order land is inappropriate for another
reason.

24.3

Where sub-paragraph (2) applies, a service user in respect of whom the Home
Secretary reaches a conclusion under sub-paragraph (2)(a) or (b)—

24.3.a

must not be accommodated on the Order land for longer than 48 hours after the
Home Secretary reaches such a conclusion, except as a means to avoid or
mitigate a risk that may otherwise be expected to arise to any person’s
welfare;

24.3.b

must, while the service user remains accommodated on the Order land—

24.3.b.i

be accommodated separately from other resident service users;

24.3.b.ii

be treated in a way that takes due account of any matter that makes
accommodation on the Order land unsuitable for that service user.

24.4

Where the Home Secretary makes a determination of the kind referred to in sub-
paragraph (1)(b)(ii), the Home Secretary must keep a written record of that
determination.

24.5

The Home Secretary must send the Secretary of State a report—

24.5.a

no more than seven days before each 10th April and 10th October that falls
between 11th April 2024 and 11th April 2027;

24.5.b

covering the period—

24.5.b.i

in the case of the first such report, beginning with 11th April 2024 and
ending on a date in October 2024, earlier than 10th October 2024, that is
specified in the report;

24.5.b.ii

in any other case, since the end of the period covered by the previous such
report;

24.5.c

setting out the average and maximum numbers of resident service users meeting
each unsuitability criterion in each month of the period covered by the
report.

###### General limit on number of resident service users

25

25.1

The Home Secretary must—

25.1.a

keep an accurate and up to date record of the number of resident service
users;

25.1.b

make that record available whenever requested to do so by the Secretary of
State.

25.2

No more than 2,000 service users may be accommodated on the Order land at any
time.

###### Core facilities and services to be provided

26

26.1

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land unless—

26.1.a

the Home Secretary has made arrangements for the facilities specified in sub-
paragraphs (2) and (3) and the services specified in sub-paragraphs (4) to (6)
to be available, free of charge at the point of use, to or in respect of
resident service users;

26.1.b

those arrangements remain in place.

26.2

The facility is a medical isolation facility for resident service users, with
at least 40 isolation beds and access to sufficient nursing staff to provide
care to those who may be accommodated in it.

26.3

The facility is a medical centre for resident service users on the Order land—

26.3.a

staffed by an on-site medical team comprising at least—

26.3.a.i

a health care assistant;

26.3.a.ii

a mental health nurse;

26.3.a.iii

a general nurse;

26.3.a.iv

an advanced nurse practitioner;

26.3.a.v

a general practitioner (that is, a person whose name is contained in the
General Practitioner Register as defined in section 34C (general practitioner
register) of the Medical Act 1983  or a fully registered person, as defined in
section 55 of that Act (interpretation) );

26.3.b

where resident service users may—

26.3.b.i

register with a general practitioner;

26.3.b.ii

book and attend appointments with on-site medical staff;

26.3.b.iii

book appointments to receive other services specified in sub-paragraph (4);

26.3.b.iv

be treated for minor injuries and illnesses.

26.4

The services are the following—

26.4.a

medical health screening of service users when they first arrive at the
authorised development;

26.4.b

immunisation against diseases;

26.4.c

a system that enables them to collect medicine that has been lawfully
prescribed for them;

26.4.d

a low-level trauma-informed mental health support service;

26.4.e

confidential health advice;

26.4.f

emergency dental care provided by a person registered in the register kept
under section 14 (dentists register and registrar) of the Dentists Act 1984 ;

26.4.g

eye tests, to be provided by a person registered in the register of
optometrists maintained under section 7 of the Opticians Act 1989 (registers
of opticians) .

26.5

The service is that suitably trained security personnel are stationed on the
Order land at all times.

26.6

The service is the provision of—

26.6.a

a regular free shuttle bus service for resident service users from the Order
land to Lincoln, Gainsborough and Newark-on-Trent, with—

26.6.a.i

buses departing for and arriving from each of these destinations at least
three times a day;

26.6.a.ii

each bus having the capacity to seat at least 16 service users;

26.6.b

such other transport services as are necessary to enable resident service
users to access the services specified in sub-paragraph (4), or hospital
appointments.

###### Multi-Agency Forum

27

27.1

The Home Secretary must establish a group of persons (the “Multi-Agency
Forum”)—

27.1.a

nominated by the persons and bodies specified in sub-paragraph (2) to
represent them, in response to an invitation to each of them from the Home
Secretary;

27.1.b

to meet—

27.1.b.i

for the purpose specified in sub-paragraph (3);

27.1.b.ii

regularly, and in any event not less than once in every two calendar months,
throughout the period in which the Order land is used to accommodate service
users.

27.2

The persons and bodies to be represented on the Multi-Agency Forum are—

27.2.a

each of the following that have functions in respect of the Order land or part
of it—

27.2.a.i

a fire and rescue authority (as defined in section 1 of the Fire and Rescue
Services Act 2004) (fire and rescue authorities) );

27.2.a.ii

a local planning authority;

27.2.a.iii

in so far as they are not within sub-paragraphs (i) or (ii), a county council,
district council, or parish council;

27.2.a.iv

an integrated care board established under section 14Z25 of the National
Health Service Act 2006 (duty to establish integrated care boards) ;

27.2.a.v

a chief officer of police;

27.2.b

the UK Health Security Agency;

27.2.c

the Office for Health Improvement and Disparities;

27.2.d

East Midlands Strategic Migration Partnership;

27.2.e

a voluntary or charitable organisation providing information and assistance to
service users;

27.2.f

any other person or body that the Home Secretary considers it appropriate to
invite to be represented on the Multi-Agency Forum.

27.3

The purpose of the Multi-Agency Forum is to facilitate the exchange of
information and views between the Home Secretary and the persons and bodies
represented on the Multi-Agency Forum about interactions between the
performance of their functions and the Home Secretary’s performance of
relevant functions in relation to resident service users.

###### Local services programme

28

28.1

In this paragraph—

      “ local service impact ” means any material adverse impact that the
accommodation of service users on the Order land may be expected to have on
relevant local services;           “ local services programme ” means a
programme that sets out arrangements made by the Home Secretary—         in
connection with relevant local services;           that are designed to avoid
or mitigate local service impacts,         and stating the period of time that
those arrangements cover;           “ local service provider ” means a person
or body that is—         represented on the Multi-Agency Forum, and
responsible for the provision of a relevant local service;                 “
relevant local service ” means any service that is provided locally, on a
statutory basis and at public expense, to persons living in the vicinity of
the Order land, and on which the accommodation of service users on the Order
land may reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect, including—
health care, including acute care, other in-patient hospital care,
physiotherapy, diagnostics, and ambulance transport;           policing,
including policing on and in the immediate vicinity of the Order land;
social care for children;           public health services and control of the
spread of infectious diseases.

28.2

A local services programme must take account of, and describe arrangements
that are consistent with, the phasing scheme approved under condition 23
(phasing scheme).

28.3

No service users may be accommodated on the Order land during a period that is
not covered by arrangements set out in an approved local services programme
that the Home Secretary has submitted to the Secretary of State, and the
Secretary of State has approved.

28.4

When submitting a local services programme for approval, the Home Secretary
must also send to the Secretary of State a report that summarises—

28.4.a

the views of local service providers regarding—

28.4.a.i

local service impacts;

28.4.a.ii

the effectiveness of any arrangements already made by the Home Secretary to
avoid or mitigate local service impacts;

28.4.b

the steps taken by the Home Secretary to engage with local service providers,
including—

28.4.b.i

the information provided by the Home Secretary to local service providers
about the authorised development and when it was provided to them;

28.4.b.ii

the period in which they were able to make representations about local service
impacts to the Home Secretary, being not less than 14 calendar days and
beginning with the date on which they were invited to make such
representations;

28.4.b.iii

the outcomes of such engagement.

28.5

When approving a local services programme, the Secretary of State may, having
regard to the report provided under sub-paragraph (4) and any other relevant
considerations, give written notice to the Home Secretary of the maximum
number of service users (being no more than 2,000) that may be accommodated on
the Order land during the whole or a specified part of the period covered by
the arrangements set out in that programme.

###### Reinstatement plan

29

29.1

In this condition, “ reinstatement plan ” means a plan detailing reinstatement
works, including a method statement and timetable for carrying them out.

29.2

A reinstatement plan may detail any aspect of the reinstatement works by
referring to, annexing, or otherwise incorporating, material from the CEMP.

29.3

Reinstatement works must not be commenced until the Home Secretary has
submitted to the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of State has approved,
the reinstatement plan.

29.4

The site operator must submit a reinstatement plan to the Secretary of State
for the Secretary of State’s approval on or before—

29.4.a

11th February 2027, or

29.4.b

such later date proposed by the Home Secretary as the Secretary of State may
agree in writing before 11th February 2027.

29.5

A reinstatement plan need not contain details of any reinstatement works in
respect of authorised development, to the extent that planning permission has
been granted for it to be retained otherwise than under or by virtue of this
Order.

29.6

The site operator must notify the Secretary of State when reinstatement works
have been completed.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order grants temporary planning permission for development at the
former RAF Scampton relating to the provision of accommodation and other forms
of support to single adult male asylum-seekers and failed asylum-seekers.

  The land to which the Order applies is shown on a map, a copy of which is
available for inspection from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities, 2 Marsham Street, London, SW1P 4DF, and online from  www.gov.uk .

  The development permitted consists of the material change in the use of
buildings or other land, building and other operations, and reinstatement
works. The specific types of development permitted by the Order are set out in
article 4 and Schedule 2 and further detail is given in the documents listed
in Schedule 1.

  The permission granted under the Order ceases at the end of 10 th  October
2027.

  Planning permission granted by the Order is subject to conditions set out in
Schedule 3, as well as any further conditions the Secretary of State may
impose when approving a document that is required to be approved under the
Order, or a variation to such a document (or to a document listed in Schedule
1). The procedure for such approvals is set out in articles 5 and 6; article 7
provides for relevant documents to be made publicly available, and how they
are to be made publicly available.

  A full regulatory impact assessment has not been produced for this
instrument: as the instrument does not regulate business activity, it is not
in the scope of the Government’s Better Regulation Framework.

  For illustrative purposes only a plan of the land to which this Order
applies is appended below.

