Title: The Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified Diseases and Prescribed Occupations) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-30
Description: Under the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (S.I. 1979/925 (N.I. 9)) (“the 1979 Order”) lump sum payments may be made to certain persons disabled by a disease to which the 1979 Order applies, or to dependants of persons who were so disabled before they died. The diseases covered by the 1979 Order are pneumoconiosis, byssinosis, diffuse mesothelioma, and such other diseases as are specified by the Department. The Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified Diseases) Order (Northern Ireland) 1986 (S.R. 1986 No. 168) specifies additional diseases to which the 1979 Order applies.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/46

## The Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified Diseases and Prescribed Occupations) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Order made by the Department for Communities and laid before the Assembly
under Article 11(2) of the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation)
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979, and subject to affirmative resolution procedure
of the Assembly

    Social Security

  Made   8th March 2024

  Coming into operation in accordance with Article 1

      The Department for Communities makes the following Order in exercise of
the powers conferred by Article 3(1) of, and paragraph 8(1) of the Schedule
to, the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Northern Ireland) Order
1979  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation)
(Specified Diseases and Prescribed Occupations) (Amendment) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on the day after it is affirmed by
resolution of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified Diseases) Order

2

For Article 2 of the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified
Diseases) Order (Northern Ireland) 1986  substitute—

####### Specified Diseases

2.2

The following diseases are specified for the purposes of the Pneumoconiosis,
etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Northern Ireland) Order 1979—

2.2.a

asbestos-related primary carcinoma of the lung;

2.2.b

unilateral or bilateral diffuse pleural thickening.

.

### Amendment of the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Prescribed Occupations) Order

3

In the table in Part 2 of the Schedule to the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’
Compensation) (Prescribed Occupations) Order (Northern Ireland) 2007
(occupations prescribed in relation to the other diseases to which the Order
applies)—

3.a

in the left hand column (disease), in the entry relating to primary carcinoma
of the lung, for “one or both of the following” until the end, substitute
“asbestosis” ;

3.b

after the entry relating to primary carcinoma of the lung, insert—

      Primary carcinoma of the lung (except where there is evidence of
asbestosis) Any occupation involving exposure to asbestos in the course of—
(a) the manufacture of asbestos textiles; (b) spraying asbestos; (c) asbestos
insulation work; or (d) applying or removing materials containing asbestos in
the course of shipbuilding.

;

3.c

in the left hand column, in the entry relating to bilateral diffuse pleural
thickening, insert at the beginning  “Unilateral or” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 8th
March 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Under the Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Northern Ireland)
Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/925 (N.I. 9))  (“ the 1979 Order ”) lump sum payments
may be made to certain persons disabled by a disease to which the 1979 Order
applies, or to dependants of persons who were so disabled before they died.
The diseases covered by the 1979 Order are pneumoconiosis, byssinosis, diffuse
mesothelioma, and such other diseases as are specified by the Department. The
Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Specified Diseases) Order
(Northern Ireland) 1986 ( S.R. 1986 No. 168 ) specifies additional diseases to
which the 1979 Order applies.

  The Pneumoconiosis, etc., (Workers’ Compensation) (Prescribed Occupations)
Order (Northern Ireland) 2007 ( S.R. 2007 No. 337 ) lists the occupations
prescribed for the purpose of each disease to which the 1979 Order applies. It
is a condition of entitlement under the 1979 Order that every relevant
employer has ceased business. The occupations prescribed in  S.R. 2007 No. 337
are relevant in determining whether there is a relevant employer.

  Article 2 amends the diseases specified in  S.R. 1986 No. 168  as follows—
Primary carcinoma of the lung where there is accompanying evidence of
asbestosis and/or bilateral diffuse pleural thickening has been replaced with
asbestos-related primary carcinoma of the lung.           Bilateral diffuse
pleural thickening has been replaced with unilateral or bilateral diffuse
pleural thickening.

  Article 3 makes amendments to the occupations prescribed in  S.R. 2007 No.
337  which are relevant to determine whether there is a relevant employer.

