Title: The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-31
Description: These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in connection with, student finance. Two sets of Student Support Regulations are amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations” and the Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 “the 2007 Regulations”.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/157

## The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Education

  Made   23rd July 2024

  Coming into operation-   14th August 2024

      The Department for the Economy  in exercise of the powers conferred by
Articles 3 and 8(4) of the Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998  and Articles 4(8) and 14(4) of the Higher Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 2005  makes the following Regulations.

##### Citation, commencement and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as The Education (Student Support, etc.)
(Amendment No.2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 14th August 2024.

1.3

The following provisions of these Regulations apply only in relation to the
provision of support, and to fees and awards applicable, in relation to a new
academic year, whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done
before, on or after 1st August 2024—

1.3.a

regulations 3 to 6 (victims of domestic violence or domestic abuse);

1.3.b

regulations 9 to 12 (children of persons granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse or as a bereaved
partner);

1.3.c

regulations 13 to 15 (students settled in the United Kingdom);

1.3.d

regulations 16 to 20 (termination of eligible student status);

1.3.e

regulation 21 (eligibility for home fee status in certain circumstances where
leave to remain expired);

1.3.f

regulation 22 and 23 (amendments relating to the Ukraine Permission Extension
Scheme).

1.4

In this regulation—

      “academic year” is the period of twelve months beginning with 1st
January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st September of the calendar year in which
the academic year of the course in question begins, according to whether the
academic year of the course in question begins—         on or after 1st
January and before 1st April,           on or after 1st April and before 1st
July,           on or after 1st July and before 1st August, or           on or
after 1st August and on or before 31st December;                 “ new
academic year ” means an academic year which begins on or after 1st August
2024.

##### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

2.a

“ the 2009 Regulations ” means the Education (Student Support) (No.2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 .

2.b

“ the 2007 Regulations ” means The Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and
Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 .

#### Victims of domestic violence or domestic abuse

##### Amendment to the 2009 Regulations

3

In regulation 2 (interpretation: general), in paragraph (1), in the definition
of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse” —

3.a

for “leave to remain”, in both places, substitute  “leave to enter or remain”
;

3.b

for paragraphs (i) to (iii) of sub-paragraph (a), substitute—

3.b.i

paragraph VDA 9.1 of the Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse ; or

3.b.ii

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of the Appendix
Victim of Domestic Abuse, paragraph 289B (victims of domestic violence),
paragraph D-DVILR.1.1. of Appendix FM (victims of domestic abuse) or paragraph
40 of Appendix Armed Forces (victims of domestic violence: partners of members
of the armed forces);

.

4

In both regulation 2A(3)(f)  (meaning of “ protected category event ”) and
paragraph 4E  of Schedule 2 (eligible students), in each place it occurs,
including in the heading to paragraph 4E of Schedule 2, for “leave to remain”,
substitute  “leave to enter or remain” .

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

5

In both regulation 5(10)  (prescribed description of a qualifying person), in
paragraph (e) of the definition of “protected category event” and paragraph 4E
of the Schedule (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), in each place it occurs, including in
the heading to paragraph 4E of the Schedule, for “leave to remain”, substitute
“leave to enter or remain” .

6

In the Schedule (qualifying persons), in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of
“person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of domestic violence or
domestic abuse” —

6.a

for “leave to remain”, in both places, substitute  “leave to enter or remain”
;

6.b

for sub-paragraphs (aa) to (cc), substitute—

6.b.aa

paragraph VDA 9.1 of the Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse; or

6.b.bb

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of the Appendix
Victim of Domestic Abuse, paragraph 289B (victims of domestic violence),
paragraph D-DVILR.1.1. of Appendix FM (victims of domestic abuse) or paragraph
40 of Appendix Armed Forces (victims of domestic violence: partners of members
of the armed forces);

.

#### Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

7

In regulation 2 (interpretation: general), in paragraph (1), in the definition
of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy
Scheme” , for sub-paragraph (a)(ia), substitute—

7.ia

indefinite leave to enter or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom
under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy
of the immigration rules ;

.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

8

In the Schedule (qualifying persons), in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of
“person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy
Scheme” , for sub-paragraph (a)(ia), substitute—

8.ia

indefinite leave to enter or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom
under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy
of the immigration rules;

.

#### Children of persons granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse or as a bereaved partner

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

9

In regulation 2A (meaning of terms including protected category event) , in
paragraph (3), in sub-paragraphs (f) and (h), after “the student” insert  “or
the student’s parent” .

10

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (eligible students)—

10.a

in the heading to paragraph 4D (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as
a bereaved partner) , at the end, insert  “and their children” ;

10.b

paragraph 4D becomes sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph;

10.c

after that sub-paragraph (1) insert—

10.c.2

A person—

10.c.2.a

granted indefinite leave to remain;

10.c.2.b

who—

10.c.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner; and

10.c.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to remain as a bereaved partner;

10.c.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

10.c.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

10.c.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

10.c.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner made an application
to remain in the United Kingdom on those grounds under the immigration rules.

;

10.d

in the heading to paragraph 4E (persons granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse) , at the end,
insert  “and their children” ;

10.e

paragraph 4E becomes sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph;

10.f

after that sub-paragraph (1) insert—

10.f.2

A person—

10.f.2.a

granted indefinite leave to enter or remain;

10.f.2.b

who—

10.f.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse; and

10.f.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse;

10.f.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

10.f.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

10.f.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

10.f.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse made an application to remain in the United Kingdom on those
grounds under the immigration rules.

.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

11

In regulation 5 (prescribed description of a qualifying person), in paragraph
(10)(d) and (e) in the definition of “protected category event”, after “the
student” insert  “or the student’s parent” .

12

In the Schedule (qualifying persons)—

12.a

in the heading to paragraph 4D  (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as
a bereaved partner), at the end, insert  “and their children” ;

12.b

paragraph 4D becomes sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph;

12.c

after that sub-paragraph (1) insert—

12.c.2

A person—

12.c.2.a

granted indefinite leave to remain;

12.c.2.b

who—

12.c.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner; and

12.c.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to remain as a bereaved partner;

12.c.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

12.c.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

12.c.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

12.c.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner made an application
to remain in the United Kingdom on those grounds under the immigration rules.

.

12.d

in the heading to paragraph 4E (persons granted indefinite leave to enter or
remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse), at the end, insert
“and their children” ;

12.e

paragraph 4E becomes sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph;

12.f

after that sub-paragraph (1) insert—

12.f.2

A person—

12.f.2.a

granted indefinite leave to enter or remain;

12.f.2.b

who—

12.f.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse; and

12.f.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse;

12.f.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

12.f.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

12.f.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

12.f.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse made an application to remain in the United Kingdom on those
grounds under the immigration rules.

.

#### Students settled in the United Kingdom

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

13

In regulation 2A (meaning of terms including in-year qualifying event and
settled status event) —

13.a

in paragraph (2), after sub-paragraph (b), insert—

13.a.ba

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 2 of Schedule 2;

;

13.b

in paragraph (4), for the words from “means the student becomes a family
member” to the end substitute—

means—

13.b.a

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 2A of Schedule 2; or

13.b.b

the student becomes a family member described in paragraph 9A(1)(a), 9C(1)(a)
or 9D(1)(a) of Schedule 2.

.

14

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (eligible students)—

14.a

in paragraph 2(1), omit “on the first day of the first academic year of the
course”;

14.b

in paragraph 2(1)(b) after “Northern Ireland”, insert  “on the first day of
the first academic year of the course” ;

14.c

in paragraph 2A(1)(a)  omit “on the course start date”.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

15

In the Schedule (qualifying persons)—

15.a

in the opening words of paragraph 2(1) omit “on the first day of the first
academic year of the course”;

15.b

in paragraph 2(1)(b), after “United Kingdom”, insert  “on the first day of the
first academic year of the course” ;

15.c

in paragraph 2A(1)(a) , omit “on the course start date”.

#### Termination of eligible student status

##### Amendment to the 2009 Regulations

16

In regulation 5 (eligible students)—

16.a

in paragraph (11)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the end of sub-
paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

16.a.i

no further leave to remain has been granted,

16.a.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ), and

16.a.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

16.b

in paragraphs (11A)(b) , (11D)(b) , and (11F)(b) , after “has been granted”
insert  “and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

16.c

in paragraph (11B)(b) , after “has been granted” insert  “and A has not become
a British or Irish citizen” ;

16.d

in paragraphs (11C)(b)  and (12)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the
end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

16.d.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

16.d.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

16.d.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

16.e

in paragraph (11E)(b) , after “has expired” insert  “and that person has not
become a British or Irish citizen” ;

16.f

in paragraph (12A)(b) , after “has been granted under those rules” insert
“and A has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

16.g

in paragraph (12C)(b)  after “protected rights” insert  “and has not become a
British or Irish citizen” .

17

In regulation 105 (eligible distance learning students)—

17.a

in paragraph (11)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the end of sub-
paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

17.a.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

17.a.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ); and

17.a.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen.

;

17.b

in paragraphs (11A)(b) , (11D)(b) , and (11F)(b) , after “has been granted”
insert  “and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

17.c

in paragraph (11B)(b) , after “has been granted” insert  “and A has not become
a British or Irish citizen” ;

17.d

in paragraphs (11C)(b)  and (12)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the
end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

17.d.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

17.d.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

17.d.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

17.e

in paragraph (11E)(b) , after “has expired” insert  “and that person has not
become a British or Irish citizen” ;

17.f

in paragraph (12A)(b) , after “has been granted under those rules” insert
“and A has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

17.g

in paragraph (12C)(b)  after “protected rights” insert  “and has not become a
British or Irish citizen” .

18

In regulation 122 (eligible part-time students)—

18.a

in paragraph (10)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the end of sub-
paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

18.a.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

18.a.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ), and

18.a.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

18.b

in paragraphs (10A)(b) , (10D)(b) , and (10F)(b) , after “has been granted”
insert  “and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

18.c

in paragraph (10B)(b) , after “has been granted” insert  “and A has not become
a British or Irish citizen” ;

18.d

in paragraphs (10C)(b)  and (11)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the
end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

18.d.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

18.d.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

18.d.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

18.e

in paragraph (10E)(b) , after “has expired” insert  “and that person has not
become a British or Irish citizen” ;

18.f

in paragraph (11A)(b) , after “has been granted under those rules” insert
“and A has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

18.g

in paragraph (11C)(b)  after “protected rights” insert  “and has not become a
British or Irish citizen” .

19

In regulation 139 (eligible postgraduate students)—

19.a

in paragraph (12)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the end of sub-
paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

19.a.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

19.a.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ); and

19.a.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

19.b

in paragraphs (12A)(b) , (12D)(b) , and (12F)(b) , after “has been granted”
insert  “and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

19.c

in paragraph (12B)(b) , after “has been granted” insert  “and A has not become
a British or Irish citizen” ;

19.d

in paragraphs (12C)(b)  and (13)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the
end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

19.d.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

19.d.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

19.d.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

19.e

in paragraph (12E)(b) , after “has expired” insert  “and that person has not
become a British or Irish citizen” ;

19.f

in paragraph (13A)(b) , after “has been granted under those rules” insert
“and A has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

19.g

in paragraph (13C)(b)  after “protected rights” insert  “and has not become a
British or Irish citizen” .

20

In regulation 149 (eligible master’s, etc. students)—

20.a

in paragraph (11)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the end of sub-
paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

20.a.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

20.a.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ); and

20.a.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

20.b

in paragraphs (11A)(b) , (11D)(b) , and (11F)(b) , after “has been granted”
insert  “and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

20.c

in paragraph (11B)(b) , after “has been granted” insert  “and A has not become
a British or Irish citizen” ;

20.d

in paragraphs (11C)(b)  and (12)(b) , for the words from “has expired” to the
end of sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

has expired and—

20.d.i

no further leave to remain has been granted;

20.d.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

20.d.iii

the person (A or A’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen,

;

20.e

in paragraph (11E)(b) , after “has expired” insert  “and that person has not
become a British or Irish citizen” ;

20.f

in paragraph (12A)(b) , after “has been granted under those rules” insert
“and A has not become a British or Irish citizen” ;

20.g

in paragraph (12C)(b)  after “protected rights” insert  “and has not become a
British or Irish citizen” .

#### Eligibility for home fee status in certain circumstances where leave to remain expired

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

21

In regulation 5 (qualifying person), after paragraph (1C)  insert—

21.1D

For the purposes of this regulation, where—

21.1D.a

a person becomes, after the course start date or on the first day of an
academic year of the course, a person who no longer falls within a paragraph
of the Schedule as a result of that person’s leave to remain, or the leave to
remain of that person’s spouse, civil partner or parent, as the case may be,
having expired; and

21.1D.b

further leave to remain has been granted or the person whose leave to remain
has expired has become a British or Irish citizen,

the person who would otherwise no longer fall within a paragraph of the
Schedule is to be treated as falling within the paragraph of the Schedule in
which they previously fell for the remainder of the duration of the course.

.

#### Amendments relating to the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme

##### Amendment to the 2009 Regulations

22

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

22.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes” ,
after “Ukraine Extension Scheme” insert  “, a person granted leave under the
Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme” ;

22.b

after the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”
insert—

      “ person granted leave under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme ”
means a person—         who has leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme; and           who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

##### Amendment to the 2007 Regulations

23

In the Schedule (qualifying persons), in paragraph 1(1)—

23.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes” ,
after “Ukraine Extension Scheme” insert  “, a person granted leave under the
Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme” ;

23.b

after the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”
insert—

      “ person granted leave under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme ”
means a person—         who has leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme; and           who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

#### Amendments to the definition of person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

24

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation), in the definition of “person granted
indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner” , for paragraphs (i) to (iv)
(but not the “and” after paragraph (iv)) of sub-paragraph (a) substitute —

24.i

paragraph BP 11.1 of Appendix Bereaved Partner; or

24.ii

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of Appendix Bereaved
Partner—

24.ii.aa

paragraph 288, as a person in relation to whom the requirements in paragraph
287(b) of those rules were met (bereaved partners);

24.ii.bb

paragraph 295N, as a person in relation to whom the requirements in paragraph
295M of those rules were met (bereaved partners);

24.ii.cc

paragraph D-BPILR.1.1 of Appendix FM (bereaved partners); or

24.ii.dd

paragraph 36 of Appendix Armed Forces (bereaved partner of a member of HM
Forces);

.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

25

In the Schedule (qualifying persons), in paragraph 1(1), in the definition of
“person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner” , for
paragraphs (i) to (iv) (but not the “and” after paragraph (iv)) of sub-
paragraph (a) substitute —

25.i

paragraph BP 11.1 of Appendix Bereaved Partner; or

25.ii

where such leave was granted before the coming into force of Appendix Bereaved
Partner—

25.ii.aa

paragraph 288, as a person in relation to whom the requirements in paragraph
287(b) of those rules were met (bereaved partners);

25.ii.bb

paragraph 295N, as a person in relation to whom the requirements in paragraph
295M of those rules were met (bereaved partners);

25.ii.cc

paragraph D-BPILR.1.1 of Appendix FM (bereaved partners); or

25.ii.dd

paragraph 36 of Appendix Armed Forces (bereaved partner of a member of HM
Forces);

.

#### Other amendments

##### Amendments to the Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

26

In regulation 30(3) omit “Part 2 of”.

27

In regulation 32—

27.a

in paragraph (j) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the day on which the first term of the first academic year
actually begins” ;

27.b

in paragraph (k) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the day on which the first term of the first academic year
actually begins” .

28

In regulation 34, in the introductory sentence, omit “Part 2 of”.

29

In regulation 36—

29.a

in paragraph (3) of the inserted regulation 2A—

29.a.i

in paragraph (i) omit “or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent”;

29.a.ii

in paragraph (j) omit “or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent”.

30

In regulation 59(d)—

30.a

in inserted paragraph (8) for “prescribed” substitute  “protected” ;

30.b

in inserted paragraph (9) omit “Part 2 of”;

30.c

in inserted paragraph (10)—

30.c.i

in the definition of “protected category” omit “Part 2 of”;

30.c.ii

in the definition of “settled category” for “2” substitute  “2A” .

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

31

In regulation 130(7)  after “listed in” insert  “regulation” .

32

In regulation 139(8) after “United Kingdom” insert  “or the Republic of
Ireland” .

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

33

In regulation 5—

33.a

in paragraph (1A)  omit “Part 2 of” both places where it appears;

33.b

in paragraph (1B)(a)  omit “Part 2 of”.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 23rd
July 2024.         Mr Mark Lee   A senior officer of the Department for the
Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in
connection with, student finance. Two sets of Student Support Regulations are
amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations” and the Student
Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 “the
2007 Regulations”.

  These Regulations come into force on 14th August 2024, unless otherwise
specified.

  Part 2 amends the 2009 and 2007 Regulations in order to:         amend the
definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or abuse” to align with changes made to the immigration
rules, to include persons granted indefinite leave to enter as a result of
being a victim of transnational marriage abandonment;           amend the
reference to the relevant paragraph in Appendix Afghan Relocation and
Assistance Policy of the immigration rules to describe the way indefinite
leave to enter or remain is given under that paragraph;           make
provision so that children granted indefinite leave to enter or remain on the
basis that their parent has been granted indefinite leave to enter or remain
as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse or indefinite leave to
remain as a bereaved partner are eligible for student support on that basis
and have the same test of ordinary residence as their parent;
provide for persons in the student eligibility categories set out in
paragraphs in the 2009 and 2007 Regulations (which require a student to have
settled status) to become eligible for student support when they acquire their
settled status during the course of an academic year. The requirement to be
settled in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first academic year of
the course, or on the course start date as appropriate, is removed and the
acquisition of settled status becomes an in-year qualifying event for access
to student support for students in these categories;           ensure that
students who acquire British or Irish citizenship during the course of an
academic year do not lose their status as students eligible for financial
support;           provide for students whose leave to remain expires but who
are granted further leave to remain or who become British or Irish citizens
remain able to access student support for the remainder of their course;
include the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme in the definition of “person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes”. A definition of “person
granted leave under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme” is also inserted,
and           make changes to the definition of “person granted indefinite
leave to remain as a bereaved partner” to take into account recent changes to
the immigration rules dealing with such persons.

  Part 3 amends the 2009 and 2007 Regulations in order to:         correct
legislative errors.

  A regulatory impact assessment has not been produced for this rule as no, or
no significant impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is foreseen.

