Title: The Police Pensions (Remediable Service) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-29
Description: These Regulations amend the Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 (S.R. 2023 No. 122) (“the 2023 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/138

## The Police Pensions (Remediable Service) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

Public Service Pensions

Made 20th June 2024

Coming into operation 22nd July 2024

The Department of Justice makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1(1) and (2)(g), 2(1) (together with paragraph 7 of
Schedule 2) and 3(1), (2)(a) (together with paragraph 13 of Schedule 3) and
(c) and (3) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014  (“ the
2014 Act ”) and sections 5(1) and (5), 6(1), 7(3), 10(1), 11(5), 18(2), (3),
(5) and (6), 19(1), (4) and (5), 21, 22(1) and (6), 24(1), 26(1) and (2), of
the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 (“PSPJOA 2022”) . In
accordance with section 21 of the 2014 Act, the Department of Justice has
consulted the representatives of such persons as appear to the Department
likely to be affected by these Regulations. In accordance with section 3(5) of
the 2014 Act, the Department of Finance  has consented to the making of these
Regulations. To the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, these
Regulations are made in accordance with Treasury directions made under that
section .

### Citation, commencement, and effect

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Police Pensions (Remediable Service)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 22 nd  July 2024 but have effect from
1 st  October 2023.

### Amendment of the Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023

2

2.1

The Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023
are amended in accordance with this regulation.

2.2

In regulation 12 (Deferred choice decision for reformed scheme or legacy
scheme benefits: general), in paragraph (7)(b), for “take” substitute  “takes”
.

2.3

In regulation 17 (Application and interpretation of Chapter 1), in paragraph
(2), omit the definition of “appropriate person”.

2.4

In regulation 21 (Information provided before 1 st  October 2023: applying a
remediable credit adjustment), in paragraph (5)(a) after “(4)(b)” insert
“(i)” .

2.5

After regulation 43 (Variation of the club transfer application period),
insert—

######### Transfers on a non-club basis

########## Non-club transfers in

2.5.43A

2.5.43A.1

This regulation applies in relation to a remedy member (“ M ”) to whom—

2.5.43A.1.a

regulation F6 of the 1988 Regulations (previous service reckonable under
current interchange arrangements)  would have applied, had M been a member of
the 1988 Scheme during the remedy period, or

2.5.43A.1.b

regulation 12 of the 2009 Regulations (service reckonable by reason of
transfer value)  would have applied, had M been a member of the 2006 Scheme
during the remedy period.

2.5.43A.2

A scheme manager may decide to accept, in respect of M’s former service, a
transfer value in accordance with, as the case may be—

2.5.43A.2.a

regulation F6 of the 1988 Regulations, or

2.5.43A.2.b

regulation 12 of the 2009 Regulations.

2.5.43A.3

A decision under paragraph (2) may only be made—

2.5.43A.3.a

if the scheme manager is satisfied that it is more likely than not that, but
for a relevant breach of the non-discrimination rule, the same or a similar
decision would, during the period of M’s remediable police service, have been
made by the scheme manager,

2.5.43A.3.b

before—

2.5.43A.3.b.i

the end of the period of one year beginning with the day on which a remediable
service statement is first provided in respect of M, or

2.5.43A.3.b.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances, and

2.5.43A.3.c

after an application in accordance with paragraph (4) is approved by the
scheme manager.

2.5.43A.4

An application is made in accordance with this paragraph where—

2.5.43A.4.a

it is in writing in a form and manner determined by the scheme manager,

2.5.43A.4.b

it is accompanied by any information the scheme manager reasonably requires to
be provided for the purposes of—

2.5.43A.4.b.i

making a decision under paragraph (2);

2.5.43A.4.b.ii

determining the matters mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), and

2.5.43A.4.c

it is received by the scheme manager—

2.5.43A.4.c.i

before the end of the period of six months beginning with the later of—

2.5.43A.4.c.i.aa

the day on which a remediable service statement is first provided in respect
of M;

2.5.43A.4.c.i.bb

the day on which this regulation comes into force, or

2.5.43A.4.c.ii

such later time as the scheme manager considers reasonable in all the
circumstances.

.

2.6

After regulation 51 (Deciding whether a 1988 IHR member is entitled to an
upper tier award), insert—

######### Determining the value of M’s remediable ill-health benefits

2.6.51A

The scheme manager must, as soon as reasonably practicable after 1st October
2023, determine the value of M’s remediable ill-health benefits as if they had
been secured in M’s alternative scheme.

2.7

In regulation 54 (elections for non-pensionable payment instead of temporary
pay)—

2.7.a

in paragraph (4)(b)(ii), after “regulation (4)(2)(a)”, insert  “or (c)” ;

2.7.b

in paragraph (5)(a) omit “, having consulted the scheme actuary,”.

2.8

In regulation 58 (indirect compensation), in paragraph (2), for “24”
substitute  “23” .

2.9

In regulation 59 (applications for compensation or indirect compensation), in
paragraph (2)(b), for “require” substitute  “requires” .

2.10

In regulation 60 (netting off), in paragraph (3)(a), for “(provision of
information)” substitute  “(provision of explanation)” .

2.11

In the shoulder reference to the Schedule (eligible decision-makers for
deceased members), for “4(1)” substitute  “4(3)” .

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 19th June 2024.
Naomi Long Minister of Justice Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department
of Finance on 20th June 2024. Patrick Neeson A senior officer of the
Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Police Pensions (Remediable Service) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2023 ( S.R. 2023 No. 122 ) (“ the 2023 Regulations ”).

The 2023 Regulations make provision, further to that in the Public Service
Pensions and Judicial Offices Act  2022 (c. 7)  (“PSPJOA 2022”), to remedy the
unlawful discrimination on the basis of age that was found to result from the
transitional protections afforded to certain cohorts of members of legacy
pension schemes established by the Royal Ulster Constabulary Pensions
Regulations 1988 ( S.R. 1988 No. 374 ) (“ the 1988 Regulations ”) and the
Police Pension (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2009 ( S.R. 2009 No. 79 ) (“ the
2009 Regulations ”).

These Regulations correct minor errors in the 2023 Regulations and make
additional provision that was omitted from those Regulations.

Regulation 2 amends the 2023 Regulations. Regulation 2(5) makes new provision
for a member who would have been able to transfer in service to the scheme
established by the 1988 Regulations or the 2009 Regulations during the
relevant period. Such service may now be transferred in, provided certain
conditions are met. Regulation 2(6) inserts a provision omitted from the 2023
Regulations which instructs the scheme manager to determine the value of a
member’s remediable ill-health benefits as if they had been secured in the
alternative scheme.

These Regulations are scheme regulations under the Public Service Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland)  2014 (c. 2)  (“ the 2014 Act ”) and in accordance with
PSPJOA 2022 in relation to a member’s remediable service in a police pension
scheme. They are, to the extent required by section 27 of PSPJOA 2022, made in
accordance with Department of Finance directions under that section (in the
form of the  Public Service Pensions (Exercise of Powers, Compensation and
Information) Directions (Northern Ireland) 2023 ). These Regulations have
retrospective effect, which is authorised by section 3(3)(b) of the 2014 Act.

