Title: The Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-06-03
Description: These Regulations amend the Planning (Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015 which prescribe the fee payable in respect of applications made under the Planning Act (Northern Ireland) 2011. The Regulations increase planning fees by approximately 4% overall. Regulation 3 revokes the Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2019 and the Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/108

## The Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Planning

  Made   9th May 2024

  Coming into operation   31st May 2024

      The Department for Infrastructure makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 223(1), (9) and 247(1) of the
Planning Act (Northern Ireland) 2011  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 31st May 2024.

### Amendment of the Planning (Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015

2

2.1

The Planning (Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  shall be amended in
accordance with paragraphs (2) to (7).

2.2

In regulation 8(1) (amount of reduced fees and refunds) for “£73” substitute
“£76” .

2.3

In regulation 9(1) (fees for applications for express consent to display
advertisements) for “£217” substitute  “£226” .

2.4

In regulation 11 (fee for an application for planning permission for EIA
development) for “£12,177” substitute  “£12,664” .

2.5

In regulation 12 (fees for applications for certificates of lawful use or
development)—

2.5.a

in paragraph (3)(b) for “£289” substitute  “£301” ; and

2.5.b

in paragraph (4) for “£289” substitute  “£301”  and for “£14,450” substitute
“£15,050” .

2.6

In Schedule 1 (fees in respect of applications for planning permission or for
approval of reserved matters)—

2.6.a

in Part 1, in paragraph 4(2) and (3) for “£634” substitute  “£659” ; and

2.6.b

for Part 2, substitute Part 2 as set out in the Schedule to these Regulations.

2.7

In Schedule 2 (fees for hazardous substances consent)—

2.7.a

for “£390” in each position where it occurs substitute  “£406” ;

2.7.b

for “£488” substitute  “£508” ; and

2.7.c

for “£779” substitute  “£810” .

### Revocations

3

The Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2019  and the
Planning (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023  are revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 9
th  May 2024.         Alistair Beggs   A senior officer of the Department for
Infrastructure

  SUBSTITUTION OF PART 2 OF SCHEDULE 1 TO THE PLANNING (FEES) REGULATIONS
(NORTHERN IRELAND) 2015

Regulation 2(6)(b)

###### SCALES OF FEES

      Category of Development Fee payable   1. All buildings (other than a
single dwellinghouse).     Outline Applications       £301 for each 0.1
hectare of the site area subject to a maximum of £12,040.     2. Single
dwellinghouse. Outline Applications £505. 3. The erection of a dwellinghouse.
Reserved matters   where the application is for a single dwellinghouse, £505;
Full   where the application is for a single dwellinghouse, £1014;
Full and reserved matters         For 2 or more dwellinghouses—         where
the number of dwellinghouses to be created by the development is 50 or fewer,
£1,191 for two dwellinghouses and £425 for each additional dwellinghouse;
where the number of dwellinghouses to be created by the development exceeds
50, £21,591; and an additional £126 for each dwellinghouse in excess of 50
dwellinghouses, subject to a maximum in total of £316,577.
4. The extension, improvement or alteration of an existing dwellinghouse,
including the erection of a building or the carrying out of other operations
within the curtilage of a dwellinghouse for purposes ancillary to the
enjoyment of the dwellinghouse as such, or the erection or construction of
gates, fences, walls or other means of enclosure along a boundary or a
curtilage of an existing dwellinghouse. £340 for each dwelling. 5. The
erection of industrial, commercial, community and other buildings, other than
dwellinghouses or buildings covered by category 4.     Full and reserved
matters           where no floor space is to be created by the development,
£216;           where the area of gross floor space to be created by the
development does not exceed 40 sq.m., £216;           where the area of the
gross floor space to be created by the development exceeds 40 sq.m., but does
not exceed 75 sq.m., £425;           where the area of the gross floor space
to be created by the development exceeds 75 sq.m., but does not exceed 3,750
sq.m., £425 for each 75 sq.m. of that area;           where the area of gross
floor space to be created by the development exceeds 3,750 sq.m., £21,250; and
an additional £126 for each 75 sq.m., in excess of 3,750 sq.m., subject to a
maximum in total of £316,468.         6. The erection, alteration or
replacement of plant and machinery including
telecommunications/datacommunications equipment, a single wind turbine and
wind farms.         where the site area does not exceed 5 hectares, £425 for
each 0.1 hectare of the site area;           where the site area exceeds 5
hectares, £21,250; and an additional £126 for each 0.1 hectare in excess of 5
hectares, subject to a maximum in total of £316,468.         7. The erection,
on land used for the purposes of agriculture, of buildings to be used for
agricultural purposes and for agricultural and commercial glasshouses. £1,130
for each 500 sq.m. of floor space subject to a maximum of £14,979. 8. The
winning and working of peat. £2,248 for each 5 hectares of the site area
subject to a maximum of £40,464.     9.         The winning and working of
minerals (other than peat).           The carrying out of any operations
connected with exploratory drilling for oil or natural gas.           The use
of land for the disposal of refuse or waste materials or for the deposit of
material remaining after minerals have been extracted from land or the use of
land for the storage of minerals in the open.           The carrying out of
any other operation not coming within any of the above categories.
£435 per 0.1 hectare of the site area subject to a maximum of £48,720. 10. The
construction of single level car parks, service roads and other means of
access on land used for the purpose of a single undertaking, where the
development is required for a purpose incidental to the existing use of the
land.  £301.     11.         The continuance of a use of land or the retention
of buildings or works on land, without compliance with a condition subject to
which a previous planning permission has been granted (including a condition
requiring discontinuance of the use or the removal of the building or works at
the end of the specified period).           An application to develop land
without compliance with a condition subject to which a previous planning
permission has been granted.           £301. 12. An application for a material
change of use.           where the application relates to a dwellinghouse,
£825 for the first dwellinghouse and £301 for each additional dwellinghouse
subject to a maximum of £15,050;           for any other change of use, £301
for each 75 sq.m., of floor space subject to a maximum of £15,050.
13. Any other application not falling within categories 1-12. £990.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Planning (Fees) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2015 which prescribe the fee payable in respect of applications made under the
Planning Act (Northern Ireland) 2011. The Regulations increase planning fees
by approximately 4% overall. Regulation 3 revokes the Planning (Fees)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2019 and the Planning (Fees)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023.

  The Explanatory Memorandum is available alongside the instrument on the
Government’s legislation website:  www.legislation.gov.uk .

