Title: The Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-11-22
Description: These Regulations are made under powers given to the Welsh Ministers by the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (“the 2023 Act”). The 2023 Act forms part of a code of law relating to the historic environment of Wales. These Regulations also form part of that Code.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2024/930

## The Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024

    Historic Environment, Wales

  Made   9 September 2024

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   11 September 2024

  Coming into force   4 November 2024

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
sections 90(3), (4) and (5), 91(1), (2) and (4), 92(2), 95(4) and (7),
100(4)(a), 101(3) and (5), 102(1), 103(2), 105, 106(5), 107(3)(a), 146(1),
161(2)(c), 170, 209(2) and 211(3)(a) and (4) of, and paragraph 3(2)(a) of
Schedule 8 to, the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 , make the following
Regulations.

### Title, coming into force and code

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas
(Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 4 November 2024.

1.3

These Regulations form part of a code of law relating to the historic
environment of Wales .

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “ the 2023 Act ” (“ Deddf 2023 ”) means the Historic Environment (Wales)
Act 2023;         “ address ” (“ cyfeiriad ”), in relation to electronic
communications, means any number or address used for the purpose of electronic
communications;         “ building ” ( “adeilad” ) has the meaning given by
section 210 of the 2023 Act;         “ conservation area consent ” (
“cydsyniad ardal gadwraeth” ) has the meaning given by section 162 of the 2023
Act;         “ electronic communication ” ( “cyfathrebiad electronig” ) has
the meaning given by section 15(1) of the Electronic Communications Act 2000 ;
“ full statement of case ” ( “datganiad achos llawn” ) means a statement in
writing setting out the full particulars of the case that the applicant or
appellant proposes to put forward, together with copies of any supporting
documents that they intend to put forward or refer to in evidence;         “
land ” (“ tir” ) has the meaning given by section 210 of the 2023 Act;
“ owner ” ( “perchennog” ) means—       an owner of the freehold estate, or
a tenant under a lease granted or extended for a fixed term that has at least
7 years left to run;             “ listed building consent ” (“ cydsyniad
adeilad rhestredig ”) has the meaning given by section 89 of the 2023 Act;
“ planning authority ” ( “awdurdod cynllunio” ) means a local planning
authority within the meaning given by Part 1 of the Town and Country Planning
Act 1990 ;         “ relevant date ” ( “dyddiad perthnasol” ) has the meaning
given by regulation 5(3);         “ works ” ( “gwaith” ) means—       in
relation to a listed building, works to which section 88 of the 2023 Act
applies, and       in relation to a conservation area, works to which section
161 of the 2023 Act applies.

### APPLICATIONS

#### Applying for listed building consent

3

3.1

In addition to the requirements of section 90(2) of the 2023 Act, an
application for listed building consent must—

3.1.a

be on a form published or provided by the Welsh Ministers or a form
substantially to the same effect, and

3.1.b

include the matters specified in the form.

3.2

Where an application is not made by electronic communication, the application
and the documents contained in it must be provided in triplicate.

3.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply if the planning authority to which the
application is made indicates that fewer copies are required.

3.4

Any plans or drawings must—

3.4.a

be drawn to an identified scale, and

3.4.b

in the case of plans, show the direction of north.

#### Heritage impact statement

4

4.1

An application for listed building consent must include with it a statement
referred to as a heritage impact statement.

4.2

A heritage impact statement must—

4.2.a

describe the special architectural or historic interest of the listed building
to which the application relates and its significance, with particular
reference to the part of the listed building affected by the works,

4.2.b

explain the objective that the works are intended to achieve and why they are
desirable or necessary,

4.2.c

include a summary of the options considered for the purpose of achieving the
objective in sub-paragraph (b) and the reasons why the proposals to which the
application relates are preferred,

4.2.d

describe the works and the design principles which have been applied to them,

4.2.e

include a schedule of works,

4.2.f

describe how the works will affect the character of the listed building as a
building of special architectural or historic interest, including an
assessment of the impact of the works on the significance of the building, and

4.2.g

describe how issues relating to access to, or in, the listed building have
been dealt with, but excluding issues relating to access to, or in, any part
of a listed building which is used as a private dwelling.

#### Notice of application for listed building consent to owners of building

5

5.1

An applicant for listed building consent must take all reasonable steps to
give notice of the application to every person (other than the applicant) who
is an owner of any part of the listed building to which the application
relates in accordance with paragraph (2).

5.2

The notice in paragraph (1) must—

5.2.a

be in the form published or provided by the Welsh Ministers or a form
substantially to the same effect, and

5.2.b

be given to all persons who were owners on the relevant date, except where
paragraph (4) applies.

5.3

For the purposes of this regulation and of regulation 6, the “relevant date”
is the first day of the period of 21 days ending with the date that the
application for listed building consent is made.

5.4

If the applicant is unable to give notice to an owner at their address, the
applicant must publish notice of the application for listed building consent
in the form published or provided by the Welsh Ministers—

5.4.a

in a newspaper circulating in the locality of the listed building to which the
application relates;

5.4.b

on or after the relevant date.

#### Certificate to be included with application for listed building consent

6

6.1

An applicant for listed building consent must include with the application a
certificate which complies with paragraph (2), in the form published or
provided by the Welsh Ministers or a form substantially to the same effect.

6.2

The certificate must be signed by or on behalf of the applicant for listed
building consent and include one of the following statements—

6.2.a

that on the relevant date the applicant was the only owner of the listed
building to which the application relates,

6.2.b

that the applicant has given notice in accordance with regulation 5,

6.2.c

that the applicant—

6.2.c.i

is unable to issue a certificate in accordance with sub-paragraph (a) or (b),

6.2.c.ii

has given notice in accordance with regulation 5 to some of the owners,

6.2.c.iii

has taken all reasonable steps to discover the names and addresses of the
remainder of the owners but has been unable to do so, and

6.2.c.iv

has published notice of the application in a local newspaper in accordance
with regulation 5(4), or

6.2.d

that the applicant—

6.2.d.i

is unable to issue a certificate in accordance with sub-paragraph (a), (b) or
(c),

6.2.d.ii

has taken all reasonable steps to discover the names and addresses of the
owners but has been unable to do so, and

6.2.d.iii

has published notice of the application in a local newspaper in accordance
with regulation 5(4).

6.3

Where a certificate is given in accordance with paragraph (2)(b) or (c), the
applicant must also provide in the certificate—

6.3.a

the names of the owners to whom the notices were given,

6.3.b

the addresses at which the notices were given, and

6.3.c

the date on which each notice was given.

6.4

Where a certificate is given in accordance with paragraph (2)(c) or (d), the
applicant must also provide in the certificate—

6.4.a

a list of the steps taken to discover the names and addresses of the owners,
and

6.4.b

the name and date of the newspaper where notice of the application was
published.

6.5

For the meaning of “relevant date” see regulation 5(3).

#### Acknowledgement of application for listed building consent

7

7.1

When the planning authority in whose area the building is situated receives
the matters listed in paragraph (2), the planning authority must send to the
person who made the application an acknowledgement in accordance with
paragraph (3).

7.2

The matters referred to in paragraph (1) are—

7.2.a

an application for listed building consent which complies with the
requirements of regulation 3,

7.2.b

the heritage impact statement which complies with the requirements of
regulation 4, and

7.2.c

the certificate required by regulation 6.

7.3

The acknowledgement referred to in paragraph (1) must be—

7.3.a

in the terms, or substantially in the terms, set out in Schedule 1, and

7.3.b

sent as soon as reasonably practicable.

7.4

If, after sending the acknowledgement, the planning authority considers that
the application does not comply with a requirement imposed by section 90(2) of
the 2023 Act or by these Regulations, the planning authority must notify the
applicant as soon as reasonably practicable.

#### Advertisement of applications for listed building consent

8

8.1

Where an application for listed building consent is made to a planning
authority, the planning authority must comply with paragraphs (3) and (4), but
this is subject to paragraph (2).

8.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) do not apply to an application for listed building
consent to carry out works affecting only the interior of a building which is
classified as a Grade II (unstarred) listed building .

8.3

The planning authority must—

8.3.a

publish the following information in a notice in a newspaper circulating in
the locality of the listed building to which the application relates—

8.3.a.i

a description of the nature of the works which are the subject of the
application,

8.3.a.ii

details of a place in the locality where a copy of the application and copies
of all plans and all documents submitted with it can be inspected at all
reasonable hours, and

8.3.a.iii

the address of the website where copies of the application, plans and
documents referred to in paragraph (ii) can be found, and

8.3.b

display a notice containing the information in sub-paragraph (a)—

8.3.b.i

on or near the listed building to which the application relates;

8.3.b.ii

for at least 7 days.

8.4

The planning authority must ensure that the period for inspecting the
documents listed in paragraph (3)(a), in both hard copy and on the website, is
at least 21 days, beginning with the date of publication of the notice
referred to in that paragraph.

#### Notification to the Amenity Societies and the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales

9

9.1

This regulation applies where a planning authority receives an application for
listed building consent.

9.2

The planning authority must ensure that the bodies listed in paragraph (3) are
notified of the application where the application is for—

9.2.a

the demolition of a listed building, or

9.2.b

partial demolition of a listed building.

9.3

The bodies that a planning authority must notify are—

9.3.a

the Ancient Monuments Society (charity number 209605, also known as Historic
Buildings and Places),

9.3.b

the Council for British Archaeology (company number 01760254),

9.3.c

the Georgian Group (charity number 209934),

9.3.d

the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings (company number 05743962),

9.3.e

the Victorian Society (company number 3940996),

9.3.f

the Twentieth Century Society (company number 05330664), and

9.3.g

the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales.

9.4

The notification under this regulation must be given as soon as reasonably
practicable.

#### Reference of applications to the Welsh Ministers

10

10.1

Where an application for listed building consent is referred to the Welsh
Ministers under section 94 of the 2023 Act (reference of application to the
Welsh Ministers), as soon as reasonably practicable, the planning authority
must—

10.1.a

serve on the applicant and the Welsh Ministers, at the same time, a notice of
reference, and

10.1.b

send to the Welsh Ministers a copy of the application file.

10.2

A notice of reference must—

10.2.a

state that the application for listed building consent has been referred to
the Welsh Ministers,

10.2.b

set out the reasons given by the Welsh Ministers for issuing the direction
which requires the application to be referred to them,

10.2.c

state that the applicant may submit a full statement of case to the Welsh
Ministers and explain what that is, and

10.2.d

set out the requirements in paragraph (4).

10.3

An applicant on whom a notice of reference is served may send a full statement
of case to the Welsh Ministers.

10.4

An applicant who sends a full statement of case must—

10.4.a

ensure that it is received by the Welsh Ministers before the end of the period
of 4 weeks beginning with the day on which the notice of reference is served,
and

10.4.b

send a copy of the full statement of case to the planning authority at the
same time it is sent to the Welsh Ministers.

10.5

In this regulation, “ application file ” means the application for listed
building consent together with accompanying documents and all correspondence
with the planning authority relating to the application.

#### Disapplication of requirement to notify the Welsh Ministers of applications for listed building consent

11

Section 95(1) of the 2023 Act (notification to Welsh Ministers before granting
consent) does not apply to applications for listed building consent to carry
out works affecting only the interior of a building which is classified as a
Grade II (unstarred) listed building.

#### Decision on application

12

12.1

Where an application for listed building consent is accompanied by a
certificate under regulation 6(2)(b), (c) or (d), the planning authority—

12.1.a

must not determine the application before the end of 21 days beginning with
the relevant certificate date,

12.1.b

must take into account any representations relating to the application made,
before the end of that period, by any person who satisfies the planning
authority that they are an owner of the listed building, and

12.1.c

must give notice of its decision to every person who has made representations
which it was required to take into account under sub-paragraph (b).

12.2

The planning authority—

12.2.a

must not determine an application for listed building consent before the later
of the end of the period which is—

12.2.a.i

referred to in regulation 8(4) (if applicable), and

12.2.a.ii

21 days beginning with the date that the notice referred to in regulation
8(3)(b) was first displayed, and

12.2.b

must take into account any representations which are received before both
periods in sub-paragraph (a) have ended.

12.3

In this regulation, “ the relevant certificate date ” means—

12.3.a

in the case of a certificate under regulation 6(2)(b), the latest date of
service of a notice, as shown on the certificate;

12.3.b

in the case of a certificate under regulation 6(2)(c), the later of—

12.3.b.i

the latest date of service of a notice, as shown on the certificate;

12.3.b.ii

the date of publication in a local newspaper of the notice, as shown on the
certificate;

12.3.c

in the case of a certificate under regulation 6(2)(d), the date of publication
in a local newspaper of the notice, as shown on the certificate.

#### Notice of decision or referral to the Welsh Ministers

13

13.1

The planning authority must give written notice to the person who has made an
application to them for listed building consent—

13.1.a

of the decision, or

13.1.b

that it has referred the application to the Welsh Ministers.

13.2

The “determination period” in section 100(4)(a) of the 2023 Act is 8 weeks,
starting with the date that the information required by regulation 7(2) is
received (but see also sections 90(6) and 100(4)(b) of that Act).

13.3

Where the planning authority decides to grant the application subject to
conditions or to refuse it, the notice referred to in paragraph (1) must also—

13.3.a

include the reasons for the decision, and

13.3.b

be accompanied by a notification in the terms, or substantially the same
terms, set out in Schedule 2.

#### Notification of amenity societies etc. of decision

14

14.1

This regulation applies to a decision on an application for listed building
consent for—

14.1.a

the demolition of a listed building, or

14.1.b

partial demolition of a listed building.

14.2

A planning authority must notify the bodies in regulation 9(3) of its decision
as soon as practicable after making that decision.

#### Application for variation or removal of conditions

15

15.1

Regulations 3 to 14 apply to an application under section 99 of the 2023 Act
(application for variation or removal of conditions) as they apply to an
application for listed building consent.

15.2

In their application to an application under section 99 of the 2023 Act, the
regulations applied by paragraph (1) are to be read as if—

15.2.a

any reference to an application for listed building consent were a reference
to an application for variation or removal of conditions of listed building
consent, and

15.2.b

any reference to an applicant for listed building consent were a reference to
an applicant for variation or removal of conditions of listed building
consent.

15.3

In their application to an application under section 99 of the 2023 Act, read—

15.3.a

regulation 9 (notification to the amenity societies etc.) as if “is for” there
were substituted  “relates to” ;

15.3.b

regulation 11 (disapplication of requirement to notify Welsh Ministers) as if
for “carry out works” there were substituted  “vary or remove a condition
relating to works” ;

15.3.c

regulation 13(3)(b) (notice of decision or referral to Welsh Ministers) as if
the reference to Schedule 2 were a reference to Schedule 3.

### APPEALS

#### Appeals

16

16.1

The applicant must give notice of any appeal under section 100(2) of the 2023
Act to the Welsh Ministers within 6 months beginning with the day after the
date of the decision.

16.2

The Welsh Ministers may extend the period in paragraph (1).

16.3

The applicant must give notice of any appeal under section 100 of the 2023 Act
on a form provided or published by the Welsh Ministers, and include with it—

16.3.a

a full statement of case, and

16.3.b

a copy of—

16.3.b.i

the application for listed building consent;

16.3.b.ii

all information and all documents submitted with the application;

16.3.b.iii

any notice of the decision;

16.3.b.iv

all other relevant correspondence with the planning authority.

16.4

The applicant must send to the planning authority a copy of the notice of
appeal and the full statement of case, as soon as reasonably practicable.

16.5

Regulation 5 (notice of application to owners), regulation 6 (certificate with
application) and regulation ‎21 (application in respect of Crown land) apply
to an appeal in relation to an application for listed building consent as they
apply to an application for listed building consent, but as if references to
an application and an applicant were references to an appeal and an appellant.

#### Variation of applications after notice of appeal

17

17.1

An application for listed building consent to which an appeal relates may be
varied in order to correct an inconsistency between the information in the
application and any of the documents which accompany it, but this is subject
to paragraph ‎(2).

17.2

The application may not be varied if it changes the substance of the
application.

#### Decision on application after service of notice of appeal

18

The period prescribed for the purpose of section 103(2) of the 2023 Act
(period within which the Welsh Ministers may not determine an appeal against
failure to give notice of decision) is 4 weeks.

### SPECIAL CASES

#### Disapplication and modifications: applications by a planning authority for demolition of a listed building

19

19.1

This regulation applies to an application by a planning authority for—

19.1.a

listed building consent for the demolition of a listed building;

19.1.b

the variation or removal of conditions of listed building consent for the
demolition of a listed building.

19.2

An application must be made to the Welsh Ministers (see section 90(1)(a) of
the 2023 Act).

19.3

The decision of the Welsh Ministers on an application is final.

19.4

Where this regulation applies—

19.4.a

regulation 3 (applying for listed building consent) is to be read as if—

19.4.a.i

paragraph (1) included a requirement for the application to be accompanied by
any representations received before both periods in regulation 12(2)(a) have
expired;

19.4.a.ii

in paragraph (3), for “the planning authority to which the application is made
indicates” there were substituted  “the Welsh Ministers indicate” ;

19.4.b

regulation 7 (acknowledgement of application for listed building consent) is
to be read as if—

19.4.b.i

in paragraph (1), for “the planning authority in whose area the building is
situated receives” there were substituted  “the Welsh Ministers receive” ;

19.4.b.ii

in paragraph 7(4), for “the planning authority considers” there were
substituted  “the Welsh Ministers consider” ;

19.4.b.iii

all other references to a planning authority were references to the Welsh
Ministers;

19.4.c

regulation 8 (advertisement of applications) is to be read as if paragraph (1)
of that regulation required the planning authority to comply with paragraphs
3) and (4) before the planning authority sends an application for listed
building consent to the Welsh Ministers;

19.4.d

regulation 9 (notification to the amenity societies etc.) is to be read as if
in paragraph 9(1) for “receives” there were substituted  “makes” ;

19.4.e

regulation 12 (decision on application) is to be read as if—

19.4.e.i

in paragraph (1), references to the planning authority were to the Welsh
Ministers;

19.4.e.ii

in paragraph (2)—

19.4.e.ii.aa

in sub-paragraph (a), for “must not determine” there were substituted  “must
not send” ;

19.4.e.ii.bb

the duty in sub-paragraph (b) were a duty of the Welsh Ministers and not the
planning authority;

19.4.f

regulation 15 (application for variation or removal of conditions) is to be
read as if in paragraph (1) the reference to regulations “3 to 14” were a
reference to regulations “3 to 9, 12 and 14”;

19.4.g

regulation 16 (appeals) does not apply.

#### Applications other than for demolition made by a planning authority

20

Section 100 of the 2023 Act (right to appeal against planning authority
decision or failure to make decision) does not apply to an application for
listed building consent by a planning authority which is determined by that
planning authority.

#### Application for listed building consent in respect of Crown land

21

21.1

This regulation applies to an application for listed building consent in
respect of Crown land.

21.2

An application may be accompanied by—

21.2.a

a statement that the application is made in respect of Crown land, and

21.2.b

a copy of the authorisation by the appropriate Crown authority to make the
application.

21.3

If an application is accompanied by a statement and an authorisation as
referred to in paragraph (2)—

21.3.a

regulation 5 (notice of application to owners) does not apply;

21.3.b

regulation 6 (certificate to be included with application) does not apply;

21.3.c

regulation 7(2) (acknowledgement of application) applies as if for sub-
paragraph (c) there were substituted  “the statement and authorisation
referred to in regulation 21” .

21.4

In this regulation—

    “ appropriate Crown authority ” (“ awdurdod priodol y Goron ”) has the
meaning given by section 207(6) of the 2023 Act;         “ Crown land ” (“ tir
y Goron ”) has the meaning given by section 207(2) of the 2023 Act.

#### Publicity for applications relating to urgent works on Crown land

22

22.1

Where an application is made under section 106(1) of the 2023 Act
(applications relating to urgent works on Crown land), the Welsh Ministers
must comply with paragraphs (3) to (6), but this is subject to paragraph (2).

22.2

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply to an application for listed building
consent to carry out works affecting only the interior of a building which is
classified as a Grade II (unstarred) listed building.

22.3

The Welsh Ministers must publish notice of the application and of the fact
that documents and other material are available for inspection, in a newspaper
circulating in the locality of the listed building to which the application
relates.

22.4

The notice in paragraph (3) must include—

22.4.a

an indication of the nature of the works which are the subject of the
application;

22.4.b

details of—

22.4.b.i

the place where, and the times at which, the documents and other material
relating to the application are available for inspection under section 106(4)
of the 2023 Act, and

22.4.b.ii

a website where the documents and other material relating to the application
are available for inspection.

22.5

The documents and other materials referred to in paragraph (4) must be made
available for inspection at all reasonable hours for at least 21 days,
beginning with the date of publication of the notice referred to in paragraph
(3).

22.6

The Welsh Ministers must display a notice containing the information referred
to in paragraph (4)—

22.6.a

on or near the building to which the application relates;

22.6.b

for at least 7 days.

22.7

Section 106 of the 2023 Act applies to an application under section 99 of that
Act (application for variation or removal of conditions) as it applies to an
application for listed building consent.

22.8

The following regulations do not apply to an application under section 106(1)
of the 2023 Act (applications relating to urgent works on Crown land)—

22.8.a

regulation 3 (applying for listed building consent);

22.8.b

regulation 4 (heritage impact statement).

22.9

Regulation 15(1) (application for variation or removal of conditions) applies
as if—

22.9.a

the reference to regulations 3 to 14 were a reference to regulations 5 and 6;

22.9.b

paragraph (3) was omitted.

### Conservation Areas

#### Disapplication of the requirement for demolition in conservation areas to be authorised

23

23.1

Section 161(1) of the 2023 Act (requirement for demolition in conservation
areas to be authorised) does not apply to—

23.1.a

a building with a total cubic content of not more than 115 cubic metres when
measured externally, except a tombstone which dates from before 1925;

23.1.b

a gate, wall, fence or other way of enclosing land which—

23.1.b.i

where it is next to a highway or restricted byway, waterway or open space, is
less than one metre high, or

23.1.b.ii

is less than two metres high in any other case;

23.1.c

a building erected after 1913 and in use, or last used, for the purposes of
agriculture or forestry;

23.1.d

a building required to be demolished by—

23.1.d.i

an order made under section 102 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;

23.1.d.ii

an agreement made under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990
;

23.1.d.iii

an enforcement notice where the notice is issued under—

23.1.d.iii.aa

section 172 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , or

23.1.d.iii.bb

section 123 or 134 of the 2023 Act;

23.1.d.iv

a condition of planning permission granted under section 70  or section 177(1)
of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;

23.1.d.v

a notice under section 215 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;

23.1.e

a building included in an operative demolition order under section 265 of the
Housing Act 1985 ;

23.1.f

a building included in a clearance area declared under section 289 of the
Housing Act 1985 ;

23.1.g

a building on land purchased by a local housing authority under section 290 of
the Housing Act 1985;

23.1.h

a building closed for regular public worship in accordance with provision made
under Part 6 of the Mission and Pastoral Measure  2011 (No. 3)  by a pastoral
church buildings scheme or a pastoral (church buildings disposal) scheme.

23.2

In this regulation—

    “ highway ” (“ priffordd” ) has the same meaning as in the Highways Act
1980  (see section 328(1) and (2) of that Act );         “ open space ” (“ man
agored ”) means any land laid out as a public garden, or used for the purposes
of public recreation, or land which is a disused burial ground;         “
restricted byway ” (“ cilffordd gyfyngedig ”) has the meaning in section 48(4)
of the Countryside and Rights of Way Act 2000  (see section 48(4) and (5) of
that Act).

23.3

See also section 161(2) of the 2023 Act for other exceptions to the
requirement in section 161(1) for demolition to be authorised.

#### Application of these Regulations to buildings in conservation areas

24

24.1

These Regulations apply in relation to buildings to which section 161 of the
2023 Act (demolition in conservation areas) applies as they apply in relation
to listed buildings except—

24.1.a

regulation 8(2),

24.1.b

regulation 9,

24.1.c

regulation 11, and

24.1.d

regulation 14.

24.2

In their application to buildings to which section 161 of the 2023 Act
applies, these Regulations apply as if—

24.2.a

any reference to listed building consent were a reference to conservation area
consent;

24.2.b

any reference to the character of the listed building were a reference to the
character or appearance of the conservation area in which the building is
situated;

24.2.c

any other reference to a listed building were a reference to a building to
which section 161 of the 2023 Act applies.

24.3

In its application to buildings to which section 161 of the 2023 Act applies,
regulation 4(2) is to be read as if—

24.3.a

in sub-paragraph (a), “with particular reference to the part of the listed
building affected by the works” were omitted;

24.3.b

as if sub-paragraph (g) were omitted.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Advertisement of unopposed revocation or modification order

25

25.1

This regulation applies when a planning authority is required to publish
notice of an order made under section 107 of the 2023 Act (modification and
revocation of consent).

25.2

For the purpose of paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 8 to the 2023 Act (procedure for
orders modifying or revoking listed building consent), the way that a planning
authority must publish that notice is in a newspaper circulating in the
locality where the listed building to which the order relates is situated.

#### Interest rate on expenses for urgent works

26

26.1

The rate of interest specified for the purpose of section 146(1) of the 2023
Act (recovery of costs of preservation works) is 2% per annum above the Bank
of England base rate.

26.2

In this regulation, “the Bank of England base rate” for any particular day
means—

26.2.a

if an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  is in force, any
rate equivalent to the rate described in sub-paragraph (b), or if there is
none,

26.2.b

the rate announced as the official dealing rate at the meeting of the Monetary
Policy Committee of the Bank of England last held before that day.

#### Consequential amendments

27

Schedule 4 contains consequential amendments.

#### Revocation

28

Schedule 5 contains revocations.

      Jane Hutt   Cabinet Secretary for Culture, Social Justice, Trefnydd and
Chief Whip, one of the Welsh Ministers   9 September 2024

  Notification to Applicant on Receipt of Application

Regulation ‎7(3)(a)

1

Your application dated ……………… insert date

was received on………………………….. insert date

*[We have not yet completed our examination of the form of application and
accompanying plans and documents to decide whether your application complies
with the statutory requirements. If, on further examination, we find that the
application is invalid for failure to comply with such requirements, we will
notify you in writing as soon as possible.]

*delete if not appropriate

2

If by ……………………….…………………….

insert date 8 weeks beginning with the date the application, certificate and
heritage impact statement are received

2.a

you have not received notice from this authority—

2.a.i

that your application is invalid;

2.a.ii

of our decision;

2.a.iii

that your application has been referred to the Welsh Ministers for decision,
or

2.b

we have not agreed with you in writing that we will extend the date by which
we must give our decision, you may appeal.

3

The right to, and procedure for, appeal is in sections 100 to 102 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

4

You must submit any appeal on a form which you can obtain from the Welsh
Ministers.

5

If you are appealing against a decision which refuses the application or
grants it subject to conditions, you must submit any appeal during the period
ending with ……...…………………………………….

insert date 6 months beginning with the day after the date of the decision

  Notification to Applicant on Refusal of Consent or Grant of Consent Subject
to Conditions (to be included with notices of decision)

Regulation 13 (3)(b)

1

If you are aggrieved by the decision of the planning authority to refuse
consent for the works or to grant it subject to conditions, you may appeal to
the Welsh Ministers. The right to, and procedure for, appeal is in sections
100 to 102 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

2

You must submit any appeal on a form which you can obtain from the Welsh
Ministers. You must submit any notice of appeal during the 6 months starting
with the day after the date of the decision.

3

The Welsh Ministers may allow a longer period for you to give notice of
appeal, but they will not normally be prepared to do that unless there are
special circumstances.

4

If consent is refused, or is granted subject to conditions (whether by the
planning authority or the Welsh Ministers), if the conditions in paragraph 6
are satisfied, the owner has the rights described in paragraph 8.

5

In the following paragraphs, “ associated land ” means land which includes,
adjoins or is adjacent to the building and is owned with the building, and “
usable ” means capable of reasonably beneficial use.

6

The conditions are that the owner of the building and associated land claims
that the building and the associated land—

6.a

are unusable in their existing state,

6.b

cannot be made usable—

6.b.i

in a case where listed building consent has been granted subject to conditions
or modified by the imposition of conditions, by carrying out the works to
which the consent relates in accordance with the conditions, and

6.b.ii

in any case, by carrying out any other works for which consent has been
granted or for which the planning authority has, or the Welsh Ministers have,
undertaken to grant consent,

6.c

that the use of the associated land is substantially inseparable from the use
of the listed building, and

6.d

that the associated land ought to be treated, together with the building, as a
single holding.

7

There is more detail about the meaning of “usable in their/its existing state”
in section 109(7) and (8) of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

8

If the conditions in paragraph 6 are satisfied, the owner may serve a purchase
notice on the planning authority in whose area the building is situated,
requiring the planning authority to purchase the owner’s interest in the
building and associated land.

9

There is further detail about this right in sections 109 to 112 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

  Notification to Applicant on Refusal to Vary or Remove Conditions Attached
to a Consent or on the Addition of New Conditions (to be included with the
notices of decision)

Regulation 15 (3)(c)

1

You may appeal to the Welsh Ministers if you are aggrieved by the decision of
the planning authority to—

1.a

refuse to vary or remove the conditions attached to a consent, or

1.b

include new conditions.

2

The right to, and procedure for, appeal is in sections 100 to 102 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

3

You must submit any appeal on a form which you can obtain from the Welsh
Ministers. You must submit any notice of appeal during the period of 6 months
starting with the day after the date of the decision.

4

The Welsh Ministers may allow a longer period for you to give notice of
appeal, but they will not normally be prepared to do that unless there are
special circumstances.

Consequential amendments

Regulation 27

##### The Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Functions and Responsibilities) (Wales) Regulations 2007

1

In Schedule 1 to the Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Functions and
Responsibilities) (Wales) Regulations 2007 , in Part A, row 22, in the second
column, for “regulations 3” to the end, substitute  “the Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024” .

##### The Transport and Works Applications (Listed Buildings, Conservation Areas and Ancient Monuments Procedure) Regulations 1992

2

The Transport and Works Applications (Listed Buildings, Conservation Areas and
Ancient Monuments Procedure) Regulations 1992  are amended as follows.

3

In regulation 2, in the definition of “conservation area consent” and “listed
building consent”, after “Act” insert  “in relation to areas and buildings in
England, and have the same meanings respectively as in section 162 and section
89 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 in relation to areas and
buildings in Wales” .

4

In regulation 3—

4.a

at the end of the heading, insert  “in relation to England” ;

4.b

in paragraph (1), after “required” insert  “in relation to a listed building
or conservation area in England,” .

5

After regulation 3 insert—

######### Modification of procedures for listed building consent and conservation area consent in relation to a listed building or conservation area in Wales

5.3A

5.3A.1

This regulation applies where listed building consent or conservation area
consent is required in relation to a listed building or conservation area in
Wales for the purposes of proposals included in a section 6 application and
either—

5.3A.1.a

the application for consent has been made not later than 10 weeks after the
section 6 application, or

5.3A.1.b

the Secretary of State considers it appropriate that this regulation should
apply and has given a direction to that effect.

5.3A.2

Where this regulation applies, the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas
(Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024 have effect with the
modifications in Schedule 1A.

6

After Schedule 1 insert—

Modifications of the Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas (Procedure and
Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024

Regulation 3A

6.1

The Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate)
(Wales) Regulations 2024 apply as if—

6.1.a

in the Welsh text, in regulation 3(1), there were inserted before sub-
paragraph (a)—

6.1.a.za

cynnwys unrhyw drychiadau, unrhyw fodelau, unrhyw ffotograffau ac unrhyw
ddeunyddiau eraill sy’n angenrheidiol i ddisgrifio’r gwaith a chaiff gynnwys—

6.1.a.za.i

trychiadau manwl,

6.1.a.za.ii

darnau o blaniau a thrychiadau a gyflwynwyd, neu sydd i’w cyflwyno, gyda chais
o dan adran 6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992, neu

6.1.a.za.iii

pan na fo unrhyw ddeunyddiau o’r fath wedi eu llunio ar ddyddiad y cais,
disgrifiad ysgrifenedig clir o’r gwaith y bwriedir ei gyflawni yn yr adeilad
neu i’r adeilad, wedi ei ategu gan unrhyw ddeunyddiau eraill y gall y ceisydd
yn rhesymol eu darparu,

;

6.1.b

in the English text, in regulation 3(1), there were inserted before sub-
paragraph (a)—

6.1.b.za

include such sections, models, photographs and other materials as are
necessary to describe the works and may include—

6.1.b.za.i

detailed sections,

6.1.b.za.ii

extracts from plans and sections submitted, or to be submitted, with an
application under section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992, or

6.1.b.za.iii

where no such materials have been prepared at the date of the application, a
clear written description of the works proposed to be carried out at or to the
building, supported by such other materials as the applicant is reasonably
able to provide,

;

6.1.c

in the Welsh text, in regulation 6, after paragraph (2)(a) there were
inserted—

6.1.c.aa

bod—

6.1.c.aa.i

hysbysiad o’r cais cydredol wedi ei roi yn unol â rheolau a wnaed o dan adran
6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992 i’r holl bersonau (ac eithrio’r
ceisydd) a oedd, ar ddechrau cyfnod o 28 o ddiwrnodau a ddaeth i ben â dyddiad
y cais cydredol, yn berchnogion ar yr adeilad;

6.1.c.aa.ii

pob hysbysiad o’r fath yn cynnwys datganiad bod cais am gydsyniad adeilad
rhestredig neu gydsyniad ardal gadwraeth wedi ei wneud, neu i’w wneud, mewn
cysylltiad â’r adeilad,

;

6.1.d

in the English text, in regulation 6, after paragraph (2)(a) there were
inserted—

6.1.d.aa

that—

6.1.d.aa.i

notice of the concurrent application has been given in accordance with rules
made under section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 to all the persons
(other than the applicant) who, at the beginning of a period of 28 days ending
with the date of the concurrent application, were owners of the building;

6.1.d.aa.ii

every such notice contains a statement that an application for listed building
consent or conservation area consent has been, or is to be, made in respect of
the building,

;

6.1.e

in the Welsh text, after paragraph (3) there were inserted—

6.1.e.4

At ddiben y rheoliad hwn, ystyr “perchennog” yw—

6.1.e.4.a

person sydd, am y tro, â hawl i waredu ffi syml yr adeilad (pa un a yw mewn
meddiant neu rifersiwn) ac nad yw’n forgeisai nad yw mewn meddiant, neu

6.1.e.4.b

person sy’n dal les neu gytundeb sydd ag o leiaf 3 blynedd yn weddill, neu
berson sydd â hawl i rent ac elw’r tir o dan les neu gytundeb o’r fath.

;

6.1.f

in the English text, after paragraph (3) there were inserted—

6.1.f.4

For the purpose of this regulation, “ owner ” means—

6.1.f.4.a

a person who is, for the time being, entitled to dispose of the fee simple of
the building (whether in possession or reversion) and who is not a mortgagee
not in possession, or

6.1.f.4.b

a person holding, or entitled to the rents and profits of the land under, a
lease or agreement which has at least 3 years to run.

;

6.1.g

in the Welsh text, after regulation 6 there were inserted—

################ Ffurf y dystysgrif

6.1.g.6A

Rhaid i dystysgrif sy’n ofynnol gan reoliad 6(2)(aa) fod ar y ffurf a ganlyn—

################ “Tystysgrif AA

Rwyf yn ardystio: 1 (Fy mod i) (Bod y ceisydd) [ dileer fel y bo’n briodol ]
wedi cyflwyno, yn unol â rheolau a wnaed o dan adran 6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a
Gweithfeydd 1992, yr holl hysbysiadau y mae’n ofynnol eu cyflwyno i’r personau
(ac eithrio’r ceisydd) a oedd, ar ddechrau’r cyfnod o 28 o ddiwrnodau a ddaeth
i ben â dyddiad cais o dan adran 6, yn berchnogion yr adeilad. 2 Bod pob
hysbysiad o’r fath yn cynnwys datganiad bod cais (am gydsyniad adeilad
rhestredig) (ac) (am gydsyniad ardal gadwraeth) [ dileer fel y bo’n briodol ]
wedi ei wneud mewn cysylltiad â’r adeilad. Llofnodwyd …………….. (Ar ran) ………
Dyddiad…………………

;

6.1.h

in the English text, after regulation 6 there were inserted—

################ Form of certificate

6.1.h.6A

A certificate which is required by regulation 6(2)(aa) must be in the form—

################ “Certificate AA

I certify that: 1 (I have) (The applicant has) [ delete as appropriate ]
served, in accordance with rules made under section 6 of the Transport and
Works Act 1992, all the notices required to be served on the persons (other
than the applicant) who, at the beginning of the period of 28 days ending with
the date of an application under section 6, were the owners of the building. 2
Every such notice contains a statement that an application for (listed
building consent) (and) (conservation area consent) [ delete as appropriate ]
has been made in respect of the building. Signed …………….. (On behalf of)………
Date…………………

;

6.1.i

in the Welsh text, in regulation 8—

6.1.i.i

after paragraph (3) there were inserted—

6.1.i.i.3A

O ran y gofyniad ym mharagraff (3)—

6.1.i.i.3A.a

mae’n gymwys fel pe bai’n ofyniad ar y ceisydd, nid yr awdurdod cynllunio, a

6.1.i.i.3A.b

rhaid ei fodloni heb fod yn fwy na 14 o ddiwrnodau cyn nac ar ôl dyddiad y
cais.

6.1.i.i.3B

Caniateir cyfuno’r hysbysiad ym mharagraff (3)(a) ag unrhyw hysbysiad o’r cais
cydredol y mae’n ofynnol i’r ceisydd ei gyhoeddi mewn papur newydd lleol gan
reolau a wneir o dan adran 6 o Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992.

;

6.1.i.ii

in paragraph (4) for “21 o ddiwrnodau” there were substituted  “42 o
ddiwrnodau” ;

6.1.i.iii

after paragraph (4) there were inserted—

6.1.i.iii.5

Yn y rheoliad hwn, ystyr “cais cydredol” yw cais a wneir o dan adran 6 o
Ddeddf Trafnidiaeth a Gweithfeydd 1992, sy’n ymwneud â chynigion y mae rhoi
cydsyniad adeilad rhestredig neu gydsyniad ardal gadwraeth yn ofynnol ar eu
cyfer.

;

6.1.j

in the English text, in regulation 8—

6.1.j.i

after paragraph (3) there were inserted—

6.1.j.i.3A

The requirement in paragraph (3)—

6.1.j.i.3A.a

applies as if it were a requirement on the applicant, not the planning
authority, and

6.1.j.i.3A.b

must be met not more than 14 days before nor after the date of the
application.

6.1.j.i.3B

The notice in paragraph (3)(a) may be combined with such notice of the
concurrent application as the applicant is required to publish in a local
newspaper by rules made under section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992.

;

6.1.j.ii

in paragraph (4) for “21 days” there were substituted  “42 days” ;

6.1.j.iii

after paragraph (4) there were inserted—

6.1.j.iii.5

In this regulation “ concurrent application ” means an application made under
section 6 of the Transport and Works Act 1992, relating to proposals for which
the granting of listed building consent or conservation area consent is
required.

##### The National Park Authorities (Wales) Order 1995

7

In Schedule 5 to the National Park Authorities (Wales) Order 1995 , omit
paragraph 15.

The Local Government Reorganisation (Wales) (Consequential Amendments) Order
1996

8

In Schedule 1 to the Local Government Reorganisation (Wales) (Consequential
Amendments) Order 1996 , omit paragraph 13.

The National Park Authorities (Wales) (Amendment) Order 1996

9

In the Schedule to the National Park Authorities (Wales) (Amendment) Order
1996 , in Part 2 omit inserted paragraph 15.

##### The Town and Country Planning (Electronic Communications) (Wales) (No 1) Order 2004

10

In the Town and Country Planning (Electronic Communications) (Wales) (No 1)
Order 2004 —

10.a

omit article 13;

10.b

omit Schedule 4.

##### The Developments of National Significance (Wales) Regulations 2016

11

The Developments of National Significance (Wales) Regulations 2016  are
amended as follows.

12

In Schedule 4—

12.a

for paragraph 2 in Part 2 substitute—

12.a.2

12.a.2.1

In their application to an application for listed building consent which is
connected to an application for a nationally significant development under
section 62D of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, the Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024
apply as follows.

Provision Modification or disapplication Regulation ‎3 (applying for listed
building consent) Regulation ‎3 is to be read as if, in paragraph ‎(3), for
“the planning authority to which the application is made” there were
substituted  “the Welsh Ministers” . Regulation 7 (acknowledgement of
application for listed building consent) Regulation ‎7 is to be read as if
there were substituted— “7. If the Welsh Ministers consider that an
application does not comply with a requirement imposed by section 90(2) of the
2023 Act or by these Regulations, the Welsh Ministers must notify the
applicant as soon as reasonably practicable.” Regulation 8 (advertisement of
applications for listed building consent) Regulation ‎8 does not apply.
Regulation 9 (notification to amenity societies etc.) Regulation ‎9 is to be
read as if the references to a planning authority were references to the Welsh
Ministers. Regulation ‎12 (decision on application) Regulation ‎12 applies as
if there were substituted— “12. The Welsh Ministers must give notice of their
decision before the end of the determination period referred to in section 62L
of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.” Regulation ‎13 (notice of decision
or referral to the Welsh Ministers) Regulation ‎13 is to be read as if— a in
paragraph ‎(1)— i in the words before sub-paragraph ‎(a), the reference to the
planning authority were to the Welsh Ministers; ii sub-paragraph (b) and “or”
before it were omitted; b or paragraph (2) there were substituted— 2 The
decision must be given before the end of the determination period within the
meaning of section 62L of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. ; c in
paragraph ‎(3)— i for “the planning authority decides” there were substituted
“the Welsh Ministers decide” ; ii sub-paragraph ‎(b) and the “and” before it
were omitted. Regulation ‎19 (applications by a planning authority for
demolition of a listed building) Regulation ‎19 does not apply Regulation ‎22
(publicity for applications relating to urgent works on Crown land) Regulation
‎22 does not apply.

12.a.2.2

In this paragraph, “ listed building consent ” has the meaning given in
section 89 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

;

12.b

in paragraph 3(2) of Part 2—

12.b.i

for “section 8 of the Listed Building Act,” substitute  “section 89 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023,” ;

12.b.ii

for “regulations 3(1), 3(2) and 6 (design and access statements)” to the end
substitute  “regulations 3 and 4 of the Listed Buildings and Conservation
Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024.”

13

In Schedule 5—

13.a

for paragraph 2 of Part 2 substitute—

13.a.2

13.a.2.1

In their application in relation to a conservation area consent which is
connected to an application for a nationally significant development under
section 62D of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990, the Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024
apply with the following modifications and exceptions (and see regulation 24
of those Regulations).

Provision Modification or disapplication Regulation ‎3 (applying for listed
building consent) Regulation ‎3 is to be read as if, in paragraph ‎(3), for
“the planning authority to which the application is made” there were
substituted  “the Welsh Ministers” . Regulation 7 (acknowledgement of
application for listed building consent) Regulation ‎7 is to be read as if
there were substituted— “7 If the Welsh Ministers consider that an application
does not comply with a requirement imposed by section 90(2) of the 2023 Act or
by these Regulations, the Welsh Ministers must notify the applicant as soon as
reasonably practicable.” Regulation 8 (advertisement of applications)
Regulation ‎8 does not apply. Regulation ‎12 (decision on application)
Regulation ‎12 is to be read as if there were substituted— “ 12. The Welsh
Ministers must give notice of their decision before the end of the
determination period referred to in section 62L of the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990.” Regulation ‎13 (notice of decision or referral to the
Welsh Ministers) Regulation ‎13 is to be read as if— a in paragraph (1)— i in
the words before sub-paragraph (a), the reference to the planning authority
were to the Welsh Ministers; ii sub-paragraph (b) and the “or” before it were
omitted; b for paragraph (2) there were substituted— 2 The decision must be
given before the end of the determination period within the meaning of section
62L of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990. ; c in paragraph (3)— i for
“the planning authority decides” there were substituted  “the Welsh Ministers
decide” ; ii sub-paragraph (b) and the “and” before it were omitted.
Regulation ‎19 (applications by a planning authority for demolition of a
listed building) Regulation ‎19 does not apply. Regulation ‎22 (publicity for
applications relating to urgent works on Crown land) Regulation ‎22 does not
apply.

13.a.2.2

In this paragraph, “ conservation area consent ” has the meaning given in
section 162 of the Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023.

13.b

in paragraph 3(2) of Part 2—

13.b.i

for “section 74 of the Listed Buildings Act,”, substitute  “section 162 of the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023,” ;

13.b.ii

for “regulation 3(1) and (2)” to the end substitute  “regulation 3 of the
Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales)
Regulations 2024.”

##### The Town and Country Planning (Referred Applications and Appeals Procedure) (Wales) Regulations 2017

14

The Town and Country Planning (Referred Applications and Appeals Procedure)
(Wales) Regulations 2017  are amended as follows.

15

In regulation 3(1)—

15.a

omit the definition of “the 2012 Regulations”;

15.b

after the definition of “the 2015 Regulations”, insert—

“ the 2024 Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 2024 ”) means the Listed Buildings and
Conservation Areas (Procedure and Interest Rate) (Wales) Regulations 2024;

;

15.c

in the definition of “full statement of case”, for sub-paragraph (a)(ii)
substitute  “regulation 2(1) of the 2024 Regulations;” ;

15.d

in the definition of “referred application”, for “an application which is
deemed to have been referred to the Welsh Ministers by virtue of regulation
9(3) of the 2012 Regulations” substitute  “an application by a local planning
authority which is made under regulation 19(2) of the 2024 Regulations” .

16

Regulation 54 is omitted.

  Revocation and withdrawal

Regulation 28

1

The following statutory instruments are revoked—

1.a

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) Regulations
2012 ;

1.b

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) (Amendment)
Regulations 2015 ;

1.c

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) (Amendment)
Regulations 2016 ;

1.d

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) (Amendment)
Regulations 2017 ;

1.e

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) (Amendment No.
2) Regulations 2017 ;

1.f

the Listed Buildings (Urgent Works) (Interest Rate on Expenses) (Wales) Order
2017 ;

1.g

the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Wales) (Amendment)
Regulations 2021 .

2

The Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Regulations 1990  are
revoked in relation to Wales, to the extent that they remain in force.

3

The following Directions are withdrawn—

3.a

the Listed Building Applications and Decisions (Duty to Notify National
Amenity Societies and the Royal Commission) (Wales) Direction 2022 ;

3.b

the Listed Building Consent Applications (Disapplication of Duty to Notify
Welsh Ministers) (Wales) Direction ;

3.c

the Conservation Areas (Disapplication of Requirement for Conservation Area
Consent for Demolition) (Wales) Direction .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations are made under powers given to the Welsh Ministers by the
Historic Environment (Wales) Act 2023 (“ the 2023 Act ”). The 2023 Act forms
part of a code of law relating to the historic environment of Wales. These
Regulations also form part of that Code.

The 2023 Act protects buildings of special architectural or historic interest,
which may include buildings or structures. That Act provides that the Welsh
Ministers must maintain a list of such buildings in Wales. Particular types of
works may only be carried out to a “listed building” if they are authorised by
the planning authority or by the Welsh Ministers. This authorisation is called
“listed building consent” and is granted under Part 3 of the 2023 Act.

The framework for applications for listed building consent and changes to it
is set out in sections 90 to 99 of the 2023 Act. The framework for appeals in
relation to applications for listed building consent is set out in sections
100 to 104 of that Act. There are provisions about the service of notices and
other documents in section 205 of that Act.

The 2023 Act also protects areas of special architectural or historic
interest. That Act requires planning authorities to determine which such areas
it is desirable to preserve or enhance, and designate such areas as
“conservation areas”. Broadly, works for the demolition of a building in a
conservation area are prohibited unless the works are authorised by the
planning authority. This authorisation is called “conservation area consent”
and is granted under Part 4 of the 2023 Act.

The framework for applications for conservation area consent and appeals in
relation to such applications is based on the framework for listed buildings
and is set out in section 163 of the 2023 Act.

Part 1  of these Regulations makes further provision about applications for
listed building consent, where those applications relate to listed buildings
in Wales. It includes provision about notifying people about and publicising
applications for, listed building consent and conservation area consent.

Regulation 3 makes further provision about the form and content of, and how to
make, an application for listed building consent.

Regulation 4 makes provision about the matters which the statement known as a
heritage impact statement must describe and explain. Section 90(4) of the 2023
Act requires the statement to be included with an application for listed
building consent.

Regulation 5 requires an applicant for listed building consent to give notice,
before making an application, to any other owners of the building. It also
sets out how that notice must be given.

Regulation 6 requires applicants to provide a certificate with their
application for listed building consent setting out the steps that they have
taken to give notice.

Regulation 7 and Schedule 1 deal with acknowledging an application for listed
building consent.

Regulation 8 sets out requirements for publicising applications for listed
building consent and conservation area consent.

Regulation 9 requires the planning authority to notify the listed amenity
societies and the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of
Wales when it receives an application for listed building consent which
involves demolition or partial demolition of a building.

Regulation 10 sets out the procedure to be followed when an application for
listed building consent is referred to the Welsh Ministers under section 94 of
the 2023 Act.

Regulation 11 disapplies the requirement to notify the Welsh Ministers of
applications for listed building consent in section 95(1) of the 2023 Act in
respect of works affecting only the interior of a building which is classified
as Grade II (unstarred).

Regulation 12 sets requirements about making decisions on applications for
listed building consent.

Regulation 13 and Schedule 2 set out the requirements for notifying an
applicant of the decision on their application for listed building consent, or
that the application has been referred to the Welsh Ministers for a decision.

Regulation 14 applies and adapts the requirements of regulation 9, about
notifying national amenity societies and the Royal Commission on the Ancient
and Historical Monuments of Wales of applications, to decisions on
applications for listed building consent.

Regulation 15 applies and adapts the provisions of regulations 3 to 14 to
applications for the variation or removal of conditions of listed building
consent. It also introduces a form in Schedule 3.

Part 2  of these Regulations makes further provision about the procedure for
appeals in relation to applications for listed building consent.

Regulation 16 sets out the procedure, including requirements about giving
notice and providing information, for making an appeal in relation to an
application for listed building consent.

Regulation 17 sets out when an application for listed building consent can be
varied after notice of appeal has been given.

Regulation 18 prescribes that the period within which the Welsh Ministers may
not determine an appeal against failure to give notice of a decision is 4
weeks.

Part 3  of these Regulations makes further provision for special cases, being
applications by planning authorities and in respect of Crown land (land in
which there is a Crown interest or a Duchy interest).

Regulation 19 makes provision for applications by a planning authority for
listed building consent for demolition to be made to the Welsh Ministers. It
also applies and modifies appropriate parts of the 2023 Act and these
Regulations for that purpose.

Regulation 20 provides that there is no right to appeal to the Welsh Ministers
against a decision made by a planning authority on an application by a
planning authority for listed building consent.

Regulation 21 modifies provisions of these Regulations when an application for
listed building consent is made in respect of Crown land.

Regulation 22 makes provision for the procedure for applications relating to
urgent works on Crown land and modifies these Regulations for that purpose.

Part 4  of these Regulations makes provision in relation to conservation
areas.

Regulation 23 limits the general requirement in section 161(1) of the 2023 Act
for demolition of a building in a conservation area to be authorised. It lists
the buildings to which the requirement for demolition in conservation areas to
be authorised does not apply.

Regulation 24 applies the relevant provisions of these Regulations to
applications for conservation area consent and related matters such as
appeals. It also modifies provisions of these Regulations for that purpose.

Part 5  of these Regulations makes miscellaneous provision and contains
consequential amendments. It also revokes obsolete statutory instruments and
withdraws obsolete directions.

Regulation 25 sets out the procedure for the advertisement of an unopposed
revocation or modification order made under section 107 of the 2023 Act.

Regulation 26 prescribes the interest rate for the cost of urgent works
carried out under section 145 of the 2023 Act.

Regulation 27 and Schedule 4 make consequential amendments. They include
amendments which adapt the procedures in these Regulations to applications
which are connected with proposals under the Transport and Works Act 1992 or
proposals which are for a development of national significance under section
62D of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

Regulation 28 and Schedule 5 revoke statutory instruments and withdraw
directions.

The statutory instruments which are revoked are the Planning (Listed Buildings
and Conservation Areas) (Wales) Regulations 2012 and subsequent amending
instruments, and the Listed Buildings (Urgent Works) (Interest Rate on
Expenses) (Wales) Order 2017.

The Directions which are withdrawn are the Listed Building Applications and
Decisions (Duty to Notify National Amenity Societies and the Royal Commission)
(Wales) Direction 2022, the Listed Building Consent Applications
(Disapplication of Duty to Notify Welsh Ministers) (Wales) Direction  2017 No.
25  and the Conservation Areas (Disapplication of Requirement for Conservation
Area Consent for Demolition) (Wales) Direction  2017 No. 27 .

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations.

