Title: The Registered Office Address (Rectification of Register) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations provide the registrar of companies with power, on application and on the registrar’s own motion, to change a company’s registered office address to a “default address” if the registrar is satisfied that the address is not an “appropriate address” within the meaning of section 86 of the Companies Act 2006 (c. 46).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/233

## The Registered Office Address (Rectification of Register) Regulations 2024

    COMPANIES

  Made   29th February 2024

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1097A and 1292(1) of the Companies Act 2006 .       In
accordance with sections 1097A(10) and 1290 of the Companies Act 2006, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before Parliament and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Registered Office Address (Rectification
of Register) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force when section 105 (registered office:
rectification of register) of the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency
Act 2023  comes fully into force.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Companies Act 2006; “ default address ” means an address
nominated by the registrar under  regulation 3 ; “ the 2016 Regulations ”
means the Companies (Address of Registered Office) Regulations 2016 .

### Default address

#### Nomination of default address

3

3.1

The registrar must nominate one or more addresses to be default addresses for
the purposes of these Regulations (which need not be appropriate addresses ).

3.2

The registrar may only nominate an address under  paragraph (1)  if the
address is—

3.2.a

one at which the registrar carries out functions, or

3.2.b

a PO box.

3.3

The registrar must perform the duty in  paragraph (1)  by means of registrar’s
rules .

### Application to registrar

#### Application for address to be changed

4

4.1

Any person may apply to the registrar to change the address of a company’s
registered office in accordance with these Regulations if the person thinks
that the address is not an appropriate address.

4.2

The application must—

4.2.a

state the applicant’s name, address and email address;

4.2.b

state the name of the company, the company’s registered number and the address
of its registered office, and

4.2.c

explain why the applicant thinks that the address of the company’s registered
office is not an appropriate address.

4.3

The application must be accompanied by any information that the applicant
wishes to rely on in support of the application.

#### Notification of outcome of application

5

5.1

The registrar must give the applicant a written notice stating the outcome of
any application under  regulation 4 .

5.2

If the application is unsuccessful, the notice must explain that the applicant
has a right to appeal under  regulation 14 .

### Change of address to default address with prior notice

#### Notice that registrar intends to change address to default address

6

6.1

Where the registrar is satisfied that the address of a company’s registered
office is not an appropriate address and  regulation 10  (power to change
address to default address without notice) does not apply, the registrar must
give the company a written notice in accordance with  this regulation .

6.2

The notice must state that the registrar intends to change the address of the
company's registered office to a default address unless within the specified
period—

6.2.a

the company gives notice of a new registered office address in accordance with
section 87 of the Act, or

6.2.b

the company objects to the address of its registered office being changed and
provides evidence to the satisfaction of the registrar that the company’s
registered office address is an appropriate address.

6.3

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to act under  this regulation .

6.4

A notice may be given under  this regulation  on the registrar’s own motion or
following an application under  regulation 4 .

6.5

If it is given following an application under  regulation 4 , the notice must
also state that fact.

6.6

In  this Part  “ the specified period ” means the period of 14 days beginning
with the day on which a notice is given under  paragraph (1) .

#### Registrar duty to change address to default address

7

7.1

Where the registrar has given a company a notice under  regulation 6  the
registrar must change the address of the company’s registered office to a
default address if—

7.1.a

within the specified period, the company has not given notice of a new
registered office address in accordance with section 87 of the Act, and

7.1.b

after the end of the specified period, the registrar remains satisfied that
the company’s registered office address is not an appropriate address.

7.2

The fact that a company failed, within the specified period, to object to the
change of the address may be taken by the registrar as sufficient evidence of
the fact that its registered office address is not an appropriate address
(without further ado).

7.3

The change in the address of the company’s registered office is effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the company had given notice under section 87
of the Act.

#### Notice of change of address under 

8

8.1

If the registrar changes the address of a company’s registered office under
regulation 7 , the registrar must give the company a written notice of the
change.

8.2

The notice must—

8.2.a

state the new address;

8.2.b

state the date on which the address was changed;

8.2.c

explain why the address was changed;

8.2.d

explain that the company has a right to appeal under  regulation 13 , and

8.2.e

explain the effect of  regulations 20  to  22 .

8.3

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to change the address.

#### Notice of decision not to change address under 

9

If the registrar has given the company a notice under  regulation 6  and
decides not to change the address of its registered office, the registrar must
give the company a written notice of that fact.

### Change of address to default address without prior notice

#### Power to change address to default address without notice

10

10.1

This regulation  applies where the registrar—

10.1.a

is satisfied that the address of a company’s registered office is not an
appropriate address, and

10.1.b

does not consider it necessary to provide a period for objections to be made
to the address of the company’s registered office being changed to a default
address.

10.2

The registrar may change the address of the company’s registered office to a
default address.

10.3

The change in the address of the company’s registered office is effected by
the registrar proceeding as if the company had given notice under section 87
of the Act.

10.4

The registrar may act under  this regulation  on the registrar’s own motion or
following an application under  regulation 4 .

#### Notice of change of address under 

11

11.1

If the registrar changes the address of a company’s registered office under
regulation 10 , the registrar must give the company a written notice of the
change.

11.2

The notice must—

11.2.a

state the new address;

11.2.b

state the date on which the address was changed;

11.2.c

explain why the address was changed;

11.2.d

where the change follows an application under  regulation 4 , state that fact;

11.2.e

explain that the company has a right to appeal under  regulation 13 , and

11.2.f

explain the effect of  regulations 20  to  22 .

11.3

The notice must be accompanied by a description of any information on which
the registrar relied in deciding to change the address.

### Change of address from one default address to another default address

#### Change of default address

12

12.1

This regulation  applies where—

12.1.a

the registrar has changed the address of a company’s registered office under
regulation 7  or  10 , and

12.1.b

the company has not since delivered a notice to the registrar in accordance
with section 87 of the Act.

12.2

The registrar may change the address of the company’s registered office to
another default address.

12.3

The change in the address is effected by the registrar proceeding as if the
company had given notice under section 87 of the Act.

12.4

Where the registrar acts under  paragraph (2) , the registrar must give the
company a written notice of the change.

12.5

The notice must state—

12.5.a

the new address;

12.5.b

the date on which the address was changed.

### Appeals to the court

#### Appeal by company

13

13.1

If the registrar changes the address of a company’s registered office under
regulation 7  or  10  the company may appeal to the court.

13.2

The appeal must be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the company was given the notice of the change under  regulation 8
or  11 .

13.3

In determining an appeal the court may take into account evidence that was not
available to the registrar.

#### Appeal by applicant

14

14.1

A person who applies to the registrar under  regulation 4  to change the
address of a company’s registered office may appeal to the court if the
application is unsuccessful.

14.2

The appeal must be brought within the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the applicant was given the notice of the outcome of the application
under  regulation 5 .

### Effect of change to default address

#### Valid service at previous address

15

Where the registrar changes the address of a company’s registered office to a
default address under these Regulations (including where the registrar changes
the address from one default address to another default address), a person may
validly serve any document on the company at the old address during the period
of 14 days beginning with the day on which it was changed.

#### Suspension of duties about making records available for inspection

16

16.1

Where the registrar changes the address of a company’s registered office from
an address which is not a default address to a default address, the following
duties do not apply in relation to the company during the suspension period
(see paragraphs (2) and (3))—

16.1.a

the duty under any of the following sections of the Act to make company
records available for inspection—

16.1.a.i

section 114 (register of members);

16.1.a.ii

section 162 (register of directors);

16.1.a.iii

section 228 (directors’ service contracts or memorandum of terms);

16.1.a.iv

section 237 (directors’ indemnities);

16.1.a.v

section 275 (register of secretaries);

16.1.a.vi

section 358 (records of resolutions etc);

16.1.a.vii

section 388 (accounting records);

16.1.a.viii

section 702 (contracts relating to the purchase of own shares);

16.1.a.ix

section 720 (directors’ statement and auditor’s report to be available for
inspection);

16.1.a.x

section 743 (register of debenture holders);

16.1.a.xi

section 790N (register to be kept available for public inspection);

16.1.a.xii

section 805 (report to members of outcome of investigation by public company
into interests in its shares);

16.1.a.xiii

section 809 (register of interests in shares disclosed to public company), and

16.1.a.xiv

sections 859P and 859Q (instruments creating and amending charges);

16.1.b

the duty to display a company’s issuer register of members and its register of
uncertificated shares under paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to the Uncertificated
Securities Regulations 2001 ;

16.1.c

the duty to display a company’s registered name at the company’s registered
office under regulation 21(1)(a) of the Company, Limited Liability Partnership
and Business (Names and Trading Disclosures) Regulations 2015  (“ the 2015
Regulations ”);

16.1.d

the duty under regulation 25 of the 2015 Regulations to state information
about the company’s registered office in descriptions of document or
communication specified in regulation 25(1), and

16.1.e

the duty under regulation 27 of the 2015 Regulations to provide information
about a company’s registered office on request to those persons the company
deals with in the course of business.

16.2

The “ suspension period ” means the period of 28 days beginning with the day
on which the change referred to in paragraph (1) was made, unless an appeal is
brought within that period.

16.3

If an appeal is brought within that period, the “suspension period” is
whichever of the following ends later—

16.3.a

the period mentioned in paragraph (2), and

16.3.b

the period beginning with the day on which the change is made and ending with—

16.3.b.i

the end of the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which the appeal is
finally determined in the registrar’s favour;

16.3.b.ii

the end of the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which a new address
is registered at the direction of the court following final determination of
the appeal in the applicant’s favour, or

16.3.b.iii

the day on which the appeal is withdrawn.

#### Administration of the default address

17

Where a company has had its registered office address changed to a default
address in accordance with these Regulations, the company may not display its
name, or keep, display, or make available for inspection, its registers,
indexes or other documents at the default address.

#### Collection and destruction of documents

18

18.1

If the address of a company’s registered office is changed to a default
address (including from one default address to another default address) the
registrar must facilitate the collection by the company of any documents
delivered to the company at that address.

18.2

But the registrar may destroy any document delivered to the company at that
address if—

18.2.a

it is not collected within the period of 6 months beginning with the day on
which it is delivered, or

18.2.b

the company is struck off.

#### No duty on registrar to forward documents

19

Where a company has changed the address of its registered office from a
default address to a new address under section 87 of the Act, the registrar is
under no duty to forward any documents delivered to the company at the default
address to the new address.

### Requirement to move registered office from default address

#### Duty to move registered office from default address within compliance period

20

20.1

This regulation  applies to a company that has had the address of its
registered office changed to a default address under either—

20.1.a

regulation 7  or  10 , or

20.1.b

the 2016 Regulations and has not given a notice under section 87 of the Act
before these Regulations come into force.

20.2

The company must, before the end of the compliance period, give a notice under
section 87 of the Act to change the address of its registered office to a new
address.

20.3

The “compliance period” is—

20.3.a

in relation to a company whose registered office address has been changed
under  regulation 7  or  10 , the period of 28 days beginning with the day on
which the change was made, and

20.3.b

in relation to a company whose registered office address has been changed
under the 2016 Regulations, the period of 28 days beginning with the day on
which these Regulations come into force,

unless an appeal is brought within that period.

20.4

If an appeal is brought within that period, the “compliance period” is
whichever of the following ends later—

20.4.a

the period mentioned in  paragraph (3) , and

20.4.b

the period beginning with the day on which the change is made and ending with—

20.4.b.i

the end of the period of 7 days beginning with the day on which the appeal is
finally determined in the registrar’s favour, or

20.4.b.ii

the day on which the appeal is withdrawn.

#### Offence of failure to comply with 

21

21.1

If a company fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with  regulation 20
an offence is committed by—

21.1.a

the company, and

21.1.b

every officer of the company that is in default .

21.2

For the purposes of  this regulation  a shadow director is treated as a
director.

21.3

A person guilty of an offence under  this regulation  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale and, for
continued contravention, a daily default fine not exceeding one-tenth of level
3 on the standard scale.

#### Striking off a company that fails to comply with 

22

22.1

The registrar may strike a company’s name off the register if the company has
failed to comply with  regulation 20 .

22.2

The registrar may not exercise the power in paragraph (1) unless, after that
failure—

22.2.a

the registrar has published a notice in the Gazette that, at the end of the
period of 2 months beginning with the date of the notice, the name of the
company mentioned in the notice will be struck off the register and the
company will be dissolved unless, before the end of that period, the company
gives a notice in accordance with section 87 of the Act to change the address
of its registered office to a new address or an objection is received by the
registrar which satisfies the registrar that it is not appropriate to strike
the company’s name off the register, and

22.2.b

the period mentioned in paragraph (a) has expired.

22.3

If the registrar exercises the power in paragraph (1), the registrar must
publish a notice in the Gazette of the company’s name having been struck off
the register.

22.4

On the publication of the notice in the Gazette the company is dissolved.

22.5

However—

22.5.a

the liability (if any) of every director, managing officer and member of the
company continues and may be enforced as if the company had not been
dissolved, and

22.5.b

nothing in this paragraph affects the power of the court to wind up a company
the name of which has been struck off the register.

#### Restoration of struck-off company

23

23.1

Chapter 3 of Part 31 of the Act applies in relation to a company struck off
under regulation 22 as it applies to a company struck off under section 1000
of the Act, subject to the modification in paragraph (2).

23.2

Section 1025 of the Act has effect as if after the words “up to date” in
subsection (5) there were included “and has delivered to the registrar a
notice of change of address under section 87”.

### Revocation and Transitional Provision

#### Revocation

24

The 2016 Regulations are revoked.

#### Transitional provision

25

25.1

An application made or notice given under a provision of the 2016 Regulations
specified in column 2 of the table is to be treated, after the commencement of
these Regulations—

25.1.a

as if it were an application made or notice given under the provision of these
Regulations specified in the corresponding entry in column 3, and

25.1.b

as if it complied with the requirements of these Regulations in relation to
such applications or notices.

1 2 3 General description Provision of the 2016 Regulations Corresponding
provision of these Regulations> Application to change company’s registered
office address Regulation 2 Regulation 4 Notice of application Regulation 5(b)
Regulation 6 Notice of outcome Regulation 10 Regulations 5 and 8

25.2

Where a notice has been given under regulation 5(b) of the 2016 Regulations
before these Regulations come into force, the specified period for the
purposes of regulations 6 and 7 of these Regulations is the period specified
in that notice.

25.3

Where an address is a default address within the meaning of regulation 1(2)(d)
of the 2016 Regulations before these Regulations come into force, that address
is to be treated, after the commencement of these Regulations, as if it had
been nominated in accordance with regulation 3 of these Regulations.

25.4

In relation to a company whose registered office address has been changed to a
default address under the 2016 Regulations, regulation 13(2) has effect as if
the reference to the period mentioned there were to the period mentioned in
regulation 16 of the 2016 Regulations.

25.5

Anything else done under (or for the purposes of or in reliance on) a
provision in the 2016 Regulations, and effective immediately before the time
these Regulations come into force, has effect after that time as if done under
(or for the purposes of or in reliance on) the corresponding provision of
these Regulations.

Kevin Hollinrake Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Department for
Business and Trade 29th February 2024

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations provide the registrar of companies with power, on
application and on the registrar’s own motion, to change a company’s
registered office address to a “default address” if the registrar is satisfied
that the address is not an “appropriate address” within the meaning of section
86 of the Companies Act  2006 (c. 46) .

  Part 2 requires the registrar to nominate a default address for the purposes
of these Regulations.

  Part 3 provides for applications to be made to the registrar to change a
company’s registered office address and the notice to be given about the
application.

  Part 4 provides for the registrar to change a company’s registered office
address after having given prior notice to the company.

  Part 5 provides for the registrar to change a company’s registered office
address without giving prior notice.

  Part 6 provides for the registrar to be able to change a registered office
address from one default address to another default address.

  Part 7 provides for appeals against the registrar’s decisions under these
Regulations.

  Part 8 provides for the effect of changing a company’s registered office
address to a default address nominated by the registrar.

  Part 9 establishes a criminal offence for a company and any officer in
default where the company does not change its registered office address to an
appropriate address within a certain period. Part 9 also establishes a power
for the registrar to initiate strike-off proceedings against the company in
these circumstances, and makes provision about the restoration of a struck-off
company.

  Part 10 revokes the Companies (Address of Registered Office) 2016
Regulations ( S.I. 2016/423 ) and contains transitional provision.

  No impact assessment has been prepared in connection with these Regulations.

