Title: The Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-03-27
Description: These Regulations amend the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002 (S.R. 2002 No. 1) (“the 2002 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/36

## The Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Dangerous Drugs

  Made   6th March 2024

  Coming into operation   27th March 2024

      The Department of Health, makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 7, 10, 22 and 31 of the Misuse of Drugs Act
1971  as adapted by sections 7(9), 31(4) and 38 of that Act and now vested in
it  and after consultation with the Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs in
accordance with section 31(3) of that Act.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Misuse of Drugs (Amendment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 27th March 2024.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

### Amendment of the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002

2

2.1

The Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002  are amended as
follows.

2.2

In paragraph 1(a) of Schedule 1 (Controlled Drugs subject to the requirements
of Regulations 14, 15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 23, 26 and 27)—

2.2.a

after “Bromazolam (8-bromo-1-methyl-6-phenyl-4 H
-[1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-a][1,4]benzodiazepine)” insert  “Brorphine” ;

2.2.b

after “Bufotenine” insert  “Butonitazene” ;

2.2.c

after “Clonazolam (6-(2-Chlorophenyl)-1-methyl-8-nitro-4 H
-[1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-a][1,4] benzodiazepine)” insert  “Clonitazene” ;

2.2.d

after “Concentrate of poppy-straw” insert  “Cumyl-PeGaClone” ;

2.2.e

after “3-Dimethylheptyl-11-hydroxyhexahydrocannabinol” insert—

Diphenidine

Ephenidine

Ethyleneoxynitazene

;

2.2.f

after “Etizolam” insert—

Etodesnitazene (etazene)

Etonitazene

;

2.2.g

after “Flubromazolam (8-Bromo-6-(2-fluorophenyl)-1-methyl-4 H
-[1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-a][1,4] benzodiazepine)” insert  “Flunitazene” ;

2.2.h

after “Isopropylphenidate (IPP or IPPD)” insert  “Isotonitazene” ;

2.2.i

after “Methcathinone” insert  “Methoxyphenidine” ;

2.2.j

after “Metizolam (4-(2-Chlorophenyl)-2-ethyl-6 H
-thieno[3,2-f][1,2,4]triazolo[4,3-a][1,4] diazepine)” insert—

Metodesnitazene (metazene)

Metonitazene

;

2.2.k

after “Propylphenidate” insert  “Protonitazene” ;

2.2.l

after “1-Cyclohexyl-4-(1,2-diphenylethyl)piperazine (MT-45)” insert—

N -Desethyl etonitazene

N -Desethylisotonitazene

N -Desethyl protonitazene

;

2.2.m

after “4-Methyl-5-(4-methylphenyl)-4,5-dihydrooxazol-2-amine (4,4’-DMAR)”
insert—

N -Piperidinyl-etonitazene (etonitazepipne)

N -Pyrrolidino-etonitazene (etoniazepyne)

N -Pyrrolidino protonitazene

.

2.3

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 (Controlled Drugs subject to the requirements of
regulations 14, 15, 16, 16A, 18, 19, 20, 21, 23, 26 and 27) omit “Clonitazene”
and “Etonitazene”.

2.4

In paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 4 (which specifies controlled drugs
subject to the requirements of regulations 22, 23, 26 and 27) after
“Pyrovalerone” insert  “Remimazolam” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 6th March
2024.       (L.S.)   Cathy Harrison   A senior officer of the Department of
Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Misuse of Drugs Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2002 ( S.R. 2002 No. 1 ) (“ the 2002 Regulations ”).

  Regulation 2(2) adds twenty-one substances (including seventeen synthetic
opioids, sixteen of which are nitazenes) to Schedule 1 to the 2002
Regulations. Regulation 2(3) removes two synthetic opioids, both of which are
nitazenes (clonitazene and etonitazene), from Schedule 2 to the 2002
Regulations, following their insertion into Schedule 1 to the 2002 Regulations
by regulations 2(2)(c) and (f). Regulation 2(4) adds remimazolam to Part 1 of
Schedule 4 to the 2002 Regulations. The Schedule in which a controlled drug is
placed affects the extent to which the drug can be lawfully imported,
exported, produced, supplied or possessed and dictates the controls that the
drug is subject to, such as the record-keeping, labelling and destruction
requirements in relation to that drug. [The controlled drugs placed in
Schedule 1 to the 2002 Regulations are those subject to the tightest controls,
requiring a licence from the Department of Health in order to access such
drugs. The controlled drugs placed in Part 1 of Schedule 4 to the 2002
Regulations are also subject to controls (albeit less strict than those for
controlled drugs placed in Schedule 1 to the 2002 Regulations), such as
record-keeping, furnishing of information and destruction of drugs.]

