Title: The Recall Petition (Petition Officers’ Charges) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: These Regulations prescribe the maximum amounts which a petition officer may recover in respect of a recall petition under the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (“the Act”) in respect of a recall petition.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/298

## The Recall Petition (Petition Officers’ Charges) Regulations 2024

    Representation Of The People

  Made   5th March 2024

  Coming into force   6th March 2024

      The Secretary of State, with the consent of the Treasury, makes these
Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by section 21(1) and (3) of,
and paragraph 3(1) and (2) of Schedule 1 to, the Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Recall Petition (Petition Officers’
Charges) Regulations 2024 and come into force on the day after the day on
which they are made.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

1.3

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Recall of MPs Act 2015;           “ Greater London
area ” means the area of—         the City of London, and           the London
boroughs described in Schedule 1 to the London Government Act 1963 ;
“ official petition notice ” means a notice sent in accordance with section 8
of the Act (notice of petition);           “ petition signing sheet ” means a
signing sheet which is to be made available for signing the recall petition in
accordance with section 9 of the Act (recall petition to be made available for
signing), other than a postal signing sheet;           “ postal signing sheet
” means a signing sheet issued to a postal signer in accordance with Part 5 of
the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016.

### Petition officers: maximum recoverable amount for specified services

2

2.1

The maximum recoverable amount (for the purposes of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1
to the Act) in relation to a recall petition for a service specified in column
1 of the table in Schedule 1 is to be determined in accordance with this
regulation.

2.2

Except in a case described in paragraph (3) or (4), the maximum recoverable
amount in relation to a specified service listed in column 1 is the amount
listed in the corresponding entry in column 2 of that table.

2.3

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is wholly or partly
within the Greater London area, the maximum recoverable amount in relation to
a specified service listed in column 1 is the amount listed in the
corresponding entry in column 3 of that table.

2.4

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is not wholly or
partly within the Greater London area but borders a constituency that is, the
maximum recoverable amount in relation to a specified service listed in column
1 is the amount listed in the corresponding entry in column 4 of that table.

### Petition officers: maximum recoverable amount for specified expenses

3

3.1

The maximum recoverable amount (for the purposes of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1
to the Act) in relation to a recall petition for an expense specified in
column 1 of the table in Schedule 2 is to be determined in accordance with
this regulation.

3.2

Except in a case described in paragraph (3) or (4), the maximum recoverable
amount in relation to a specified expense listed in column 1 is the amount
listed in the corresponding entry in column 2 of that table.

3.3

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is wholly or partly
within the Greater London area, the maximum recoverable amount in relation to
a specified expense listed in column 1 is the amount listed in the
corresponding entry in column 3 of that table.

3.4

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is not wholly or
partly within the Greater London area but borders a constituency that is, the
maximum recoverable amount in relation to a specified expense listed in column
1 is the amount listed in the corresponding entry in column 4 of that table.

### Overall maximum recoverable amount

4

4.1

The overall maximum recoverable amount (within the meaning of paragraph
3(1)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Act) in relation to a recall petition is to be
determined in accordance with this regulation.

4.2

Except in a case described in paragraph (3) or (4), the overall maximum
recoverable amount is the sum of the maximum recoverable amounts specified in,
or determined in accordance with—

4.2.a

regulation 2(2) (specified services), and

4.2.b

regulation 3(2) (specified expenses).

4.3

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is wholly or partly
within the Greater London area, the overall maximum recoverable amount is the
sum of the maximum recoverable amounts specified in, or determined in
accordance with—

4.3.a

regulation 2(3) (specified services), and

4.3.b

regulation 3(3) (specified expenses).

4.4

Where the constituency to which a recall petition relates is not wholly or
partly within the Greater London area but borders a constituency that is, the
overall maximum recoverable amount is the sum of the maximum recoverable
amounts specified in, or determined in accordance with—

4.4.a

regulation 2(4) (specified services), and

4.4.b

regulation 3(4) (specified expenses).

### Revocation and saving

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the Recall Petition (Petition Officers’ Charges)
Regulations 2016  are revoked.

5.2

The Recall Petition (Petition Officers’ Charges) Regulations 2016 continue to
have effect in respect of any recall petition for which the petition officer
sent an official petition notice prior to the date on which these Regulations
come into force.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Simon Hoare   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     5th March 2024
We consent to these Regulations       Joy Morrissey   Amanda Milling   Two of
the Lord Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     5th March 2024

  Maximum recoverable amount for specified services

Regulation 2

          (1)       Specified service         (2)       Maximum recoverable
amount         (3)       Maximum recoverable amount: constituency wholly or
partly in the Greater London area         (4)       Maximum recoverable
amount: constituency bordering the Greater London area       Petition
officer’s services £500.00 £625.00 £600.00 Persons employed in relation to the
preparation, revision and issue of official petition notices £1,700.69
£2,125.86 £2,040.83 Persons employed in relation to the count £737.36 £921.70
$884.83 Persons employed in relation to clerical or other assistance (other
than petition clerks or assistants of petition clerks) £2,556.49 £3,195.61
£3,067.79 Persons employed in relation to the preparation, issue and receipt
of postal signing sheets £6,438.98 £8,048.73 £7,726.78 Persons employed as
petition clerks to preside at designated signing places £18.38 per hour
between the hours of 9am and 5pm on a Monday to Friday and £27.58 per hour at
any other time £22.98 per hour between the hours of 9am and 5pm on a Monday to
Friday and £34.48 per hour at any other time £22.06 per hour between the hours
of 9am and 5pm on a Monday to Friday and £33.10 per hour at any other time
Petition clerks’ assistants’ services £14.18 per hour between the hours of 9am
and 5pm on a Monday to Friday and £21.27 per hour at any other time £17.73 per
hour between the hours of 9am and 5pm on a Monday to Friday and £26.59 per
hour at any other time £17.02 per hour between the hours of 9am and 5pm on a
Monday to Friday and £25.52 per hour at any other time

Maximum recoverable amount for specified expenses

Regulation 3

(1) Specified expense (2) Maximum recoverable amount (3) Maximum recoverable
amount: constituency wholly or partly in the Greater London area (4) Maximum
recoverable amount: constituency bordering the Greater London area Printing
and producing the petition signing sheets £3,669.65 £4,587.06 £4,403.58
Printing and producing the official petition notices and costs associated with
their issue £50,417.81 £63,022.27 £60, 501.38 Printing / producing the postal
signing sheets and costs associated with their issue and return £38,342.06
£47,927.57 £46,010.47 Office equipment and software in relation to the count
and verification £300.00 £375.00 £360.00   Renting, heating, lighting and
cleaning any building or room  £9,932.50 per designated signing place
£12,415.62 per designated signing place £11,918.99 per designated signing
place Delivery of training and associated costs £400.00 £500.00 £480.00 The
payment of persons employed as petition clerks, or assistants of such clerks,
or persons employed in relation to the count, who attend training for those
purposes £30.00 per petition clerk / assistant whose primary duties are in
connection with a petition signing place £37.50 per petition clerk / assistant
whose primary duties are in connection with a petition signing place £36.00
per petition clerk / assistant whose primary duties are in connection with a
petition signing place Taken together– (a) printing or otherwise producing
and, where appropriate, publishing notices and any other documents required by
or under any enactment for or in connection with the recall petition; (b)
providing and transporting ballot boxes, petition signing sheets and other
materials and equipment needed for administration of the recall petition; (c)
providing security, including secure storage of ballot boxes, petition signing
sheets and other materials and equipment needed for the administration of the
recall petition; (d) providing stationery and meeting postage, telephone,
printing, translation and banking costs and the costs of other miscellaneous
items; (e) adapting or restoring to normal use any room or building designated
as a petition signing place, including transportation costs for temporary
adaptations that cannot be securely stored in the building or room overnight;
(f) travel and overnight subsistence for the petition officer and any person
appointed to assist the petition officer. £1,333.50 £1,666.88 £1,600.20

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations prescribe the maximum amounts which a petition officer may
recover in respect of a recall petition under the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (“
the Act ”) in respect of a recall petition.

  Under paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 1 to the Act, a petition officer may
recover their charges for services rendered, or expenses incurred, in respect
of a recall petition, if the services were necessarily rendered, and expenses
necessarily incurred, for the effective and efficient performance of that
officer’s functions; and those charges do not exceed the amount specified in,
or determined in accordance with, Regulations made by the Minister. Paragraph
3(2) of Schedule 1 to the Act enables those Regulations to specify a maximum
recoverable amount for services or expenses of any specified description.

  Regulation 2, together with Schedule 1, specifies the maximum recoverable
amounts for the kinds of specified services that a petition officer may
recover. There are varying maximum amount depending on the location of the
constituency.

  Regulation 3, together with Schedule 2, specifies the maximum recoverable
amounts for the kinds of specified expenses that a petition officer may
recover. Again, the maximum amounts differ depending on the location of the
constituency.

  Regulation 4 determines the overall maximum recoverable amount for the
purposes of paragraph 3(1)(b) of Schedule 1 to the Act.

  An impact assessment has not been prepared for this instrument as no impact
on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

