Title: The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Search, Recovery of Cryptoassets and Investigations: Codes of Practice) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-18
Description: This Order brings into operation two revised codes of practice and one new code of practice issued by the Department of Justice under the Proceeds of Crime Act2002 (c.29)(“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/139

## The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Search, Recovery of Cryptoassets and Investigations: Codes of Practice) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Proceeds Of Crime

  Made   25th June 2024

  Coming into operation   17th July 2024

      The Department of Justice makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 195T(5); section 303I(4) (as applied by section
303Z25(1)); and section 377ZA(4) of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002  (“ the Act
”).       The Department of Justice has—     a     under section 195T(7) of
the Act, revised the code of practice prepared under section 195T(1) of the
Act (in connection with powers under the Act relating to the search, seizure
and detention of property) and, in accordance with section 195T(3) of the Act,
published a draft of the revised code of practice, considered any
representations made about the draft, modified the draft as the Department
thought appropriate in light of any such representations and, under section
195T(4) of the Act, laid a draft of the revised code of practice before the
Assembly;         b     under section 303I(1) of the Act, as applied by
section 303Z25(1) of the Act, prepared a code of practice (in connection with
powers under the Act relating to the recovery of cryptoassets: search powers)
and, in accordance with section 303I(2) of the Act, as so applied, published a
draft of the code of practice, considered any representations made about the
draft, modified the draft as the Department thought appropriate in light of
any such representations and, under section 303I(3) of the Act, laid a draft
code of practice before the Assembly; and         c     under section 377ZA(9)
of the Act, revised the code of practice prepared under section 377ZA(1) of
the Act (in connection with powers under the Act relating to investigations)
and, in accordance with section 377ZA(2) of the Act, published a draft of the
revised code of practice, considered any representations made about the draft,
modified the draft as the Department thought appropriate in light of any such
representations and, under section 377ZA(3) of the Act, laid a draft of the
revised code of practice before the Assembly.           In accordance with
section 459(7B)  of the Act, a draft of this order was laid before and
approved by a resolution of the Assembly.           Accordingly, the
Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 459(2)
of the Act, makes the following Order.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Search, Recovery of
Cryptoassets and Investigations: Codes of Practice) Order (Northern Ireland)
2024 and it comes into operation on 17th July 2024.

### Revised codes of practice

2

The revised codes of practice with the following titles, each laid in draft
before the Assembly on 17th May 2024, come into operation on 17th July 2024—

2.a

“Code of Practice issued under section 195T of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002:
Search, Seizure and Detention of Property (Northern Ireland)”; and

2.b

“Code of Practice issued under section 377ZA of the Proceeds of Crime Act
2002: Investigations (Northern Ireland)”.

### New code of practice

3

The new code of practice entitled “Code of Practice issued under section
303Z25 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002: Recovery of Cryptoassets and Related
Items — Search Powers (Northern Ireland)”, and laid in draft before the
Assembly on 17th May 2024, comes into operation on 17th July 2024.

### Revocations

4

The following Orders are revoked—

4.a

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Search, Seizure and Detention of Property:
Code of Practice) Order (Northern Ireland) 2021 ; and

4.b

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (Investigations: Code of Practice) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2021 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 25th June
2024         Naomi Long   Minister of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order brings into operation two revised codes of practice and one new
code of practice issued by the Department of Justice under the Proceeds of
Crime Act 2002 (c.29) (“ the Act ”).

  They are necessitated by certain amendments made to the Act by the Economic
Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 (c.56)  (“ the 2023 Act ”). The
amendments made by the 2023 Act concern cryptoassets.

  Articles 2 and 3 bring into operation, on 17th July 2024:         a revised
code of practice relating to the powers of certain officers under Part 2 of
the Act to search for, seize and detain property, including cryptoassets and
related items;           a revised code of practice relating to the
investigation powers of certain officers under Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Act,
including cryptoassets and related items; and           a new code of practice
relating to the powers of certain officers under Part 5 of the Act to search
for, seize and detain cryptoassets and related items.

  Article 4 revokes two previous Orders which brought into force two codes of
practice in 2021.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this order as there is no
or minimal impact on the business, charities or voluntary bodies. A copy of
the Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside the Order on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

