Title: The Pension Schemes Act 2021 (Commencement No. 7 and Transitional Provisions) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-15
Description: This Order brings into operation section 129(a) of, and Part 1 of Schedule 11 to, the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”), in so far as they are not already in operation, on 6th April 2024. It also contains transitional provisions.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/89

## The Pension Schemes Act 2021 (Commencement No. 7 and Transitional Provisions) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Pensions

  Made   5th April 2024

      The Department for Communities makes the following Order in exercise of
the powers conferred by section 131(2), (4) and (6) of the Pension Schemes Act
2021 .

### Citation

1

This Order may be cited as the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (Commencement No. 7
and Transitional Provisions) Order (Northern Ireland) 2024.

### Appointed day

2

The day appointed for the coming into operation of the following provisions of
the Pension Schemes Act 2021, in so far as they are not already in operation ,
is 6th April 2024—

2.a

section 129(a) (further provision relating to pension schemes: Northern
Ireland), and

2.b

Part 1 of Schedule 11 (funding of defined benefit schemes).

### Transitional provisions

3

Article 201 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005  (the statutory
funding objective), in so far as it relates to a particular pension scheme, is
to continue to have effect without the amendment made by paragraph 3 of
Schedule 11 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021, until such time as that scheme is
required to have, in accordance with regulations made under Article 200A of
that Order, a funding and investment strategy .

4

Article 203 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 (actuarial
valuations and reports), in so far as it relates to a particular pension
scheme, is to continue to have effect without the amendment made by paragraph
4 of Schedule 11 to the Pension Schemes Act 2021, until such time as that
scheme obtains an actuarial valuation with an effective date  on or after 22nd
September 2024.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 5th
April 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order brings into operation section 129(a) of, and Part 1 of Schedule
11 to, the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (“ the 2021 Act ”), in so far as they are
not already in operation, on 6th April 2024. It also contains transitional
provisions.

  Part 1 of Schedule 11 to the 2021 Act (funding of defined benefit schemes)—
inserts Articles 200A (funding and investment strategy) and 200B (statement of
strategy) into the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 (“ the 2005 Order
”). Article 200A requires defined benefit pension scheme trustees or managers
to have a funding and investment strategy for ensuring that pensions and other
scheme benefits can be provided over the long term. The strategy must specify
the funding level and the investments that trustees or managers intend the
scheme to have at a relevant date or dates. Article 200B requires trustees or
managers to prepare a statement of strategy that sets out their funding and
investment strategy. Trustees or managers must include their assessment of how
successfully the strategy is being implemented and the key risks faced by the
scheme along with any mitigations. The statement of strategy must be signed by
the chair of the trustee board and where a scheme does not have a chair, they
must appoint one;           amends Articles 201 (the statutory funding
objective), 203 (actuarial valuations and reports), 205 (recovery plan), 208
(matters requiring agreement of employer) and 210 (powers of the Pensions
Regulator) of the 2005 Order. The amendment to Article 201 inserts paragraph
(2A) which requires the scheme’s technical provisions to be calculated in a
way that is consistent with the scheme’s funding and investment strategy, as
set out in the scheme’s statement of strategy. The amendment to Article 203
inserts paragraph (7A) requiring trustees or managers to send a copy of the
actuarial valuation to the Pensions Regulator, together with such other
information as may be prescribed. The amendment to Article 205 inserts
paragraph (3A) which provides regulation making powers to prescribe the
matters that should be considered or the principles to be followed in
determining whether a recovery plan is appropriate having regard to the nature
and circumstances of the scheme. The amendment to Article 208 adds the funding
and investment strategy to the matters requiring the agreement of the
employer. The amendments to Article 210 extend the Pension Regulator’s powers
to oversee the new funding and investment strategy;           makes minor and
consequential amendments to Articles 55 (registrable information), 75
(offences of providing false or misleading information) and 288 (Assembly etc.
control of orders and regulations) of the 2005 Order.

  Article 3 of this Order is a transitional provision in relation to the
commencement of paragraph 3 of Schedule 11 to the 2021 Act. It provides that
Article 201 of the 2005 Order remains in effect in relation to a particular
pension scheme, without the inserted paragraph (2A), until that scheme is
required to have a funding and investment strategy.

  Article 4 of this Order is a transitional provision in relation to the
commencement of paragraph 4 of Schedule 11 to the 2021 Act. It provides that
Article 203 of the 2005 Order remains in effect in relation to a particular
pension scheme, without the inserted paragraph (7A), until that scheme obtains
an actuarial valuation with an effective date on or after 22nd September 2024.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCEMENT ORDERS

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  The following provisions of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 have been brought
into operation by earlier commencement orders as from the dates shown.
Provision Date of Commencement S.R. No.   Part 2 (partially) 1st August 2022
2022 No. 197 (C. 22) Section 99 (partially) 29th April 2022 2022 No. 173 (C.
19) Section 117 (partially) 1st October 2021 2021 No. 240 (C. 8) (partially)
1st October 2021 2021 No. 271 (C. 11) (partially) 28th July 2022 2022 No. 197
(C. 22) (partially) 1st August 2022 2022 No. 197 (C. 22) Section 120
(partially) 31st October 2022 2022 No. 291 (C. 27) Section 129 (partially) 1st
October 2021 2021 No. 240  (C. 8) (partially) 29th September 2021 2021 No. 271
(C. 11) (partially) 1st October 2021 2021 No. 271 (C. 11) (partially) 30th
November 2021 2021 No. 300 (C. 12) (partially) 1st August 2022 2022 No. 197
(C. 22) Schedule 6 (partially) 29th April 2022 2022 No. 173 (C. 19) Schedule 8
(partially) 1st October 2021 2021 No. 240 (C. 8) (partially) 1st October 2021
2021 No. 271 (C. 11) (partially) 28th July 2022 2022 No. 197 (C. 22)
(partially) 1st August 2022 2022 No. 197 (C. 22) Schedule 9 (partially) 31st
October 2022 2022 No. 291 (C. 27) Schedule 11 (partially) 1st October 2021
2021 No. 240 (C. 8) (partially) 29th September 2021 2021 No. 271 (C. 11)
(partially) 1st October 2021 2021 No. 271 (C. 11) (partially) 30th November
2021 2021 No. 300 (C. 12) (partially) 1st August 2022 2022 No. 197 (C. 22)

