Title: The Period Products (Department of Justice Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations are made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022. They specify the public service bodies within the functions of the Department of Justice that are subject to the duty to ensure that period products are obtainable free of charge by persons on their premises who need to use them. They provide, for the purposes of the Act, descriptions of the premises to be treated as premises.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/103

## The Period Products (Department of Justice Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Period Products (free Provision)

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   29th April 2024

  Coming into operation   12th May 2024

      The Department of Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by
sections 2(1), (7)(a) and (b) and (13) of the Period Products (Free Provision)
Act (Northern Ireland) 2022  and after consultation in accordance with section
2(8)(a) of that Act, makes the following Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

Thes Regulations may be cited as the Period Products (Department of Justice
Specified Public Service Bodies) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall
come into operation on 12th May 2024.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ accommodation ” means accommodation leased or owned by a specific
public service body for the purpose of effecting its statutory functions;
“ PSNI ” means the Police Service of Northern Ireland as established under the
Police (Northern Ireland) Act 2000 ;           “ NIPB ” means the Northern
Ireland Policing Board as established under the Police (Northern Ireland) Act
2000;           “ OPONI ” means the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland as
established under the Police (Northern Ireland) Act 1998 ;           “ PBNI ”
means the Probation Board for Northern Ireland as established under the
Probation Board (Northern Ireland) Order 1982 ;           “ CJINI ” means the
office of the Chief Inspector of Criminal Justice in Northern Ireland as
established under the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2002 ;           “ NIPF ”
means the Northern Ireland Police Fund as established under the Northern
Ireland Police Fund Regulations 2016 ;           “ RUCGF ” means The Royal
Ulster Constabulary GC Foundation as established under the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 2000;           “ PRRT ” means the Police Rehabilitation and
Retraining Trust as established under the Police Rehabilitation and Retaining
Trust Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 ;           “ service users ” means
persons who are in the premises of a specified public service body to make use
of the services to the public provided there by the specified public body;
“ staff ” means employees or agency workers in the premises of a specified
public service body;           “ the Act ” means the Period Products (Free
Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022; and           “ visitors ” means
persons with legitimate reason for being in the premises of a specified public
service body, such as attending meetings or events or providing a function or
service.

### Specified public service bodies

3

The bodies listed in the Schedule are specified as public service as public
service bodies to which the duty in section 2(3) of the Act applies.

### Description of premises and persons

4

For the purposes of section 2(3) of the Act—

4.a

the descriptions of premises listed in column 2 of the Table below are to be
treated as being premises of the specified public service body listed at
column 1; and

4.b

the descriptions of persons listed in column 3 of the Table below are to be
treated as being in the premises of the specified public body listed at column
1.

  Table 1       Column 1 – Specified Public Service Body Column 2 –
Descriptions of Premises Column 3 – Descriptions of Persons in Premises   (a)
(i) PSNI All staffed buildings used for the delivery to the public and which
are normally open to the public     (i) service users       (ii) staff
(iii) visitors     (a) (ii) PSNI PSNI administrative accommodation     (i)
staff       (ii) visitors     (b) (i) NIPB All staffed buildings used for the
delivery to the public and which are normally open to the public     (i)
service users       (ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (b) (ii) NIPB NIPB
administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii) visitors     (c) (i)
OPONI All staffed buildings used for the delivery to the public and which are
normally open to the public     (i) service users       (ii) staff       (iii)
visitors     (c) (ii) OPONI OPONI administrative accommodation     (i) staff
(ii) visitors     (d) (i) PBNI All staffed buildings used for the delivery to
the public and which are normally open to the public     (i) service users
(ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (d) (ii) PBNI PBNI administrative
accommodation     (i) staff       (ii) visitors     (e) (i) CJINI All staffed
buildings used for the delivery to the public and which are normally open to
the public     (i) service users       (ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (e)
(ii) CJINI CJINI administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii)
visitors     (f) (i) NIPF All staffed buildings used for the delivery to the
public and which are normally open to the public     (i) service users
(ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (f) (ii) NIPF NIPF administrative
accommodation     (i) staff       (ii) visitors     (g) (i) RUCGCF All staffed
buildings used for the delivery to the public which are normally open to the
public     (i) service users       (ii) staff       (iii) visitors     (g)
(ii) RUCGCF RUCGCF administrative accommodation     (i) staff       (ii)
visitors     (h) (i) PRRT All staffed buildings used for the delivery to the
public which are normally open to the public     (i) service users       (ii)
staff       (iii) visitors     (h) (ii) PRRT PRRT administrative accommodation
(i) staff       (ii) visitors

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 29th April
2024         Naomi Long   Minister of Justice

  Specified Public Service Bodies

Regulation 3

  Public Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI)

  Northern Ireland Policing Board (NIPB)

  Office of the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland (OPONI)

  Probation Board for Northern Ireland (PBNI)

  Chief Inspector of Criminal Justice in Northern Ireland (CJINI)

  Northern Ireland Police Fund (NIPF)

  Royal Ulster Constabulary GC Foundation (RUCGCF)

  Police Rehabilitation and Retraining Trust (PRRT)

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under section 2(1) of the Period Products (Free
Provision) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022. They specify the public service bodies
within the functions of the Department of Justice that are subject to the duty
to ensure that period products are obtainable free of charge by persons on
their premises who need to use them. They provide, for the purposes of the
Act, descriptions of the premises to be treated as premises.

  These Regulations and Explanatory Memorandum have been produced and are
available online alongside this Statutory Rule at  www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr
.

