Title: The Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-07-05
Description: These Regulations amend the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Companies, Overseas Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships) Regulations 2012 (S.I. 2012/1907 as amended by S.I. 2016/621) (“the 2012 Regulations”), the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Limited Partnerships and Newspaper Proprietors) Regulations 2009 (S.I. 2009/2392) (“the 2009 Regulations”) and the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (European Economic Interest Grouping and European Public Limited-Liability Company) Regulations 2012 (S.I. 2012/1908) which require payment of fees in respect of functions performed by the registrar of companies. These Regulations amend existing fees and introduce new fees following amendments made to section 1063 of the Companies Act 2006 (c. 46) by the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023 (c. 56). These amendments provide for the cost of investigation and enforcement activities to be taken into account by the Secretary of State when setting fees. These Regulations increase the fees payable at incorporation or registration of companies and certain other entities and those paid with the filing of the first confirmation statement each year (see section 853A of the Companies Act 2006) to provide funding for enforcement activities that will help to combat economic crime. These Regulations also increase the fees charged for other services that are provided by Companies House, whose officials act on behalf of the registrar, to reflect the registrar’s increased costs.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/155

## The Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Amendment) Regulations 2024

    FEES AND CHARGES

  Made   14th February 2024

  Laid before Parliament   19th February 2024

  Coming into force   1st May 2024

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1063(1) to (3A) and 1292(1)(c) of the Companies Act 2006
.

### INTRODUCTORY

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Registrar of Companies (Fees)
(Amendment) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st May 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### AMENDMENT TO THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (FEES) (COMPANIES, OVERSEAS COMPANIES AND LIMITED LIABILITY PARTNERSHIPS) REGULATIONS 2012

2

The Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Companies, Overseas Companies and Limited
Liability Partnerships) Regulations 2012  is amended as follows.

3

Omit regulation 6 (fees payable in respect of the disclosure of protected
information).

4

Schedule 1 (the performance of functions relating to the receipt of documents
by the registrar and their registration) is amended as follows—

4.a

in paragraph 2 (means of electronic delivery to the registrar), before the
definition of “Web Incorporation Service” insert—

“ Document Upload Service ” means a service by which documents can be
delivered to the registrar electronically in a Portable Document Format (pdf);

;

4.b

in paragraph 8, for the row of the table containing sub-paragraph (a)
substitute—

a for the registration of a company under section 14 of the 2006 Act— i where
the required documents are delivered by means of the Web Incorporation
Service, £50.00 ii where the required documents are delivered by means of the
Software Incorporation Service for same day registration, £78.00 iii where the
required documents are delivered by means of the Software Incorporation
Service other than for same day registration, £50.00 iv where the required
documents are delivered in hard copy form; £71.00

4.c

in paragraph 8(b) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£20.00” substitute
“£71.00” ;

4.d

in paragraph 8, for the rows of the table containing sub-paragraphs (c) to (e)
substitute—

c for the re-registration of a company under Part 7 of the 2006 Act; £71.00 d
for the re-registration of a company as a private company under section 651 of
the 2006 Act; £71.00 e for the re-registration of a company as a private
company under section 665 of the 2006 Act; £71.00

4.e

in paragraph 8(f)—

4.e.i

for paragraph (i) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£40.00” substitute
“£62.00” ,

4.e.ii

for paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£13.00”
substitute  “£34.00” ;

4.f

in paragraph 8(g)—

4.f.i

omit paragraph (i) and the fee corresponding to it in column 2 (amount of
fee),

4.f.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the first column (matter in relation to which fee is
payable) omit “other than for same day registration”,

4.f.iii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£10.00” substitute
“£30.00” ,

4.f.iv

in paragraph (iii) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£30.00”
substitute  “£83.00” ,

4.f.v

in paragraph (iv) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£8.00” substitute
“£20.00” ;

4.g

in paragraph 8(h)(i) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£23.00”
substitute  “£24.00” ;

4.h

in paragraph 8, for the row of the table containing sub-paragraph (i)
substitute—

i for the striking off the register of a company’s name payable on an
application under section 1003 of the 2006 Act— i where the documents are
delivered in hard copy form, £44.00 ii where the documents are delivered by
electronic means; £33.00

4.i

in paragraph 8(j)—

4.i.i

in paragraph (i) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£50.00” substitute
“£136.00” ,

4.i.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£10.00” substitute
“£33.00” ,

4.i.iii

after paragraph (ii), for the semi-colon substitute a comma and insert—

iii where the required documents are delivered by means of the Document Upload
Service for same day registration, £136.00 iv where the required documents are
delivered by means of the Document Upload Service other than for same day
registration; £33.00

4.j

in paragraph 8(k)—

4.j.i

in paragraph (i) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£50.00” substitute
“£136.00” ,

4.j.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fee) for “£10.00” substitute
“£33.00” ,

4.j.iii

after paragraph (ii), for the semi-colon substitute a comma and insert—

iii where the required documents are delivered by means of the Document Upload
Service for same day registration, £136.00 iv where the required documents are
delivered by means of the Document Upload Service other than for same day
registration; £33.00

4.k

after paragraph 8(k), insert—

l for an application to the registrar to restore to the register a company,
other than an overseas company, that has been struck off the register under
Part 31 of the 2006 Act (dissolution and restoration to the register). £468.00

4.l

in paragraph 10(a)—

4.l.i

  in   paragraph (i) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£30.00”
substitute  “£78.00” ,

4.l.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£10.00”
substitute  “£50.00” ,

4.l.iii

omit paragraph (iii) and the fee corresponding to it in column 2 (amount of
fee),

4.l.iv

in paragraph (iv) in the first column (matter in relation to which fee is
payable) omit “other than for same day registration except as provided in
paragraph (v)”,

4.l.v

in paragraph (iv) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£40.00”
substitute  “£71.00” ,

4.l.vi

omit paragraph (v) and the fee corresponding to it in column 2 (amount of
fee);

4.m

in paragraph 10(b)—

4.m.i

in paragraph (i) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£40.00” substitute
“£62.00” ,

4.m.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£13.00”
substitute  “£34.00” ;

4.n

in paragraph 10(c)—

4.n.i

omit paragraph (i) and the fee corresponding to it in column 2 (amount of
fee),

4.n.ii

in paragraph (ii) in the first column (matter in relation to which fee is
payable) omit “other than for same day registration”,

4.n.iii

in paragraph (ii) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£10.00”
substitute  “£30.00” ,

4.n.iv

in paragraph (iii) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£30.00”
substitute  “£83.00” ,

4.n.v

in paragraph (iv) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£8.00” substitute
“£20.00” ;

4.o

in paragraph 10(d)(i) in the second column (amount of fees) for “£23.00”
substitute  “£24.00” ;

4.p

in paragraph 10, for the row of the table containing sub-paragraph (e)
substitute—

e for the striking off of a limited liability partnership’s name payable on an
application under section 1003 of the 2006 Act as applied to the limited
liability partnership by regulation 51 of the LLP Regulations— i where the
application is delivered in hard copy form, £44.00 ii where the application is
delivered by electronic means; £33.00 f for an application to the registrar to
restore to the register a limited liability partnership, that has been struck
off the register under Part 31 of the 2006 Act (dissolution and restoration to
the register) as applied by regulation 56 of the LLP Regulations. £468.00

4.q

in paragraph 11, for the rows of the table containing sub-paragraphs (a) to
(d) substitute—

a for the registration of documents required to be delivered to the registrar
under Part 2 of the OC Regulations in respect of the opening of an
establishment in the United Kingdom; £71.00 b for the registration of an
alteration to the registered particulars of an overseas company under Part 3
of the OC Regulations where the alteration is a change of the name of the
overseas company; £30.00 c for the registration of an alternative name
specified in accordance with section 1048 of the 2006 Act; £30.00 d for the
registration of all relevant documents in respect of an overseas company
delivered during a relevant period payable at the end of that period on
registration of the accounting documents or, as the case may be, the annual
accounts of the overseas company required to be delivered to the registrar
under Parts 5 and 6 of the OC Regulations— i where the required documents are
delivered in hard copy form, £62.00 ii where the required documents are
delivered by electronic means. £34.00

5

Omit Schedule 3 (the performance of functions relating to the disclosure of
protected information).

### AMENDMENT TO THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (FEES) (LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS AND NEWSPAPER PROPRIETORS) REGULATIONS 2009

6

6.1

Schedule 1 to the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Limited Partnerships and
Newspaper Proprietors) Regulations 2009  (the performance of functions
relating to the registration of documents by the registrar) is amended as
follows.

6.2

In paragraph 1(1), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ the Document Upload Service ” means a service by which documents can
be delivered to the registrar electronically in a Portable Document Format
(pdf);           “ limited partnership ” means a partnership registered under
the LP Act;           “ relevant document ” means any document required or
authorised to be delivered to the registrar in respect of a Scottish
qualifying partnership or Scottish limited partnership by a provision
specified in regulation 35(1) and (2) of the Scottish Partnership PSC
Regulations;           “ relevant period ” means—         in relation to a
Scottish qualifying partnership the period of 12 months beginning on the day
of the Scottish qualifying partnership’s registration, or each period of 12
months beginning with the day after the end of the previous relevant period,
in relation to a Scottish limited partnership—         if the partnership was
registered before 26th June 2017, the period beginning on 24th July 2017 and
ending on the day before the first anniversary of its registration date
occurring after 26th June 2017, or           if the partnership was registered
on or after 26th June 2017, the period of 12 months beginning on its
registration date, or           each period of 12 months beginning with the
day after the end of the previous relevant period;                       “
Scottish limited partnership ” means a limited partnership registered in
Scotland;           “ Scottish Partnership PSC Regulations ” means the
Scottish Partnerships (Register of People with Significant Control)
Regulations 2017 ;           “ Scottish qualifying partnership ” means a
general partnership constituted under the law of Scotland, during any period
in which it is a qualifying partnership under regulation 3 of the Partnership
(Accounts) Regulations 2008 .

.

6.3

In paragraph 5, for the table, substitute—

    Matter in relation to which a fee is payable Amount of fee   For the
registration of a limited partnership under section 8 of the LP Act . £71.00

6.4

After paragraph 5, insert—

6.4.5A

Scottish Limited Partnership

  In respect of the performance by the registrar of her functions in relation
to the register of Scottish limited partnerships, the fee specified in
relation to the matter below is payable on the registration of the documents
so delivered relating to that matter—     Matter in relation to which fee is
payable Amount of fee   For the registration of all relevant documents in
respect of a Scottish limited partnership delivered during a relevant period
on the registration of a confirmation statement under regulation 35 of the
Scottish Partnership PSC Regulations with a confirmation date that falls
within the relevant period, whether the confirmation statement is delivered in
hard copy form or by means of the Document Upload Service, unless a
confirmation statement with a confirmation date that falls in the same
relevant period has been registered. £62.00

6.5

After paragraph 5A, as inserted by paragraph (4), insert—

6.5.5B

Scottish Qualifying Partnership

  In respect of the performance by the registrar of her functions in relation
to the registration of documents delivered to her in respect of Scottish
qualifying partnerships, the fee specified in relation to the matter below is
payable on the registration of the documents so delivered relating to that
matter—     Matter in relation to which fee is payable Amount of fee       a
for the registration of a Scottish qualifying partnership under regulation 5
of the Scottish Partnership PSC Regulations,       £71.00     b     for the
registration of all relevant documents in respect of a Scottish qualifying
partnership delivered during a relevant period on the registration of a
confirmation statement under regulation 35 of the Scottish Partnership PSC
Regulations with a confirmation date that falls within the relevant period,
whether the confirmation statement is delivered in hard copy form or by means
of the Document Upload Service, unless a confirmation statement with a
confirmation date that falls in the same relevant period has been registered.
£62.00

### AMENDMENT TO THE REGISTRAR OF COMPANIES (FEES) (EUROPEAN ECONOMIC INTEREST GROUPING AND EUROPEAN PUBLIC LIMITED-LIABILITY COMPANY) REGULATIONS 2012

7

7.1

Schedule 1 to the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (European Economic Interest
Grouping and European Public Limited-Liability Company) Regulations 2012  (the
performance of functions relating to the registration of documents by the
registrar) is amended as follows.

7.2

In the second column (amount of fees) in the table in paragraph 5—

7.2.a

in sub-paragraph (b), for “£20.00” substitute  “£71.00” ;

7.2.b

in sub-paragraph (c), for “£10.00” substitute  “£30.00” ;

7.2.c

in sub-paragraph (d), for “£23.00” substitute  “£24.00” .

7.3

In the second column (amount of fees) in the table in paragraph 6, in row (b),
for “£20.00” substitute  “£71.00” .

### TRANSITIONAL PROVISION

8

The amendments made by regulations 4, 6 and 7 do not have effect where any
document delivered to the registrar on or before   30th April 2024   is
registered on or after   1st May 2024 .

      Kevin Hollinrake   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department
for Business and Trade     14th February 2024

## Explanatory Note

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Companies,
Overseas Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships) Regulations 2012 ( S.I.
2012/1907  as amended by  S.I. 2016/621 ) (“ the 2012 Regulations ”), the
Registrar of Companies (Fees) (Limited Partnerships and Newspaper Proprietors)
Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/2392 ) (“ the 2009 Regulations ”) and the
Registrar of Companies (Fees) (European Economic Interest Grouping and
European Public Limited-Liability Company) Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1908 )
which require payment of fees in respect of functions performed by the
registrar of companies. These Regulations amend existing fees and introduce
new fees following amendments made to section 1063 of the Companies Act  2006
(c. 46)  by the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act  2023 (c. 56) .
These amendments provide for the cost of investigation and enforcement
activities to be taken into account by the Secretary of State when setting
fees. These Regulations increase the fees payable at incorporation or
registration of companies and certain other entities and those paid with the
filing of the first confirmation statement each year (see section 853A of the
Companies Act 2006) to provide funding for enforcement activities that will
help to combat economic crime. These Regulations also increase the fees
charged for other services that are provided by Companies House, whose
officials act on behalf of the registrar, to reflect the registrar’s increased
costs.

  Regulation 3 omits regulation 6 (fees payable in respect of the disclosure
of protected information) of the 2012 Regulations.

  Regulation 4(a) amends Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations to include in the
definition at paragraph 2 (means of electronic delivery to the registrar) the
Companies House document upload service. This service allows documents which
would ordinarily be delivered to the registrar in hard copy form to be
uploaded and delivered electronically in a Portable Document Format (pdf).

  Regulation 4(b) amends fees in paragraphs 8, 10 and 11 of Schedule 1 to the
2012 Regulations as follows—     a     increases incorporation fees, annual
confirmation statements fees, registration fees and fees for registering
annual accounts as a result of changes made to section 1063 of the Companies
Act 2006 by the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023. Amendment
to other fees are as a result of a review of Companies House fees,         b
removes fees in paragraphs 8, 10 and 11 of Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations
in relation to documents delivered in hard copy form for same day registration
where this service is no longer provided by the registrar,         c
removes fees in paragraph 8 of the 2012 Regulations relating to the
incorporation of Community Interest Companies and Unlimited Companies. This is
as a result of the differential no longer being applicable due to these
companies now being able to file by means of electronic delivery. The standard
hard copy fees would apply for paper registration,         d     amends sub-
paragraphs 8(j) and (k) of Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations to allow
registration of a reduction of share capital under sections 644 and 649 of the
Companies Act 2006 to be delivered electronically via the Companies House
document upload service,         e     amends sub-paragraphs 8(i) and 10(e) of
Schedule 1 to the 2012 Regulations to introduce new fees relating to an
application to strike off a company or limited liability partnership to be
made by electronic means,         f     amends paragraphs 8 and 10 of Schedule
1 to the 2012 Regulations by inserting new sub-paragraph 8(l) regarding fees
for administrative company restoration and new sub-paragraph 10(f) for
administrative restoration of limited liability partnerships. The fees for
which were previously set administratively,         g     amends paragraph 11
to remove the fees for same day registration where this service is no longer
provided by the registrar and increases the fees in respect of registration of
documents for overseas companies.

  Regulation 5 removes Schedule 3 (the performance of functions relating to
the disclosure of protected information) to the 2012 Regulations.

  Regulation 6(2) amends paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 1 to the 2009 Regulations
by inserting definitions relevant to Scottish limited partnerships and
Scottish qualifying partnerships.

  Regulation 6(3) substitutes the table in paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to  the
2009 Regulations to remove the same day registration fee and to insert the new
increased fee for registration of a limited partnership.

  Regulation 6(4) inserts new paragraph 5A in Schedule 1 to the 2009
Regulations which provides for fees payable in relation to the registration of
a confirmation statement for a Scottish limited partnership. The new paragraph
also makes fee provision for delivery of the relevant documents electronically
via the Companies House document upload service.

  Regulation 6(5) inserts new paragraph 5B in Schedule 1 to the 2009
Regulations which inserts a fee for registration of a Scottish qualifying
partnership. It also provides for fees payable in relation to the confirmation
statement of a Scottish qualifying partnership. The new paragraph also makes
fee provision for delivery of the relevant documents electronically via the
Companies House document upload service.

  Regulation 7 amends fees in Schedule 1 to the Registrar of Companies (Fees)
(European Economic Interest Grouping and European Public Limited-Liability
Company) Regulations 2012 as a result of changes made to section 1063 of the
Companies Act 2006 by the Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act 2023.

  Regulation 8 sets out a transitional provision.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

