Title: The Personal Protective Equipment at Work (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-10-22
Description: These Regulations amend the Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993 (“the PPER 1993”) to extend the duties contained in regulations 4 to 11 of the PPER 1993 from employees to workers, and to update cross-references to other legislation.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/161

## The Personal Protective Equipment at Work (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Health And Safety

  Made   12th September 2024

  Coming into operation   21st October 2024

      The Department for the Economy, being the Department concerned , makes
these Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 2(4), (5),
17(1), (2), (3)(b) of, and paragraphs 10 and 13 of Schedule 3 to the Health
and Safety at Work (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 (“ the 1978 Order ”) .
These Regulations give effect without modifications to proposals submitted to
the Department for the Economy by the Health and Safety Executive for Northern
Ireland under Article 13(1A) of the 1978 Order . Before submitting those
proposals to the Department for the Economy, the Health and Safety Executive
for Northern Ireland consulted such bodies that appeared to be appropriate as
required by Article 46(3) of the 1978 Order .

### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Personal Protective Equipment at Work
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and come into operation on
21st October 2024.

### The Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993

2

2.1

The Personal Protective Equipment at Work Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993
are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (5).

2.2

For regulation 2 (interpretation) substitute—

In these Regulations— “ the 1978 Order ” means the Health and Safety at Work
(Northern Ireland) Order 1978; “ employer ”, in relation to a worker, means
the person by whom the worker is employed under their worker’s contract; “
offensive weapon ” means any article made or adapted for use for causing
injury to the person, or intended by the person having it with them for such
use by them or by some other person; “personal protective equipment”, unless
the context requires otherwise, means all equipment (including clothing
affording protection against the weather) which is intended to be worn or held
by a person at work and which protects the person against one or more risks to
that person’s health and safety, and any addition or accessory designed to
meet that objective; “ worker ” means an individual who has entered into or
works under— a contract of employment; any contract, whether express or
implied and (if it is express) whether oral or in writing, whereby the
individual undertakes to do or perform personally any work or services for
another party to the contract whose status is not by virtue of the contract
that of a client or customer of any profession or business undertaking carried
on by the individual; and any reference to a worker’s contract shall be
construed accordingly..

.

2.3

In regulation 3(3)  (disapplication of these regulations)—

2.3.a

in sub-paragraph (b) for “the Control of Lead at Work Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1986” substitute  “the Control of Lead at Work Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2003 ” ; and

2.3.b

in sub-paragraph (e) for “the Control of Substances Hazardous to Health
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1990” substitute  “the Control of Substances
Hazardous to Health Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 ” .

2.4

After regulation 3 insert—

######### Modification of the 1978 Order

2.4.3A

2.4.3A.1

The duty placed on the employer in respect of their employees by Article 10 of
the 1978 Order (duty not to charge employees for things done or provided
pursuant to certain specific requirements) is modified to apply in respect of
the duties under these Regulations to their workers, and “employer”, as
referenced in Article 10, in relation to a worker means the person by whom the
worker is employed under their worker’s contract.

2.4.3A.2

In these Regulations, Article 2(4) of the 1978 Order (meaning of “ work ” and
related expressions) is extended as follows—

2.4.3A.2.a

“ work ” includes work as a worker; and

2.4.3A.2.b

a worker is at work throughout the time when they are working under their
worker’s contract, but not otherwise.

.

2.5

In regulations 4 to 11, in each place it occurs—

2.5.a

for “an employee” substitute  “a worker” ;

2.5.b

for “every employee” substitute  “every worker” ;

2.5.c

for “he is” substitute  “they are” ;

2.5.d

for “he may” substitute  “they may” ;

2.5.e

for “he shall” substitute  “they shall” ;

2.5.f

for “him” substitute  “them” ;

2.5.g

for “his employee” substitute  “their worker” ;

2.5.h

for “his employees” substitute  “their workers” ;

2.5.i

for “his employer” substitute  “their employer” ;

2.5.j

for “his health” substitute  “their health” ;

2.5.k

for “the employee” substitute  “the worker” ; and

2.5.l

for “to employees” substitute  “to workers” .

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 12th
September 2024. Conor Murphy Minister of the Department for the Economy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Personal Protective Equipment at Work
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1993 (“the PPER 1993”) to extend the duties
contained in regulations 4 to 11 of the PPER 1993 from employees to workers,
and to update cross-references to other legislation.

  Regulation 2(2) of these Regulations substitutes a new interpretation
provision, including a new definition of worker.

  Regulation 2(3) makes amendments to update references to legislation
referred to in regulation 4 of the PPER 1993.

  Regulation 2(4) insets a new regulation 3A into the PPER 1993. Regulation 3A
modifies the duty contained in Article 10 of the Health and Safety at Work
(Northern Ireland) Order 1978 (“ the 1978 Order ”) for employers not to charge
employees for things done in pursuance of a relevant statutory provision, to
apply that duty to workers for the purposes of the PPER 1993. Further,
regulation 3A extends the meaning of “work” and related expressions in Article
2(4) of the 1978 Order for the purpose of the PPER 1993 to apply the meaning
to workers.

  Regulation 2(5) makes textual amendments to ensure all duties contained in
the PPER 1993 apply to an employer of a worker and a worker.

  A full Impact Assessment of the effect of these Regulations has been
prepared by the Great Britain Health and Safety Executive. This is available
from the Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland, Legislation Unit,
83 Ladas Drive, Belfast, BT6 9FR.

