Title: The Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) (Amendment) Regulations 2024
Date: 2024-09-27
Description: These Regulations amend the Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) Regulations 1987 (S.I. 1987/2089) (“the Welsh Language Regulations 1987”). The amendments are consequential on amendments made to the Registration of Births and Deaths Regulations 1987 (S.I. 1987/2088) and prescribe the manner of registration and the information required to be registered by the registrar on receipt of a confirmed attending practitioner’s certificate, or a medical examiner’s certificate given to the registrar in accordance with regulations made under section 20 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (c. 25).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2024/884

## The Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) (Amendment) Regulations 2024

    Registration Of Births, Deaths & Marriages, Etc., England And Wales

  Made   3rd September 2024

  Coming into force   9th September 2024

      The Registrar General for England and Wales makes these Regulations with
the approval of the Secretary of State in exercise of the powers conferred by
sections 20, 22(2), 23, 23A(1) and (3), 33A(2) and 39(1)(a) of the Births and
Deaths Registration Act 1953  as extended by section 26(3) of the Welsh
Language Act 1993 .

### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh
Language) (Amendment) Regulations 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 9th September 2024.

### Amendment of the Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) Regulations 1987

2

2.1

The Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) Regulations 1987 are
amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 2 (prescribed forms for registration of births and deaths) —

2.2.a

for “forms 1 to 16”, substitute  “forms 1 to 10 and 14 to 16” ;

2.2.b

for “13 to 18”, substitute  “13, 17, 18” .

2.3

In regulation 6 (registration of deaths occurring in Wales) —

2.3.a

in paragraph (1) for “Forms 11 to 15”, substitute  “Forms 14 and 15” ;

2.3.b

omit paragraph (2);

2.3.c

in paragraph (4)—

2.3.c.i

after “paragraph” , insert  “(4A) or” ;

2.3.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (a)—

2.3.c.ii.aa

for “certificate of cause of death”, substitute  “confirmed attending
practitioner’s certificate, or of a medical examiner’s certificate,” ;

2.3.c.ii.bb

for the words from “42(4)” to “47(5)”, substitute  “42(4), 42A(4)(b) or 43(2)”
;

2.3.d

after paragraph (4), insert—

2.3.d.4A

Where a death is registered on production of a coroner’s certificate on
request by the registrar pursuant to section 23(4) of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act 1953—

2.3.d.4A.a

the registrar shall enter the particulars precisely as stated in the
certificate in accordance with regulation 43A of the principal Regulations,
and

2.3.d.4A.b

if the certificate is completed by the coroner in Welsh as well as English,
the registrar shall also enter the Welsh version of the particulars and of the
words prescribed by regulation 43A(3)(a) of the principal Regulations.

;

2.3.e

in paragraph (5), after the words “certificate after inquest”, insert  “, or
after an investigation by the coroner is suspended” .

2.4

In regulation 7, after “58(2)(b)” insert  “, 58A(2)(b)” .

2.5

After regulation 8, insert—

######### Short certificate of death

2.5.8A

2.5.8A.1

In relation to a short certificate of death issued by a superintendent
registrar or registrar which is compiled from an entry in a death register
relating to a death which occurred in Wales, form 19 shall be the prescribed
form in place of form 22A in Schedule 2 to the principal regulations and
regulations 66A to 66C shall have effect as if they referred to form 19 (and
not to form 22A).

2.5.8A.2

In relation to a short certificate of death issued by the Registrar General
which is compiled from an entry in a death register relating to a death which
occurred in Wales, form 20 shall be the prescribed form in place of form 22B
in Schedule 2 to the principal regulations and regulations 66A to 66C shall
have effect as if they referred to form 20 (and not to form 22B).

2.5.8A.3

Where a short certificate of death is compiled from an entry, which pursuant
to these Regulations contains a Welsh version of the particulars entered, the
short certificate shall likewise include particulars in Welsh as well as in
English.

.

2.6

Schedule 2 (prescribed forms)  is amended as follows—

2.6.a

in the table headed “CONTENTS”—

2.6.a.i

omit the rows beginning with “11”, “12” and “13”;

2.6.a.ii

after the row beginning “18”, insert—

19 Short certificate of death issued by superintendent registrar/registrar The
Act, section 33A 22A 20 Short certificate of death issued by Registrar General
The Act, section 33A 22B

2.6.b

omit forms 11, 12 and 13;

2.6.c

after form 18, insert the forms set out under the headings  “Form 1”  and
“Form 2”  in the Schedule.

2.7

The table in Schedule 3  is amended as follows—

2.7.a

for the row beginning with “42(4)”, substitute—

42(4)(b)(i) Established by .. .. Scrutinised and confirmed by .. .. Medical
Examiner Wedi’i sefydlu gan .. .. Wedi’i graffu a’i gadarnhau gan .. ..
Archwilydd Meddygol 42(4)(b)(ii) Established and confirmed by .. .. Medical
Examiner, following referral by a coroner Wedi’i sefydlu a’i gadarnhau gan ..
.. Archwilydd Meddygol, yn dilyn atgyfeiriad gan Grwner

2.7.b

for the row beginning with “43(2)”, substitute—

43(2)(a) Certified by .. .. for .. .. following investigation without post-
mortem and without inquest Tystiwyd gan .. .. am .. .. yn dilyn ymchwiliad heb
post-mortem a heb gwest 43(2)(b) Certified by .. .. for .. .. after post-
mortem without inquest Tystiwyd gan .. .. am .. .. ar ôl post-mortem heb gwest
43A(3)(a) Certificate received from .. .. pursuant to section 23(4) of the
Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953 Derbyniwyd tystysgrif gan .. .. yn
unol ag adran 23(4) o Ddeddf Cofrestru Genedigaethau a Marwolaethau 1953

2.7.c

for the row beginning with “44(a)”, substitute—

44(a) Inquest discontinued under section 4 of the Coroners and Justice Act
2009 by .. .. and cause of death disclosed as .. .. Daeth y cwest i ben o dan
adran 4 o Ddeddf Crwneriaid a Chyfiawnder 2009 gan .. .. a datgelwyd achos y
farwolaeth fel .. ..

2.7.d

omit the row beginning with “47(6)”;

2.7.e

after the row beginning with “58(2)(b)”, insert—

58A(2)(b) In space .. .. corrected to .. .. on .. .. by me .. .. registrar [or
superintendent registrar] on receipt of notification from the medical examiner
Yn y gofod .. .. wedi’i gywiro i .. .. ar.. .. gennyf i .. .. cofrestrydd [neu
gofrestrydd arolygol] ar ôl derbyn hysbysiad gan yr archwilydd meddygol

### Transitional provision

3

3.1

This regulation applies where, immediately before the date on which these
Regulations come into force—

3.1.a

a death has not been registered under Part 2 of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act 1953;

3.1.b

a registered medical practitioner has signed a certificate, in accordance with
regulation 40 (certificate of cause of death) of the Registration of Births
and Deaths Regulations 1987, in one of the following forms in relation to the
death—

3.1.b.i

form 14 or form 15;

3.1.b.ii

the corresponding form 11 or form 12 prescribed by regulation 2(a) of the
Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh Language) Regulations 1987; and

3.1.c

a coroner is not under a duty to hold an inquest into the death under section
6 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009.

3.2

Where this regulation applies, the following provisions of these Regulations
do not apply to the death—

3.2.a

regulation 2(2);

3.2.b

regulation 2(3)(a), (b) and (c)(ii);

3.2.c

regulation 2(4);

3.2.d

regulation 2(6)(a)(i) and (b);

3.2.e

regulation 2(7)(a), (d) and (e).

Made by the Registrar General for England and Wales Tom Greig Registrar
General for England and Wales 3rd September 2024 I approve, Signed by
authority of the Secretary of State Seema Malhotra Parliamentary Under
Secretary of State Home Office 3rd September 2024

  Prescribed forms

Regulation 2(6)(c)





## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Registration of Births and Deaths (Welsh
Language) Regulations 1987 ( S.I. 1987/2089 ) (“ the Welsh Language
Regulations 1987 ”). The amendments are consequential on amendments made to
the Registration of Births and Deaths Regulations 1987 ( S.I. 1987/2088 ) and
prescribe the manner of registration and the information required to be
registered by the registrar on receipt of a confirmed attending practitioner’s
certificate, or a medical examiner’s certificate given to the registrar in
accordance with regulations made under section 20 of the Coroners and Justice
Act  2009 (c. 25) .

  These Regulations further amend the Welsh Language Regulations 1987 to
prescribe for use in Wales the form, manner of compilation and particulars to
be recorded in a Short Certificate of Death issued under section 33A of the
Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953.

  These Regulations make further amendments consequential to those described
above and to the commencement of several provisions contained in Part 1 of
Schedule 21 to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, which amend the Births and
Deaths Registration Act 1953.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

