Title: The Social Security Benefits Up-rating Order (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-03-28
Description: This Order, which corresponds to an Order (S.I. 2024/242) made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under sections 150, 150A, 151 and 151A of the Social Security Administration Act 1992, alters the rates and amounts of certain social security benefits and other sums.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/73

## The Social Security Benefits Up-rating Order (Northern Ireland) 2024

  Order made by the Department for Communities and laid before the Assembly
under section 166(1) of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992 for approval of the Assembly before the expiration of six months from
the date of its coming into operation

    Social Security       Statutory Maternity Pay; Statutory Sick Pay;
Employment; Housing; Rates

  Made   25th March 2024

  Coming into operation in accordance with Article 1

      This Order is made in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 132,
132A, 132B and 165(1), (4) and (5) of the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992  and now vested in the Department for Communities
.       The Secretary of State has made an Order  under sections 150, 150A,
151, 151A and 189(1), (4) and (5) of the Social Security Administration Act
1992 .           Accordingly, the Department for Communities makes the
following Order:

### INTRODUCTION

#### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Social Security Benefits Up-rating Order
(Northern Ireland) 2024, and subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), shall come
into operation for the purposes of—

1.1.a

this Article and Articles 2, 7, 23 and 24 on 1st April 2024;

1.1.b

Article 3—

1.1.b.i

in so far as it relates to any increase to which Article 7(9)(b) applies, on
1st April 2024, and

1.1.b.ii

for all other purposes on 8th April 2024;

1.1.c

Articles 4, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 18 and 19, on 8th April 2024;

1.1.d

Article 8, on 6th April 2024;

1.1.e

Article 9, on 7th April 2024, except for the purpose of determining the rate
of maternity allowance in accordance with section 35A(1) of the Contributions
and Benefits Act   (appropriate weekly rate of maternity allowance under
section 35), for which purpose it shall come into operation on 8th April 2024;

1.1.f

Article 10, on 7th April 2024;

1.1.g

Articles 16 and 17, on 11th April 2024;

1.1.h

Articles 20, 21 and 22, in so far as they relate to a particular beneficiary,
on the first day of the first benefit week to commence for that beneficiary on
or after 8th April 2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “ benefit
week ” has the same meaning as in the Income Support Regulations;

1.1.i

Articles 25, 26 and 27, in so far as they relate to a particular beneficiary,
on the first day of the first benefit week to commence for that beneficiary on
or after 8th April 2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “ benefit
week ” has the same meaning as in the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996;

1.1.j

Article 28, in so far as it relates to a particular beneficiary, on the first
day of the first benefit week to commence for that beneficiary on or after 8th
April 2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “ benefit week ” has the
same meaning as in the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 2016;

1.1.k

Article 29, in so far as it relates to a particular beneficiary, on the first
day of the first benefit week to commence for that beneficiary on or after 8th
April 2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “ benefit week ” has the
same meaning as in the State Pension Credit Regulations;

1.1.l

Article 30, in so far as it relates to a particular beneficiary, on the first
day of the first week to commence for that beneficiary on or after 8th April
2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “ benefit week ” has the same
meaning as in the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008;

1.1.m

Article 31, in so far as it relates to a particular beneficiary, on the first
day of the first benefit week to commence for that beneficiary on or after 8th
April 2024, and for the purposes of this sub-paragraph “ benefit week ” has
the same meaning as in the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2016;

1.1.n

Articles 32 and 33, in so far as they relate to a particular beneficiary, on
the first day of the first assessment period to commence for that beneficiary
on or after 8th April 2024, and for the purpose of this sub-paragraph “
assessment period ” has the same meaning as in Article 12(2) of the Welfare
Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 ; and

1.1.o

Article 34, on 7th May 2024.

1.2

In so far as Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16, 17, 18, 28 and 31 relate
to a beneficiary in favour of whom an award of universal credit is in force,
those Articles shall come into operation for the purposes of determining the
beneficiary’s unearned income in relation to that award on the same day as
Articles 32 and 33 come into operation for that beneficiary.

1.3

The changes made in the sums specified for rates or amounts of benefits in—

1.3.a

Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13; and

1.3.b

Article 25(b), in so far as that sum is relevant for the purposes of
establishing whether the rate of any benefit is not to be increased in respect
of an adult dependant because the earnings of the dependant exceed a specified
amount,

shall take effect for each case on the date specified in relation to that case
in Article 7.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

      “ the Administration Act ” means the Social Security Administration
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992;           “ the Contributions and Benefits Act ”
means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act
1992 ;           “ the Pensions Act ” means the Pensions Act (Northern
Ireland) 2015 ;           “ the Pension Schemes Act ” means the Pension
Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 ;           “ the Computation of Earnings
Regulations ” means the Social Security Benefit (Computation of Earnings)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 ;           “ the Employment and Support
Allowance Regulations 2008 ” means the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 ;           “ the Employment and Support
Allowance Regulations 2016 ” means the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ;           “ the Employment and Support
Allowance Regulations 2017 ” means the Employment and Support Allowance
(Consequential Amendments and Transitional and Savings Provisions) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2017 ;           “ the Great Britain Up-rating Order ”
means the Social Security Benefits Up-rating Order 2024 ;           “ the
Housing Benefit Regulations ” means the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2006 ;           “ the Housing Benefit (Abolition of the Family
Premium and date of claim) Regulations ” means the Housing Benefit (Abolition
of the Family Premium and date of claim) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 ;           “ the Housing Benefit (SPC) Regulations ” means the
Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the qualifying age for state
pension credit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 ;           “ the Income
Support Regulations ” means the Income Support (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987 ;           “ the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 ” means
the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 ;           “
the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 2016 ” means the Jobseeker’s Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ;           “ the State Pension Credit
Regulations ” means the State Pension Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2003 ;           “ the Universal Credit Regulations ” means the Universal
Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ; and           “ the Universal
Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations ” means the Universal Credit
(Transitional Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 .

2.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954
shall apply to this Order as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

2.3

For the purposes of this Order and notwithstanding section 39(2) of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954, where a period of time is
expressed to begin on, or to be reckoned from, a particular day, that day
shall be included in the period.

### SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS AND PENSIONS

#### Rates or amounts of certain benefits under the Contributions and Benefits Act

3

3.1

From and including the respective dates specified in Article 7, the sums
specified in paragraph (2) shall be increased so that Schedule 4 to the
Contributions and Benefits Act (rates of benefits, etc.), except paragraph 5
of Part III (guardian’s allowance) of that Schedule, has effect as set out in
Schedule 1 to this Order.

3.2

The sums mentioned in paragraph (1) are the sums specified in Parts I, III, IV
and V of Schedule 4 to the Contributions and Benefits Act except, in—

3.2.a

Part III, the sum specified for age addition to a pension of any category, and
otherwise under section 79 of that Act; and

3.2.b

Part V , the sums specified for the increase in disablement pension for
dependent children and death benefit allowance in respect of children and
qualifying young persons.

#### Rates or amounts of certain pensions and allowances under the Contributions and Benefits Act

4

4.1

The sums specified in paragraphs (2) to (5) shall be increased from and
including the respective dates specified in Article 7.

4.2

The sums falling to be calculated under paragraph 13(4) of Schedule 7 to the
Contributions and Benefits Act (calculation of weekly rate of a beneficiary’s
retirement allowance) shall be increased by 6.7 per cent.

4.3

In section 44(4) of the Contributions and Benefits Act  (basic pension of
Category A retirement pension)—

4.3.a

for “£124.90” substitute  “£133.25” ; and

4.3.b

for “£156.20” substitute  “£169.50” .

4.4

It is directed that the sums which are—

4.4.a

the additional pensions in long-term benefits calculated by reference to any
final relevant year earlier than the tax year 2023-2024;

4.4.b

the increases in the rates of retirement pensions under Schedule 5 to the
Contributions and Benefits Act  (pension increase or lump sum where
entitlement to retirement pension is deferred); lump sums to which surviving
spouses or civil partners will become entitled under paragraph 7A of that
Schedule  on becoming entitled to a Category A or Category B retirement
pension (entitlement to lump sum where pensioner’s deceased spouse or civil
partner has deferred entitlement); and

4.4.c

payable to a pensioner as part of their Category A or Category B retirement
pension by virtue of an order made under section 120 of the Social Security
(Northern Ireland) Act 1975 , Article 64 of the Social Security (Northern
Ireland) Order 1986  or section 132 of the Administration Act,

shall in each case be increased by 6.7 per cent.

4.5

The sums which are shared additional pensions under sections 55A and 55AA of
the Contributions and Benefits Act , and the sums which are increases in the
rates of such pensions under paragraph 2 of Schedule 5A to that Act , shall in
each case be increased by 6.7 per cent.

#### Rates or amounts of certain benefits under the Pension Schemes Act

5

5.1

It is directed that the sums specified in paragraph (2) shall be increased
from and including the respective dates specified in Article 7.

5.2

Sums which are payable by virtue of section 11(1) of the Pension Schemes Act
(increase of guaranteed minimum where commencement of guaranteed minimum
pension postponed) to a person who is also entitled to a Category A or
Category B retirement pension (including sums payable by virtue of section
13(2) and (3) of that Act ) shall be increased by—

5.2.a

6.7 per cent where the increase under section 11(1) is attributable to
earnings factors for the tax year 1987-88 and earlier tax years ; and

5.2.b

3.7 per cent where the increase under section 11(1) is attributable to
earnings factors for the tax years 1988-89 to 1996-97 inclusive.

#### Rates or amounts of certain pensions under Part 1 of the Pensions Act

6

6.1

The sums specified in paragraphs (2) to (4) shall be increased from and
including the date specified in Article 7(10).

6.2

In regulation 1A of the State Pension Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015
(full rate of state pension) for “£203.85” substitute  “£221.20” .

6.3

It is directed that the sums which are increases under section 17 of the
Pensions Act in the rates of state pensions under Part 1 of that Act shall be
increased by 6.7 per cent.

6.4

The amounts which, under—

6.4.a

section 9 of the Pensions Act, are survivor’s pensions based on inheritance of
deferred old state pension;

6.4.b

paragraph 4(3) of Schedule 2 to the Pensions Act, are the amounts of state
pensions under Part 1 of the Pensions Act at the transitional rate which
exceed the full rate;

6.4.c

paragraphs 5(3) and 6 of Schedule 4 to the Pensions Act, are the amounts of
survivor’s pensions which either alone or in combination with one or more
other pensions under Part 1 of that Act exceed the full rate; and

6.4.d

paragraphs 5(3) and 6 of Schedule 9 to the Pensions Act, are the amounts of
shared state pensions under Part 1 of the Pensions Act which either alone or
in combination with one or more other pensions under Part 1 of that Act exceed
the full rate,

shall in each case be increased by 6.7 per cent.

6.5

For the purpose of this Article, “ old state pension ” has the same meaning as
in section 22 of the Pensions Act.

#### Dates on which sums specified for rates or amounts of benefits in Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13 are changed by this Order

7

7.1

Paragraph (7), which is subject to the provisions of paragraph (9), and
paragraphs (2) to (6), (8), (10) and (11) specify the date on which the
changes made by this Order in the sums specified for rates or amounts of
benefit in Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13 shall take effect for each case.

7.2

Any increases in the sums mentioned in Articles 3, 4, 11 and 12 for Category
A, Category B, Category C and Category D retirement pension and graduated
retirement benefit together with, where appropriate, any increases for
dependants, shall take effect on 8th April 2024.

7.3

The increases in the sums mentioned in Article 5 shall take effect on 8th
April 2024.

7.4

Any increases in the sums specified for the rate of—

7.4.i

attendance allowance, and

7.4.ii

carer’s allowance (except in a case where the Department has made arrangements
for it to be paid on a Wednesday),

shall take effect on 8th April 2024.

7.5

Any increases in the sums specified for—

7.5.a

the rate of—

7.5.a.i

carer’s allowance in a case where the Department has made arrangements for it
to be paid on a Wednesday,

7.5.a.ii

disablement benefit,

7.5.a.iii

maximum disablement gratuity under paragraph 9(2) of Schedule 7 to the
Contributions and Benefits Act,

7.5.a.iv

industrial death benefit by way of widow’s and widower’s pension, and

7.5.a.v

the maximum of the aggregate of weekly benefit payable for successive
accidents, under section 107(1) of the Contributions and Benefits Act; and

7.5.b

any increases in—

7.5.b.i

the benefit referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(ii) in respect of dependants, and

7.5.b.ii

disablement pension,

shall take effect on 10th April 2024.

7.6

In any case where a person’s weekly rate of Category A or Category B
retirement pension falls to be increased under the provisions of section 47(1)
or 48C(2) of the Contributions and Benefits Act  by reference to the weekly
rate of invalidity allowance or age addition to long-term incapacity benefit
to which the person was previously entitled, any increase in such sum shall
take effect on 8th April 2024.

7.7

The changes in the sums specified for the rate of incapacity benefit and
severe disablement allowance together with, where appropriate, any increases
for dependants, shall take effect on 11th April 2024.

7.8

The increases in the sums falling to be calculated in accordance with
paragraph 13(4) of Schedule 7 to the Contributions and Benefits Act
(retirement allowance) shall take effect on 10th April 2024.

7.9

Any increase in the sum specified in Article 25(b), in so far as that sum is
relevant for the purposes of establishing whether the rate of any benefit is
not to be increased in respect of an adult dependant because the earnings of
the dependant exceed a specified amount, shall take effect—

7.9.a

except in a case where sub-paragraph (b) applies, on the first day of the
first benefit week to commence for the beneficiary on or after 8th April 2024;

7.9.b

in a case where regulation 7(b) of the Computation of Earnings Regulations
(date on which earnings are treated as paid) applies, on the first day of the
first benefit week to commence for the beneficiary on or after 1st April 2024,

and for the purpose of this paragraph, “ benefit week ” has the same meaning
as in regulation 2(1) of the Computation of Earnings Regulations.

7.10

Any increases in the sums mentioned in Article 6 for state pension under Part
1 of the Pensions Act shall take effect on 8th April 2024.

7.11

The increase in the sum mentioned in Article 13 shall take effect on 8th April
2024.

#### Statutory sick pay

8

In section 153(1) of the Contributions and Benefits Act  (rate of payment) for
“£109.40” substitute  “£116.75” .

#### Statutory maternity pay

9

In regulation 6 of the Statutory Maternity Pay (General) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987  (prescribed rate of statutory maternity pay) for “£172.48”
substitute  “£184.03” .

#### Statutory paternity pay, statutory adoption pay, statutory shared parental pay and statutory parental bereavement pay

10

10.1

In the Statutory Paternity Pay and Statutory Adoption Pay (Weekly Rates)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2002 —

10.1.a

in regulation 2(a) (weekly rate of payment of statutory paternity pay) for
“£172.48” substitute  “£184.03” ; and

10.1.b

in regulation 3(a) (weekly rate of payment of statutory adoption pay) for
“£172.48” substitute  “£184.03” .

10.2

In regulation 40(1)(a) of the Statutory Shared Parental Pay (General)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2015  (weekly rate of payment of statutory
shared parental pay) for “£172.48” substitute  “£184.03” .

10.3

In regulation 20(1)(a) of the Statutory Parental Bereavement Pay (General)
(No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023  (weekly rate of payment) for
“£172.48” substitute  “£184.03” .

#### >Graduated retirement benefit

11

11.1

In section 35(1) of the National Insurance Act (Northern Ireland) 1966
(graduated retirement benefit)—

11.1.a

the sum of 16.43 pence shall be increased by 6.7 per cent; and

11.1.b

the reference in that provision to that sum shall have effect as a reference
to 17.53 pence.

11.2

The sums which are the increases of graduated retirement benefit under
Schedule 2 to the Social Security (Graduated Retirement Benefit) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1978  (increases for deferred entitlement to a
Category A or Category B retirement pension) shall be increased by 6.7 per
cent.

11.3

The sums which are lump sums to which surviving spouses or civil partners will
become entitled under Schedule 1 to the Social Security (Graduated Retirement
Benefit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (increases of graduated
retirement benefit and lump sums) shall be increased by 6.7 per cent.

11.4

The sums which are the additions under section 36(1) of the National Insurance
Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 (special provision as to graduated retirement
benefit for widows and widowers) shall be increased by 6.7 per cent.

#### Amount of Category C retirement pension under the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979

12

In regulation 11(3) of the Social Security (Widow’s Benefit and Retirement
Pensions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1979  (Category C retirement pension
for widows of men over pensionable age on 5th July 1948) for “£93.60”
substitute  “£101.55” .

#### Maximum additional pension

13

In regulation 2A of the Social Security (Maximum Additional Pension)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010  (prescribed maximum additional pension
for survivors who become entitled on or after 6th April 2016) for “£204.68”
substitute  “£218.39” .

#### Disability living allowance

14

In regulation 4 of the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1992  (rate of benefit)—

14.a

in paragraph (1)(a) for “£101.75” substitute  “£108.55” ;

14.b

in paragraph (1)(b) for “£68.10” substitute  “£72.65” ;

14.c

in paragraph (1)(c) for “£26.90” substitute  “£28.70” ;

14.d

in paragraph (2)(a) for “£71.00” substitute  “£75.75” ; and

14.e

in paragraph (2)(b) for “£26.90” substitute  “£28.70” .

#### Personal independence payment

15

In regulation 24 of the Personal Independence Payment Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016  (rate of personal independence payment)—

15.a

in paragraph (1)(a) for “£68.10” substitute  “£72.65” ;

15.b

in paragraph (1)(b) for “£101.75” substitute  “£108.55” ;

15.c

in paragraph (2)(a) for “£26.90” substitute  “£28.70” ; and

15.d

in paragraph (2)(b) for “£71.00” substitute  “£75.75” .

#### Age addition to long-term incapacity benefit

16

16.1

Subject to paragraph (2), in regulation 9(2) of the Social Security
(Incapacity Benefit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1994  (increase in rate of
incapacity benefit where beneficiary is under prescribed age on the qualifying
date)—

16.1.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£26.60” substitute  “£28.40” ; and

16.1.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£13.30” substitute  “£14.20” .

16.2

In so far as a claimant entitled to long-term incapacity benefit corresponds
to a claimant under Article 16(2) of the Great Britain Up-rating Order, the
sums specified in regulation 9(2)(a) and (b) of the Social Security
(Incapacity Benefit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1994 shall be increased to
“£14.70” and “£8.15” respectively.

#### Transitional invalidity allowance in long-term incapacity benefit cases

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph (2), in regulation 18(2) of the Social Security
(Incapacity Benefit) (Transitional) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995  (rate
of long-term incapacity benefit in transitional cases)—

17.1.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£26.60” substitute  “£28.40” ;

17.1.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£17.10” substitute  “£18.20” ; and

17.1.c

in sub-paragraph (c) for “£8.55” substitute  “£9.10” .

17.2

In so far as a claimant entitled to long-term incapacity benefit corresponds
to a claimant under Article 17(2) of the Great Britain Up-rating Order, the
sums specified in regulation 18(2)(a), (b) and (c) of the Social Security
(Incapacity Benefit) (Transitional) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 shall
be increased to “£14.70”, “£8.15” and “£8.15” respectively.

#### Bereavement benefits

18

In the Rate of Bereavement Benefits Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010 —

18.a

in regulation 2 (rate of widowed mother’s allowance and widow’s pension) for
“£139.10” substitute  “£148.40” ; and

18.b

in regulation 3 (rate ofwidowed parent’s allowance ) for “£139.10” substitute
“£148.40” .

#### Bereavement support payment

19

In regulation 3 of the Bereavement Support Payment (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2019  (rate of bereavement support payment)—

19.a

in paragraph (1) the sum of £350 remains the same;

19.b

in paragraph (2) the sum of £3,500 remains the same;

19.c

in paragraph (4) the sum of £100 remains the same; and

19.d

in paragraph (5) the sum of £2,500 remains the same.

### INCOME SUPPORT AND HOUSING BENEFIT

#### Applicable amounts for income support

20

20.1

The sums relevant to the calculation of an applicable amount as specified in
the Income Support Regulations  shall be the sums set out in this Article and
Schedules 2 and 3 to this Order; and unless stated otherwise, a reference in
this Article to a numbered regulation or Schedule is a reference to the
regulation of, or Schedule to, the Income Support Regulations bearing that
number.

20.2

In—

20.2.a

regulations 17(1)(b), 18(1)(c) and 21(1) ; and

20.2.b

paragraphs 13A(2)(a) and 14(2)(a) of Part III of Schedule 2 ,

the sum specified is in each case £3,000 (which remains the same).

20.3

In Part I of Schedule 2 (applicable amounts: personal allowances)—

20.3.a

the sums specified in paragraph 1 shall be as set out in Schedule 2 to this
Order; and

20.3.b

in paragraph 2(1) , in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of column (2) of the table
for “£77.78” substitute  “£83.24” .

20.4

In paragraph 3(1) of Part II of Schedule 2  (applicable amounts: family
premium) for the sum of “£18.53”, in both places, substitute  “£19.15” .

20.5

The sums specified in Part IV of Schedule 2 (applicable amounts: weekly
amounts of premiums) shall be as set out in Schedule 3 to this Order.

20.6

In paragraph 18 of Schedule 3  (housing costs: non-dependant deductions)—

20.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1) for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

20.6.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

20.6.b.i

in head (a) for “£162.00” substitute  “£176.00” ,

20.6.b.ii

in head (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute “£176.00”,
“£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

20.6.b.iii

in head (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute “£256.00”,
“£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

20.6.b.iv

in head (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute “£334.00”,
“£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

20.6.b.v

in head (e) for“£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute “£445.00”,
“£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

#### Income support transitional protection

21

The sums which are special transitional additions to income support payable in
accordance with regulation 15 of the Income Support (Transitional) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1987  shall be increased by 6.7 per cent.

#### Relevant sum for income support

22

In section 125(7) of the Contributions and Benefits Act (trade disputes) for
“£47.00” substitute  “£50.00” .

#### Housing benefit

23

23.1

The sums relevant to the calculation of an applicable amount as specified in
the Housing Benefit Regulations shall be the sums set out in this Article and
Schedules 4 and 5 to this Order; and unless stated otherwise, a reference in
this Article to a numbered regulation or Schedule is a reference to the
regulation of, or Schedule to, the Housing Benefit Regulations bearing that
number.

23.2

In regulation 24(3) (calculation of income on a weekly basis) the sums of
£175.00 and £300 remain the same.

23.3

In regulation 72  (non-dependant deductions)—

23.3.a

in paragraph (1) for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

23.3.b

in paragraph (2)—

23.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£162.00” substitute  “£176.00” ,

23.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute
“£176.00”, “£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

23.3.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute
“£256.00”, “£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

23.3.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute
“£334.00”, “£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

23.3.b.v

in sub-paragraph (e) for “£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute
“£445.00”, “£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

23.4

In Schedule 1  (ineligible service charges)—

23.4.a

in paragraph 2 for “£33.15”, “£33.15”, “£16.80”, “£22.10”, “£22.10”, “£11.05”
and “£4.05” substitute “£35.35, “£35.35”, “£17.95”, “£23.60”, “£23.60”,
“£11.80” and “£4.30” respectively; and

23.4.b

in paragraph 6(2) the sums “£35.25”, “£4.10”, “£2.85” and “£4.10” remain the
same.

23.5

In Part I of Schedule 4 (applicable amounts: personal allowances)—

23.5.a

the sums specified in paragraph 1 shall be as set out in Schedule 4 to this
Order; and

23.5.b

in paragraph 2(1), in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of column (2) of the table
for “£77.78” substitute  “£83.24” .

23.6

In paragraph 3(1) of Part II of Schedule 4  (applicable amounts: family
premium) as it has effect in a case falling within regulation 5 (transitional
provision) of the Housing Benefit (Abolition of the Family Premium and date of
claim) Regulations—

23.6.a

in sub-paragraph (a) the sum of £22.20 remains the same; and

23.6.b

in sub-paragraph (b), for “£18.53” substitute  “£19.15” .

23.7

The sums specified in Part IV of Schedule 4 (applicable amounts: amounts of
premiums) shall be as set out in Schedule 5 to this Order.

23.8

In Part VI of Schedule 4  (amount of component)—

23.8.a

in paragraph 25, as it has effect in cases falling within paragraphs 2 to 7 of
Schedule 2 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2017, for
“£33.70” substitute  “£35.95” ; and

23.8.b

in paragraph 26, for “£44.70” substitute  “£47.70” .

23.9

In paragraph 17(1) and (3)(c) of Schedule 5  (sums to be disregarded in the
calculation of earnings) the sum of £17.10 remains the same.

23.10

In paragraph 58 of Schedule 6  (sums to be disregarded in the calculation of
income other than earnings)the sum of £17.10 remains the same.

#### Housing benefit for certain persons over the qualifying age for state pension credit

24

24.1

The sums relevant to the calculation of an applicable amount as specified in
the Housing Benefit (SPC) Regulations shall be the sums set out in this
Article and Schedules 6 and 7 to this Order; and unless stated otherwise, a
reference in this Article to a numbered regulation or Schedule is a reference
to the regulation of, or Schedule to, the Housing Benefit (SPC) Regulations
bearing that number.

24.2

In regulation 28(3) (calculation of income on a weekly basis) the sums of
£175.00 and £300 remain the same.

24.3

In regulation 53  (non-dependant deductions)—

24.3.a

in paragraph (1) for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

24.3.b

in paragraph (2)—

24.3.b.i

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£162.00” substitute  “£176.00” ,

24.3.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute
“£176.00”, “£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

24.3.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute
“£256.00”, “£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

24.3.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute
“£334.00”, “£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

24.3.b.v

in sub-paragraph (e) for “£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute
“£445.00”, “£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

24.4

In Schedule 1  (ineligible service charges)—

24.4.a

in paragraph 2 for “£33.15”, “£33.15”, “£16.80”, “£22.10”, “£22.10”, “£11.05”
and “£4.05” substitute “£35.35”, “£35.35”, “£17.95”, “£23.60”, “£23.60”,
“£11.80” and “£4.30” respectively; and

24.4.b

in paragraph 6(2) the sums “£35.25”, “£4.10”, “£2.85” and “£4.10” remain the
same.

24.5

In Part I of Schedule 4  (applicable amounts: personal allowances)—

24.5.a

the sums specified in paragraph 1 shall be as set out in Schedule 6 to this
Order; and

24.5.b

in paragraph 2(1), in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of column (2) of the table
for “£77.78” substitute  “£83.24” .

24.6

In paragraph 3(1) of Part II of Schedule 4  (applicable amounts: family
premium) as it has effect in a case falling within regulation 5 (transitional
provision) of the Housing Benefit (Abolition of Family Premium and date of
claim) Regulations for “£18.53” substitute  “£19.15” .

24.7

The sums specified in Part IV of Schedule 4 (applicable amounts: amounts of
premiums specified in Part III) shall be as set out in Schedule 7 to this
Order.

24.8

In paragraph 9(1) and (3)(c) of Schedule 5  (sums disregarded from claimant’s
earnings) the sum of £17.10 remains the same.

24.9

In paragraph 22 of Schedule 6  (amounts to be disregarded in the calculation
of income other than earnings) the sum of £17.10 remains the same.

### JOBSEEKER’S ALLOWANCE

#### Age-related amounts of contribution-based jobseeker’s allowance

25

In regulation 79(1) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996  (weekly
amounts of contribution-based jobseeker’s allowance)—

25.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£67.20” substitute  “£71.70” ; and

25.b

in sub-paragraph (c) for “£84.80” substitute  “£90.50” .

#### Applicable amounts for jobseeker’s allowance

26

26.1

The sums relevant to the calculation of an applicable amount as specified in
the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations  shall be the sums set out in this
Article and Schedules 8 to 10 to this Order, and unless stated otherwise, a
reference in this Article to a numbered regulation or Schedule is a reference
to the regulation of, or Schedule to, the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations
1996 bearing that number.

26.2

In—

26.2.a

regulations 83(b), 84(1)(c) and 85(1) ; and

26.2.b

paragraphs 15A(2)(a) and 16(2)(a) of Part III of Schedule 1  (premiums),

the sum specified is in each case £3,000 (which remains the same).

26.3

In Part I of Schedule 1 (applicable amounts: personal allowances)—

26.3.a

the sums specified in paragraph 1 shall be as set out in Schedule 8 to this
Order; and

26.3.b

in paragraph 2(1) , in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) of column (2) of the table
for “£77.78” substitute  “£83.24” .

26.4

In paragraph 4(1) of Part II of Schedule 1  (applicable amounts: family
premium) for the sum of “£18.53”, in both places, substitute  “£19.15” .

26.5

The sums specified in Part IV of Schedule 1 (applicable amounts: weekly
amounts of premiums) shall be as set out in Schedule 9 to this Order.

26.6

The sums specified in Part IVB of Schedule 1 (applicable amounts: weekly
amounts of premiums for joint-claim couples) shall be as set out in Schedule
10 to this Order.

26.7

In paragraph 17 of Schedule 2  (housing costs: non-dependant deductions)—

26.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1) for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

26.7.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

26.7.b.i

in head (a) the sum “£162.00” substitute “£176.00”,

26.7.b.ii

in head (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute “£176.00”,
“£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

26.7.b.iii

in head (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute “£256.00”,
“£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

26.7.b.iv

in head (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute “£334.00”,
“£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

26.7.b.v

in head (e) for “£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute “£445.00”,
“£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

#### Prescribed sum for the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996

27

In regulation 170 of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996  (trade
disputes: prescribed sum) for “£47.00” substitute  “£50.00” .

#### Amounts for the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 2016

28

In regulation 49 of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 2016 (weekly amounts
of jobseeker’s allowance)—

28.a

in paragraph (1)(a) for “£67.20” substitute  “£71.70” ; and

28.b

in paragraph (1)(b) for “£84.80” substitute  “£90.50” .

### STATE PENSION CREDIT

#### State pension credit

29

29.1

The sums specified in the State Pension Credit Regulations shall be the sums
set out in this Article, and unless stated otherwise, a reference in this
Article to a numbered regulation or Schedule is a reference to the regulation
of, or Schedule to, the State Pension Credit Regulations bearing that number.

29.2

In regulation 6  (amount of the guarantee credit)—

29.2.a

in paragraph (1) for “£306.85” and “£201.05” substitute  “£332.95”  and
“£218.15”  respectively;

29.2.b

in paragraph (5) for “£76.40” and “£152.80” substitute  “£81.50”  and
“£163.00”  respectively; and

29.2.c

in paragraph (8) for “£42.75” substitute  “£45.60” .

29.3

In regulation 7(2)  (savings credit) for “£174.49” and “£277.12” substitute
“£189.80”  and  “£301.22”  respectively.

29.4

In paragraph 14 of Schedule 2 (housing costs: persons residing with the
claimant)—

29.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)  for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

29.4.b

in sub-paragraph (2) —

29.4.b.i

in head (a) for “£162.00” substitute  “£176.00” ,

29.4.b.ii

in head (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute “£176.00”,
“£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

29.4.b.iii

in head (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute “£256.00”,
“£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

29.4.b.iv

in head (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute “£334.00”,
“£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

29.4.b.v

in head (e) for “£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute “£445.00”,
“£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

29.5

In paragraph 9 of Schedule 2A  (additional amount applicable for claimants
responsible for a child or qualifying young person: amount of additional
payment)—

29.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a) for “£61.88” substitute  “£66.29” ; and

29.5.b

in sub-paragraph (1)(b)—

29.5.b.i

for “£33.67” substitute  “£35.93” , and

29.5.b.ii

for “£104.86” substitute  “£112.21” .

29.6

In paragraph 10 of Schedule 2A (additional amount applicable for claimants
responsible for a child or qualifying young person: amount for the eldest
child or qualifying young person born before 6th April 2017) for “£72.31”
substitute  “£76.79” .

29.7

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 3  (special groups: polygamous marriages)—

29.7.a

in sub-paragraph (5), in the substituted regulation 6(1), for  “£306.85”  and
“£105.80” substitute “£332.95” and “£114.80” respectively; and

29.7.b

in sub-paragraph (7), in the substituted regulation 7(2), for  “£277.12”
substitute “£301.22”.

### EMPLOYMENT AND SUPPORT ALLOWANCE

#### Applicable amounts for the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008

30

30.1

The sums relevant to the calculation of an applicable amount as specified in
the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008 shall be the sums set
out in this Article and Schedules 11 and 12 to this Order; and unless stated
otherwise, a reference in this Article to a numbered Schedule is a reference
to the Schedule to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008
bearing that number.

30.2

The sums specified in Part 1 of Schedule 4 (prescribed amounts) shall be as
set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 to this Order except in cases referred
to in paragraph (3).

30.3

In cases falling within paragraphs 2 to 7 of Schedule 2 to the Employment and
Support Allowance Regulations 2017 , the sums specified in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 4 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008 shall be
as set out in paragraph 2 of Schedule 11 to this Order.

30.4

The sums specified in Part 3 of Schedule 4 (weekly amount of premiums
specified in Part 2) shall be as set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 12 to this
Order.

30.5

In cases falling within paragraphs 2 to 7 of Schedule 2 to the Employment and
Support Allowance Regulations 2017, the sums specified in paragraph 11(1) of
Schedule 4 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008 shall be
as set out in paragraph 2 of Schedule 12 to this Order.

30.6

In Part 4 of Schedule 4  (the component)—

30.6.a

in cases falling within paragraphs 2 to 7 of Schedule 2 to the Employment and
Support Allowance Regulations 2017, in paragraph 12 for “£33.70” substitute
“£35.95” ; and

30.6.b

in paragraph 13 for “£44.70” substitute  “£47.70” .

30.7

In paragraph 19 of Schedule 6  (housing costs: non-dependant deductions)—

30.7.a

in sub-paragraph (1) for “£116.75” and “£18.10” substitute  “£124.55”  and
“£19.30”  respectively; and

30.7.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

30.7.b.i

in head (a) for “£162.00” substitute  “£176.00” ,

30.7.b.ii

in head (b) for “£162.00”, “£236.00” and “£41.60” substitute “£176.00”,
“£256.00” and “£44.40” respectively,

30.7.b.iii

in head (c) for “£236.00”, “£308.00” and “£57.10” substitute “£256.00”,
“£334.00” and “£60.95” respectively,

30.7.b.iv

in head (d) for “£308.00”, “£410.00” and “£93.40” substitute “£334.00”,
“£445.00” and “£99.65” respectively, and

30.7.b.v

in head (e) for “£410.00”, “£511.00” and “£106.35” substitute “£445.00”,
“£554.00” and “£113.50” respectively.

#### Prescribed amount for the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2016

31

31.1

In regulation 62 of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2016
(prescribed amounts)—

31.1.a

in paragraph (1)(a) and (b)(i) for “£84.80” substitute  “£90.50” ;

31.1.b

in paragraph (1)(b)(ii) for “£67.20” substitute  “£71.70” ; and

31.1.c

in paragraph (2) for “£44.70” substitute  “£47.70” .

31.2

In regulation 62(2) of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2016
(prescribed amounts), as it has effect in cases falling within paragraphs 2 to
7 of Schedule 2 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2017—

31.2.a

in sub-paragraph (a) for “£33.70” substitute  “£35.95” ; and

31.2.b

in sub-paragraph (b) for “£44.70” substitute  “£47.70” .

31.3

In regulation 62 of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2016
(prescribed amounts) as modified by paragraph 4(f) of Schedule 2 to the
Employment and Support Allowance (Transitional Provisions and Housing Benefit)
(Existing Awards) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2010  as that paragraph is
modified by paragraph 21(4)(e) of Schedule 3 to the Welfare Reform (Northern
Ireland) Order 2015 (Commencement No. 8 and Transitional and Transitory
Provisions) Order 2017 —

31.3.a

in paragraph (1)(a)(i) and (ii)(aa) for “£84.80” substitute  “£90.50” ; and

31.3.b

in paragraph (1)(a)(ii)(bb) for “£67.20” substitute  “£71.70” .

### UNIVERSAL CREDIT

#### Universal credit

32

32.1

In the table in regulation 23 of the Universal Credit Regulations  (deduction
of income and work allowance)—

32.1.a

for “£631”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “£673” ; and

32.1.b

for “£379”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “£404” .

32.2

The amounts specified in the table in regulation 38 of the Universal Credit
Regulations (amounts of elements) shall be as set out in Schedule 13 to this
Order.

32.3

In paragraph 13(1) of Schedule 4 to the Universal Credit Regulations  (amount
of housing cost contributions) for “£85.73” substitute  “£91.47” .

#### Amendment of the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations

33

In the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations—

33.a

In paragraph 5 of Schedule 2  (claimants previously entitled to a severe
disability premium)—

33.a.i

for “£132.12”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “£140.97” ;

33.a.ii

for “£313.79”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “£334.81” ; and

33.a.iii

for “£445.91” substitute  “£475.79” .

33.b

In paragraph 5 of Schedule 3  (additional amounts for claimants previously
entitled to an enhanced disability premium, a disability premium, a disabled
child premium or a disabled child element in addition to a severe disability
premium)—

33.b.i

for “£84” substitute  “£89.63” ;

33.b.ii

for “£172” substitute  “£183.52” ;

33.b.iii

for “£177”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “£188.86” ;

33.b.iv

for “£120” substitute  “£128.04” ; and

33.b.v

for “£246” substitute  “£262.48” .

### REVOCATION

#### Revocation

34

The Social Security (2023 Benefits Up-rating) Order (Northern Ireland) 202 4
is revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 25th
March 2024       (L.S.)   Patrick Rooney   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

  Provisions of Schedule 4 to the Contributions and Benefits Act as amended by
this Order

Article 3(1)

##### CONTRIBUTORY PERIODICAL BENEFITS

      Description of benefit Weekly rate   2. Short-term incapacity benefit.
(a) lower rate £104.85 (b) higher rate £124.00 2A. Long-term incapacity
benefit. £138.90 5. Category B retirement pension where section 48A(4) or
48AA(4) applies. £101.55

##### NON-CONTRIBUTORY PERIODICAL BENEFITS

      Description of benefit Weekly rate   1. Attendance allowance. (a) higher
rate £108.55 (b) lower rate £72.65 (the appropriate rate being determined in
accordance with section 65(3)). 2. Severe disablement allowance. £98.40 3. Age
related addition. (a) higher rate £14.70 (b) middle rate £8.15 (c) lower rate
£8.15 (the appropriate rate being determined in accordance with section
69(1)). 4. Carer’s allowance. £81.90 7. Category D retirement pension. £101.55
8. Age addition (to a pension of any category, and otherwise under section
79). £0.25

##### INCREASES FOR DEPENDANTS

      Benefit to which increase applies Increase for adult dependant (1) (3) £
1A. Short-term incapacity benefit— (a) where the beneficiary is under
pensionable age; 62.85 (b) where the beneficiary is over pensionable age.
77.70 2. Long-term incapacity benefit. 80.70 8. Severe disablement allowance.
48.40

##### RATE OF INDUSTRIAL INJURIES BENEFIT

      Description of benefit, etc. Rate   1. Disablement pension (weekly
rates). For the several degrees of disablement set out in column (1) of the
following Table, the respective amounts in column (2) of that Table. TABLE
Degree of disablement Amount    (1) (2) Per cent. £ 100 221.50 90 199.35 80
177.20 70 155.05 60 132.90 50 110.75 40 88.60 30 66.45 20 44.30 2.   Maximum
increase of weekly rate of disablement pension where       constant attendance
needed.     (a) except in cases of exceptionally severe Disablement £88.70 (b)
in any case of exceptionally severe Disablement £177.40 3. Increase of weekly
rate of disablement pension (exceptionally severe disablement). £88.70 4.
Maximum of aggregate of weekly benefit payable for successive accidents.
£221.50 5. Unemployability supplement under paragraph 2 of Schedule 7. £137.00
6.   Increase under paragraph 3 of Schedule 7 of weekly rate of
unemployability supplement.     (a)   if on the qualifying date the
beneficiary was under the age of 35 or if that date fell       before 5th July
1948     £28.40 (b)   if head (a) above does not apply and on the qualifying
date the beneficiary was under the age of 40 and he had not attained
pensionable age before       6th April 1979     £28.40  (c)    if heads (a)
and (b) above do not apply and on the qualifying date the beneficiary was
under the age of 45     £18.20  (d)    if heads (a), (b) and (c) above do not
apply and on the qualifying date the beneficiary was under the age of 50 and
had not attained pensionable age before       6th April 1979     £18.20 (e) in
any other case £9.10 7. Increase under paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 of weekly
rate of disablement pension. £11.35 8. Increase under paragraph 6 of Schedule
7 of weekly rate of disablement pension. £81.90 9. Maximum disablement
gratuity under paragraph 9 of Schedule 7. £14,700.00 10. Widow’s pension
(weekly rates). (b) higher permanent rate £169.50 (c) Lower permanent rate 30
per cent of the first sum specified in section 44(4) (Category A basic
retirement pension) (the appropriate rate being determined in accordance with
paragraph 16 of Schedule 7) 11. Widower’s pension (weekly rate). £169.50 12.
Weekly rate of allowance in respect of children and qualifying young persons
under paragraph 18 of Schedule 7. In respect of each child or qualifying young
person £11.35

  Part I of Schedule 2 to the Income Support Regulations as amended by this
Order

Article 20(3)

##### PERSONAL ALLOWANCES

1

The weekly amounts specified in column (2) below in respect of each person or
couple specified in column (1) shall be the weekly amounts specified for the
purposes of regulations 17(1)(a) and 18(1)(a) and (b) (applicable amounts and
polygamous marriages).

      Column (1) Column (2) Person or Couple Amount   (1)  Single claimant
aged— (1) (a) except where head (b) or (c) applies, less than 18; (a) £71.70;
(b) less than 18 who falls within any of the circumstances specified in
paragraph 1A; (b) £71.70; (c) less than 18 who satisfies the condition in
paragraph 11(1)(a); (c) £71.70; (d) not less than 18 but less than 25; (d)
£71.70; (e) not less than 25. (e) £90.50. (2) Lone parent aged— (2) (a) except
where head (b) or (c) applies, less than 18; (a) £71.70; (b) less than 18 who
falls within any of the circumstances specified in paragraph 1A; (b) £71.70;
(c) less than 18 who satisfies the condition in paragraph 11(1)(a); (c)
£71.70; (d) not less than 18. (d) £90.50. (3)  Couple— (3) (a) where both
members are aged less than 18 and— (a) £108.30; (i) at least one of them is
treated as responsible for a child, (ii) had they not been members of a
couple, each would have qualified for income support under regulation 4ZA or
income-related employment and support allowance, (iii) the claimant’s partner
satisfies the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order
(prescribed circumstances for persons aged 16 but less than 18), or (iv) there
is in force in respect of the claimant’s partner a direction under Article 18
of the Jobseekers Order (persons under 18: severe hardship); (b) where both
members are aged less than 18 and head (a) does not apply but one member of
the couple falls within any of the circumstances specified in paragraph 1A;
(b) £71.70; (c) where both members are aged less than 18 and heads (a) and (b)
do not apply; (c) £71.70; (d) where both members are aged not less than 18;
(d) £142.25; (e) where one member is aged not less than 18 and the other
member is a person under 18 who— (e) £142.25; (i) qualifies for income support
under regulation 4ZA or income-related employment and support allowance, or
who would so qualify if he were not a member of a couple, (ii) satisfies the
requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, or (iii) is the
subject of a direction under Article 18 of the Jobseekers Order; (f) where the
claimant is aged not less than 18 but less than 25 and his partner is a person
under 18 who— (f) £71.70; (i) would not qualify for income support under
regulation 4ZA or income-related employment and support allowance if he were
not a member of a couple, (ii) does not satisfy the requirements of Article
5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and (iii) is not the subject of a
direction under Article 18 of the Jobseekers Order; (g) where the claimant is
aged not less than 25 and his partner is a person under 18 who— (g) £90.50.
(i) would not qualify for income support under regulation 4ZA or income-
related employment and support allowance if he were not a member of a couple,
(ii) does not satisfy the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the
Jobseekers Order, and (iii) is not the subject of a direction under Article 18
of the Jobseekers Order.

  Part IV of Schedule 2 to the Income Support Regulations as amended by this
Order

Article 20(5)

##### WEEKLY AMOUNTS OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART III

      Premium Amount   15. —(2)  Pensioner premium for persons to whom
paragraph 9 applies. (2) £190.70. (2A) Pensioner premium for persons to whom
paragraph 9A applies. (2A) £190.70. (3) Higher pensioner premium for persons
to whom paragraph 10 applies. (3) £190.70. (4)  Disability premium— (4) (a)
where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 11(1)(a); (a) £42.50;
(b) where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 11(1)(b). (b)
£60.60. (5)  Severe disability premium— (5) (a) where the claimant satisfies
the condition in paragraph 13(2)(a); (a) £81.50; (b) where the claimant
satisfies the condition in paragraph 13(2)(b)— (b) (i) if there is someone in
receipt of a carer’s allowance or if he or any partner satisfies that
condition only by virtue of paragraph 13(3A) (i) £81.50; (ii) if no-one is in
receipt of such an allowance. (ii) £163.00. (6)  Disabled child premium. (6)
£80.01 in respect of each child or young person in respect of whom the
condition specified in paragraph 14 is satisfied. (7)  Carer premium. (7)
£45.60 in respect of each person who satisfies the condition specified in
paragraph 14ZA. (8) Enhanced disability premium where the conditions in
paragraph 13A are satisfied. (8) (a) £32.20 in respect of each child or young
person in respect of whom the conditions specified in paragraph 13A are
satisfied; (b) £20.85 in respect of each person who is neither— (i) a child or
young person, nor (ii) a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage, in
respect of whom the conditions specified in paragraph 13A are satisfied; (c)
£29.75 where the claimant is a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and
the conditions specified in paragraph 13A are satisfied in respect of a member
of that couple or polygamous marriage.

  Part I of Schedule 4 to the Housing Benefit Regulations as amended by this
Order

 Article 23(5)

##### PERSONAL ALLOWANCES

1

The amounts specified in column (2) in respect of each person or couple
specified in column (1) shall be the amounts specified for the purposes of
regulations 20(a) and 21(a) and (b)—

      Column (1) Column (2) Person or Couple Amount   (1)  Single claimant
who— (1) (a) is entitled to main phase employment and support allowance; (a)
£90.50; (b) is aged not less than 25; (b) £90.50; (c) is aged less than 25.
(c) £71.70. (2) Lone parent who— (2) (a) is entitled to main phase employment
and support allowance; (a) £90.50; (b) is aged not less than 18; (b) £90.50;
(c) is aged less than 18. (c) £71.70. (3) Couple where— (3) (a) the claimant
is entitled to main phase employment and support allowance; (a) £142.25; (b)
at least one member is aged not less than 18; (b) £142.25; (c) both members
are aged less than 18. (c)  £108.30.

  Part IV of Schedule 4 to the Housing Benefit Regulations as amended by this
Order

Article 23(7)

##### AMOUNTS OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART III

      Premium Amount   20. —(5) Disability premium— (5) (a) where the claimant
satisfies the condition in paragraph 12(a); (a) £42.50; (b) where the claimant
satisfies the condition in paragraph 12(b). (b) £60.60. (6)  Severe disability
premium— (6) (a) where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph
14(2)(a); (a) £81.50; (b) where the claimant satisfies the condition in
paragraph 14(2)(b)— (i) in a case where there is someone in receipt of carer’s
allowance or who has an award of universal credit which includes the carer
element under regulation 30 of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 or if he or any partner satisfies that condition only by virtue
of paragraph 14(5); (b) (i) £81.50; (ii) in a case where there is no-one in
receipt of such an allowance or such an award of universal credit. (ii)
£163.00. (7) Disabled child premium. (7) £80.01 in respect of each child or
young person in respect of whom the condition specified in paragraph 16 is
satisfied. (8) Carer premium. (8) £45.60 in respect of each person who
satisfies the condition specified in paragraph 17. (9)  Enhanced disability
premium. (9) (a) £32.20 in respect of each child or young person in respect of
whom the conditions specified in paragraph 15 are satisfied; (b) £20.85 in
respect of each person who is neither— (i) a child or young person, nor (ii) a
member of a couple or a polygamous marriage, in respect of whom the conditions
specified in paragraph 15 are satisfied; (c) £29.75 where the claimant is a
member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and the conditions specified in
paragraph 15 are satisfied in respect of a member of that couple or polygamous
marriage.

  Paragraph 1 of Part I of Schedule 4 to the Housing Benefit (SPC) Regulations
as amended by this Order

Article 24(5)(a)

##### PERSONAL ALLOWANCES

1

The amount specified in column (2)  in respect of each person or couple
specified in column (1) shall be the amount specified for the purposes of
regulation 20—

      Column (1) Column (2) Person, couple or polygamous marriage Amount   (1)
Single claimant or lone parent— (1) (b) who has attained pensionable age
before 1st April 2021. (b) £235.20. (c) who has attained pensionable age on or
after 1st April 2021. (c) £218.15 (2) Couple— (2) (b) one member or both
members who have attained pensionable age before 1st April 2021. (b) £352.00.
(c) both members who have attained pensionable age on or after 1st April 2021.
(c) £332.95 (4) If the claimant is a member of a polygamous marriage and one
or more members of the marriage have attained pensionable age before 1st April
2021— (4) (a) for the claimant and the other party to the marriage; (a)
£352.00; (b) for each additional spouse who is a member of the same household
as the claimant. (b) £116.80. (5) If the claimant is a member of a polygamous
marriage and all members of the marriage have attained pensionable age on or
after 1st April 2021— (5) (a) for the claimant and the other party to the
marriage; (a) £332.95 (b) for each additional spouse who is a member of the
same household as the claimant. (b) £114.80

  Part IV of Schedule 4 to the Housing Benefit (SPC) Regulations as amended by
this Order

Article 24(7)

##### AMOUNTS OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART III

      Premium Amount   12. —(1)  Severe disability premium— (1) (a) where the
claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 6(2)(a); (a) £81.50; (b) where
the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 6(2)(b)— (b) (i) in a case
where there is someone in receipt of a carer’s allowance or who has an award
of universal credit which includes the carer element under regulation 30 of
the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 if he or any partner
satisfies that condition only by virtue of paragraph 6(7); (i) £81.50; (ii) in
a case where there is no-one in receipt of such an allowance or such an award
of universal credit. (ii) £163.00. (2) Enhanced disability premium. (2) £32.20
in respect of each child or young person in respect of whom the conditions
specified in paragraph 7 are satisfied. (3) Disabled child premium. (3) £80.01
in respect of each child or young person in respect of whom the condition
specified in paragraph 8 is satisfied. (4) Carer premium. (4) £45.60 in
respect of each person who satisfies the condition specified in paragraph 9.

  Part I of Schedule 1 to the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 as
amended by this Order

Article 26(3)(a)

##### PERSONAL ALLOWANCES

1

The weekly amounts specified in column (2)  below in respect of each person or
couple specified in column (1) shall be the weekly amounts specified for the
purposes of regulations 83, 84(1), 86A and 86B (applicable amounts and
polygamous marriages).

      Column (1) Column (2) Person or Couple Amount   (1) Single claimant
aged— (1) (a) except where head (b) or (c) applies, less than 18; (a) £71.70;
(b) less than 18 who falls within regulation 57(2) and who— (b) £71.70; (i) is
a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61 applies, or (ii) is the subject of a
direction under Article 18 of the Order; (c) less than 18 who satisfies the
condition in paragraph 13(1)(a) of Part III; (c) £71.70; (d) not less than 18
but less than 25; (d) £71.70; (e) not less than 25. (e) £90.50. (2) Lone
parent aged— (2) (a) except where head (b) or (c) applies, less than 18; (a)
£71.70; (b) less than 18 who falls within regulation 57(2) and who— (b)
£71.70; (i) is a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61 applies, or (ii) is
the subject of a direction under Article 18 of the Order; (c) less than 18 who
satisfies the condition in paragraph 13(1)(a) of Part III; (c) £71.70; (d) not
less than 18. (d) £90.50. (3) Couple— (3) (a) where both members are aged less
than 18 and— (a) £108.30; (i) at least one of them is treated as responsible
for a child, or (ii) had they not been members of a couple, each would have
been a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61 applied, or (iii) had they not
been members of a couple, the claimant would have been a person to whom
regulation 59, 60 or 61 applied and his partner satisfies the requirements for
entitlement to income support or an income-related employment and support
allowance other than the requirement to make a claim for it, or (iv) they are
married or civil partners and one member of the couple is a person to whom
regulation 59, 60 or 61 applies and the other member is registered in
accordance with regulation 62, or (iva) they are married or civil partners and
each member of the couple is a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61 applies,
or (v) there is a direction under Article 18 of the Order in respect of each
member, or (vi) there is a direction under Article 18 of the Order in respect
of one of them and the other is a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61
applies, or (vii) there is a direction under Article 18 of the Order in
respect of one of them and the other satisfies requirements for entitlement to
income support or an income-related employment and support allowance other
than the requirement to make a claim for it; (b) where both members are aged
less than 18 and sub-paragraph (3)(a) does not apply but one member of the
couple falls within regulation 57(2) and either— (b) £71.70; (i) is a person
to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61 applies, or (ii) is the subject of a direction
under Article 18 of the Order; (c) where both members are aged less than 18
and neither head (a) nor (b) of sub-paragraph (3) applies but one member of
the couple— (c) £71.70; (i) is a person to whom regulation 59, 60 or 61
applies, or (ii) is the subject of a direction under Article 18 of the Order;
(d) where both members are aged less than 18 and head (a), (b) or (c) of sub-
paragraph (3) does not apply but one member of the couple is a person who
satisfies the requirements of paragraph 13(1)(a); (d) £71.70; (e) where— (e)
£142.25; (i) both members are aged not less than 18, or (ii) one member is
aged not less than 18 and the other member is a person who is— (aa) under 18,
and (bb) treated as being responsible for a child; (f) where paragraph (e)
does not apply and one member is aged not less than 18 and the other member is
a person under 18 who— (f) £142.25; (i) is a person to whom regulation 59, 60
or 61 applies, or (ii) is the subject of a direction under Article 18 of the
Order, or (iii) satisfies requirements for entitlement to income support or
would do so if he were not a member of a couple other than the requirement to
make a claim for it, or (iv) satisfies requirements for entitlement to an
income-related employment and support allowance other than the requirement to
make a claim for it; (g) where one member is aged not less than 18 but less
than 25 and the other member is a person under 18— (g) £71.70; (i) to whom
none of regulations 59 to 61 applies, or (ii) who is not the subject of a
direction under Article 18 of the Order, and (iii) does not satisfy
requirements for entitlement to income support or an income-related employment
and support allowance disregarding the requirement to make a claim for it; (h)
where one member is aged not less than 25 and the other member is a person
under 18— (h) £90.50. (i) to whom none of regulations 59 to 61 applies, or
(ii) who is not the subject of a direction under Article 18 of the Order, and
(iii) does not satisfy requirements for entitlement to income support or an
income-related employment and support allowance disregarding the requirement
to make a claim for it.

  Part IV of Schedule 1 to the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 as
amended by this Order

Article 26(5)

##### WEEKLY AMOUNTS OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART III

      Premium Amount   20. —(2)  Pensioner premium for persons who have
attained the qualifying age for state pension credit— (2) (a) where the
claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 10(a); (a) £127.65; (b) where
the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 10(b); (b) £190.70; (c)
where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 10(c). (c) £190.70.
(3) Pensioner premium for claimants whose partner has attained the age of 75
where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 11. (3) £190.70. (4)
Higher pensioner premium— (4) (a) where the claimant satisfies the condition
in paragraph 12(1)(a); (a) £127.65; (b) where the claimant satisfies the
condition in paragraph 12(1)(b) or (c). (b) £190.70. (5)  Disability premium—
(5) (a) where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 13(1)(a); (a)
£42.50; (b) where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph 13(1)(b)
or (c). (b) £60.60. (6)  Severe disability premium— (6) (a) where the claimant
satisfies the condition in paragraph 15(1); (a) £81.50; (b) where the claimant
satisfies the condition in paragraph 15(2)— (b) (i) if there is someone in
receipt of a carer’s allowance or if any partner of the claimant satisfies
that condition by virtue of paragraph 15(5); (i) £81.50; (ii) if no-one is in
receipt of such an allowance. (ii) £163.00. (7)  Disabled child premium. (7)
£80.01 in respect of each child or young person in respect of whom the
conditions specified in paragraph 16 are satisfied. (8) Carer premium. (8)
£45.60 in respect of each person who satisfied the condition specified in
paragraph 17. (9) Enhanced disability premium where the conditions in
paragraph 15A are satisfied. (9) (a) £32.20 in respect of each child or young
person in respect of whom the conditions specified in paragraph 15A are
satisfied; (b) £20.85 in respect of each person who is neither— (i) a child or
young person, nor (ii) a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage, in
respect of whom the conditions specified in paragraph 15A are satisfied; (c)
£29.75 where the claimant is a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and
the conditions specified in paragraph 15A are satisfied in respect of a member
of that couple or polygamous marriage.

  Part IVB of Schedule 1 to the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 as
amended by this Order

Article 26(6)

##### WEEKLY AMOUNTS OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART IVA

      Premium Amount   20M. —(1) Pensioner premium where one member of a
joint-claim couple has attained the qualifying age for state pension credit
and the condition in paragraph 20E is satisfied. (1) £190.70. (2) Higher
pensioner premium where one member of a joint-claim couple satisfies the
condition in paragraph 20F. (2) £190.70. (3) Disability premium where one
member of a joint-claim couple satisfies the condition in paragraph 20G(1).
(3) £60.60. (4) Severe disability premium where one member of a joint-claim
couple satisfies the condition in paragraph 20I(1)— (4) (i) if there is
someone in receipt of a carer’s allowance or if either member satisfies that
condition only by virtue of paragraph 20I(4); (i) £81.50; (ii) if no-one is in
receipt of such an allowance. (ii) £163.00. (5) Carer premium. (5) £45.60 in
respect of each person who satisfied the condition specified in paragraph 20J.
(6) Enhanced disability premium where the conditions in paragraph 20IA are
satisfied. (6) £29.75 where the conditions specified in paragraph 20IA are
satisfied in respect of a member of a joint-claim couple.

  Part 1 of Schedule 4 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations
2008 as amended by this Order

Article 30(1), (2) and (3)

1

This paragraph applies to cases other than those falling within paragraphs 2
to 7 of Schedule 2 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2017.

##### PRESCRIBED AMOUNTS

1

The weekly amounts specified in column (2)  in respect of each person or
couple specified in column (1) shall be the weekly amounts specified for the
purposes of regulations 67(1) and 68 (prescribed amounts and polygamous
marriages).

      Column (1) Column (2) Person or Couple Amount   (1) Single claimant— (1)
(a) who satisfies the conditions set out in section 2(2) or 4(4) of the Act or
who is a member of the work-related activity group; (a) £90.50; (b) aged not
less than 25; (b) £90.50; (c) aged less than 25. (c) £71.70. (2) Lone parent
or a person who has no partner and who is responsible for and a member of the
same household as a young person— (2) (a) who satisfies the conditions set out
in section 4(4) of the Act or who is a member of the work-related activity
group and satisfies the conditions set out in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act;
(a) £90.50; (b) aged not less than 18; (b) £90.50; (c) aged less than 18. (c)
£71.70; (3) Couple— (3) (a) where both members are aged not less than 18; (a)
£142.25; (b) where one member is aged not less than 18 and the other member is
a person under 18 who— (b) £142.25; (i) if that other member had not been a
member of a couple, would satisfy the requirements for entitlement to income
support other than the requirement to make a claim for it, or (ii) if that
other member had not been a member of a couple, would satisfy the requirements
for entitlement to an income-related allowance, or (iii) satisfies the
requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order (prescribed
circumstances for persons aged 16 but less than 18), or (iv) is the subject of
a direction under Article 18 of that Order (persons under 18: severe
hardship); (c) where the claimant satisfies the conditions set out in section
4(4) of the Act or the claimant is a member of the work-related activity group
and satisfies the conditions set out in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act and
both members are aged less than 18 and— (c) £142.25; (i) at least one of them
is treated as responsible for a child, or (ii) had they not been members of a
couple, each would have qualified for an income-related allowance, or (iii)
had they not been members of a couple the claimant’s partner would satisfy the
requirements for entitlement to income support other than the requirement to
make a claim for it, or (iv) the claimant’s partner satisfies the requirements
of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, or (v) there is in force in
respect of the claimant’s partner a direction under Article 18 of that Order;
(d) where both members are aged less than 18 and— (d) £108.30; (i) at least
one of them is treated as responsible for a child, or (ii) had they not been
members of a couple, each would have qualified for an income-related
allowance, or (iii) had they not been members of a couple the claimant’s
partner satisfies the requirements for entitlement to income support other
than a requirement to make a claim for it, or (iv) the claimant’s partner
satisfies the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, or
(v) there is in force in respect of the claimant’s partner a direction under
Article 18 of that Order; (e) where the claimant is aged not less than 25 and
the claimant’s partner is a person under 18 who— (e) £90.50; (i) would not
qualify for an income-related allowance if the person were not a member of a
couple, (ii) would not qualify for income support if the person were not a
member of a couple, (iii) does not satisfy the requirements of Article
5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and (iv) is not the subject of a
direction under Article 18 of that Order; (f) where the claimant satisfies the
conditions set out in section 4(4) of the Act or the claimant is a member of
the work-related activity group and satisfies the conditions set out in Part 2
of Schedule 1 to the Act and the claimant’s partner is a person under 18 who—
(f) £90.50; (i) would not qualify for an income-related allowance if the
person were not a member of a couple, (ii) would not qualify for income
support if the person were not a member of a couple, (iii) does not satisfy
the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and (iv) is
not the subject of a direction under Article 18 of that Order; (g) where the
claimant satisfies the conditions set out in section 4(4) of the Act or the
claimant is a member of the work-related activity group and satisfies the
conditions set out in Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Act and both members are
aged less than 18 and head (c) does not apply; (g) £90.50; (h) where the
claimant is aged not less than 18 but less than 25 and the claimant’s partner
is a person under 18 who— (h) £71.70; (i) would not qualify for an income-
related allowance if the person were not a member of a couple, (ii) would not
qualify for income support if the person were not a member of a couple, (iii)
does not satisfy the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers
Order, and (iv) is not the subject of a direction under Article 18 of that
Order; (i) where both members are aged less than 18 and head (d) does not
apply. (i) £71.70.

2

This paragraph applies to cases falling within paragraphs 2 to 7 of Schedule 2
to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2017.

##### PRESCRIBED AMOUNTS

1

The weekly amounts specified in column (2) in respect of each person or couple
specified in column (1) shall be the weekly amounts specified for the purposes
of regulations 67(1) and 68 (prescribed amounts and polygamous marriages).

      Column (1) Column (2) Person or Couple Amount   (1) Single claimant— (1)
(a) who satisfies the conditions set out in section 2(2) or (3) or 4(4) or (5)
of the Act; (a) £90.50; (b) aged not less than 25; (b) £90.50; (c) aged less
than 25. (c) £71.70. (2) Lone parent or a person who has no partner and who is
responsible for and a member of the same household as a young person— (2) (a)
who satisfies the conditions set out in section 4(4) or (5) of the Act; (a)
£90.50; (b) aged not less than 18; (b) £90.50; (c) aged less than 18. (c)
£71.70; (3) Couple— (3) (a) where both members are aged not less than 18; (a)
£142.25; (b) where one member is aged not less than 18 and the other member is
a person under 18 who— (b) £142.25; (i) if that other member had not been a
member of a couple, would satisfy the requirements for entitlement to income
support other than the requirement to make a claim for it, or (ii) if that
other member had not been a member of a couple, would satisfy the requirements
for entitlement to an income-related allowance, or (iii) satisfies the
requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order (prescribed
circumstances for persons aged 16 but less than 18), or (iv) is the subject of
a direction under Article 18 of that Order (persons under 18: severe
hardship); (c) where the claimant satisfies the conditions set out in section
4(4) or (5) of the Act and both members are aged less than 18 and— (c)
£142.25; (i) at least one of them is treated as responsible for a child, or
(ii) had they not been members of a couple, each would have qualified for an
income-related allowance, or (iii) had they not been members of a couple the
claimant’s partner would satisfy the requirements for entitlement to income
support other than the requirement to make a claim for it, or (iv) the
claimant’s partner satisfies the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the
Jobseekers Order, or (v) there is in force in respect of the claimant’s
partner a direction under Article 18 of that Order; (d) where both members are
aged less than 18 and— (d) £108.30; (i) at least one of them is treated as
responsible for a child, or (ii) had they not been members of a couple, each
would have qualified for an income-related allowance, or (iii) had they not
been members of a couple the claimant’s partner satisfies the requirements for
entitlement to income support other than a requirement to make a claim for it,
or (iv) the claimant’s partner satisfies the requirements of Article
5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, or (v) there is in force in respect of
the claimant’s partner a direction under Article 18 of that Order; (e) where
the claimant is aged not less than 25 and the claimant’s partner is a person
under 18 who— (e) £90.50; (i) would not qualify for an income-related
allowance if the person were not a member of a couple, (ii) would not qualify
for income support if the person were not a member of a couple, (iii) does not
satisfy the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and
(iv) is not the subject of a direction under Article 18 of that Order; (f)
where the claimant satisfies the conditions set out in section 4(4) or (5) of
the Act and the claimant’s partner is a person under 18 who— (f) £90.50; (i)
would not qualify for an income-related allowance if the person were not a
member of a couple, (ii) would not qualify for income support if the person
were not a member of a couple, (iii) does not satisfy the requirements of
Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and (iv) is not the subject of a
direction under Article 18 of that Order; (g) where the claimant satisfies the
conditions set out in section 4(4) or (5) of the Act and both members are aged
less than 18 and head (c) does not apply; (g) £90.50; (h) where the claimant
is aged not less than 18 but less than 25 and the claimant’s partner is a
person under 18 who— (h) £71.70; (i) would not qualify for an income-related
allowance if the person were not a member of a couple, (ii) would not qualify
for income support if the person were not a member of a couple, (iii) does not
satisfy the requirements of Article 5(1)(f)(iii) of the Jobseekers Order, and
(iv) is not the subject of a direction under Article 18 of that Order; (i)
where both members are aged less than 18 and head (d) does not apply. (i)
£71.70.

  Part 3 of Schedule 4 to the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations
2008 as amended by this Order

Article 30(1), (4) and (5)

##### WEEKLY AMOUNT OF PREMIUMS SPECIFIED IN PART 2

  1.       Premium Amount   11. —(1) Pensioner premium for a person to whom
paragraph 5 applies who— (1) (a) is a single claimant and— (a) (ii) is
entitled to the support component, or (ii) £79.95; (iii) is not entitled to
the support component; (iii) £127.65; (b) is a member of a couple and— (b)
(ii) is entitled to the support component, or (ii) £143.00; (iii) is not
entitled to the support component. (iii) £190.70. (2) Severe disability
premium— (2) (a) where the claimant satisfies the condition in paragraph
6(2)(a); (a) £81.50; (b) where the claimant satisfies the condition in
paragraph 6(2)(b)— (b) (i) if there is someone in receipt of a carer’s
allowance or if the person or any partner satisfies that condition only by
virtue of paragraph 6(5), (i) £81.50; (ii) if no-one is in receipt of such an
allowance. (ii) £163.00. (3) Carer premium. (3) £45.60 in respect of each
person who satisfies the condition specified in paragraph 8(1). (4)> Enhanced
disability premium where the condition in paragraph 7 is satisfied. (4) (a)
£20.85 in respect of each person who is neither— (i) a child or young person,
nor (ii) A member of a couple or a polygamous marriage, in respect of whom the
condition specified in paragraph 7 is satisfied;  (b)  £29.75 where the
claimant is a member of a couple or a polygamous marriage and the condition
specified in paragraph 7 is satisfied in respect of a member of that couple or
polygamous marriage.

  2.       Premium Amount   11. —(1)  Pensioner premium for a person to whom
paragraph 5 applies who— (1) (a) is a single claimant and— (a) (i) is entitled
to the work-related activity component, or (i) £91.70; (ii) is entitled to the
support component, or (ii) £79.95; (iii) is not entitled to either of those
components, (iii) £127.65; (b) is a member of a couple and— (b) (i) is
entitled to the work-related activity component, (i) £154.75;  (ii)  is
entitled to the support component, or (ii) £143.00; (iii) is not entitled to
either of those components. (iii)  £190.70.

  Amounts of certain elements specified in the table in regulation 38 of the
Universal Credit Regulations as amended by this Order

 Article 32(2)

      Element Amount for each assessment period Standard allowance — single
claimant aged under 25 £311.68 single claimant aged 25 or over £393.45 joint
claimants both aged under 25 £489.23 joint claimants where either is aged 25
or over £617.60   Child element— first child or qualifying young person
£333.33 second and each subsequent child or qualifying young person £287.92
Additional amount for disabled child or qualifying young person— lower rate
£156.11 higher rate £487.58 LCW and LCWRA elements — limited capability for
work £156.11 limited capability for work and work-related activity £416.19
Carer element. £198.31 Childcare costs element— maximum amount for one child
£1,014.63 maximum amount for two or more children £1,739.37

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order, which corresponds to an Order ( S.I. 2024/242 ) made by the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under sections 150, 150A, 151 and
151A of the Social Security Administration Act 1992, alters the rates and
amounts of certain social security benefits and other sums.

  Part 2 relates to social security benefits, pensions and allowances.

  Article 3 and Schedule 1 alter the rates of benefits and increases of
benefit (except those referred to in Article 3(2)) specified in Parts I, III,
IV and V of Schedule 4 to the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992 (“ the Contributions and Benefits Act ”).

  Article 4 increases the rates and amounts of certain pensions and allowances
under the Contributions and Benefits Act.

  Article 5 increases the sums payable as part of a Category A or Category B
retirement pension under sections 11(1) and 13(2) and (3) of the Pension
Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 on account of increases in guaranteed
minimum pensions.

  Article 6 increases the rates and amounts relating to the state pension
under Part 1 of the Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 including the full
rate, amounts exceeding the full rate, the rate of increments and inherited
increments.

  Article 7 specifies the dates from which the sums specified for rates or
amounts of benefits in Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 11, 12 and 13 are altered.

  Article 8 increases the rate of statutory sick pay.

  Article 9 increases the rate of statutory maternity pay.

  Article 10 increases the rates of statutory paternity pay, statutory
adoption pay, statutory shared parental pay and statutory parental bereavement
pay.

  Article 11 increases the rate of graduated retirement benefit.

  Article 12 increases the amount of a Category C retirement pension.

  Article 13 increases the prescribed maximum additional pension for the
purposes of section 52(3) of the Contributions and Benefits Act.

  Article 14 increases the rates of disability living allowance.

  Article 15 increases the rates of personal independence payment.

  Article 16 increases the rates of age addition and the rates referred to in
Article 16(2) for claimants entitled to long-term incapacity benefit in so far
as they correspond to a claimant in Great Britain who was subject to
regulation 2(3) of the Employment and Support Allowance (Up-rating
Modification) (Transitional) Regulations 2008.

  Article 17 increases the rates of transitional invalidity allowance and the
rates referred to in Article 17(2) for claimants entitled to long-term
incapacity benefit in so far as they correspond to a claimant in Great Britain
who was subject to regulation 2(3) of the Employment and Support Allowance
(Up-rating Modification) (Transitional) Regulations 2008.

  Article 18 increases the rates of widowed mother’s allowance, widow’s
pension and widowed parent’s allowance.

  Article 19 specifies the rates of bereavement support payment.

  Part 3 relates to income support and housing benefit.

  Article 20 sets out the sums relevant to the applicable amount for the
purposes of income support. Article 20(3) and Schedule 2 sets out certain
personal allowances and Article 20(4) and (5) and Schedule 3 set out the
premiums.

  Article 21 provides for the percentage increase of sums payable by way of
special transitional additions to income support.

  Article 22 states the sum by which any income support of a person involved
in a trade dispute is reduced.

  Article 23 sets out the sums relevant to the applicable amount for the
purposes of housing benefit. Article 23(5) and Schedule 4 sets out certain
personal allowances and Article 23(7) and Schedule 5 set out the premiums.

  Article 24 sets out the sums relevant to the applicable amount for the
purposes of housing benefit for persons over the qualifying age for state
pension credit. Article 24(5) and Schedule 6 set out the personal allowances
and Article 24(6) and (7) and Schedule 7 set out the premiums.

  Part 4 relates to jobseeker’s allowance.

  Article 25 increases the age-related amounts for contribution-based
jobseeker’s allowance.

  Article 26 sets out the sums relevant to the applicable amount for the
purposes of income-based jobseeker’s allowance. Article 26(3) and Schedule 8
sets out certain personal allowances; Article 26(4) and (5) and Schedule 9 set
out the premiums; Article 26(6) and Schedule 10 set out the amounts of
premiums relevant to joint-claim couples.

  Article 27 states the sum by which any jobseeker’s allowance of a person
involved in a trade dispute is reduced.

  Article 28 increases the amounts of jobseeker’s allowance for the purposes
of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016.

  Part 5 relates to state pension credit.

  Article 29 specifies sums relevant to state pension credit.

  Part 6 relates to employment and support allowance.

  Article 30 sets out the sums relevant to the applicable amount for the
purposes of employment and support allowance under the Employment and Support
Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008. Article 30(2) and (3) and
Schedule 11 increase the contributory allowance of employment and support
allowance and the prescribed amounts for income-related employment and support
allowance; Article 30(3), (4) and (5) and Schedule 12 sets out the premiums
and Article 30(6) increases the components.

  Article 31 increases the prescribed amounts for employment and support
allowance set out in regulation 62 of the Employment and Support Allowance
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016.

  Part 7 relates to universal credit.

  Article 32 and Schedule 13 specify the amounts relevant to universal credit.

  Article 33 increases the amounts specified for the transitional severe
disability premium element in paragraph 5 of Schedule 2, and paragraph 5 of
Schedule 3, to the Universal Credit (Transitional Provisions) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016.

  Article 34 revokes the Social Security (2023 Benefits Up-rating) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2024.

