Title: The Universal Credit and Jobseeker’s Allowance (Work Search and Work Availability Requirements - limitations) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-05-31
Description: These Regulations amend regulation 95(5) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 216) and regulation 14(3)(b) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 218).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/18

## The Universal Credit and Jobseeker’s Allowance (Work Search and Work Availability Requirements - limitations) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Social Security

  Made   2nd February 2024

  Coming into operation   23rd February 2024

      The Department for Communities  makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by Articles 2, 8D(4), 8E(3) and 36(1) and (2)
of the Jobseekers (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and now vested in it , and
Articles 22(4), 23(3) and 48(1) and (2) of the Welfare Reform (Northern
Ireland) Order 2015 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Universal Credit and Jobseeker’s
Allowance (Work Search and Work Availability Requirements – limitations)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and come into operation on
23rd February 2024.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations

2

In regulation 95(5) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2016  (work search requirement and work availability requirement –
limitations), for “3 months” substitute  “4 weeks” .

### Amendment of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations

3

In regulation 14(3)(b) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016  (work search requirement and work availability requirement –
limitations), for “3 months” substitute  “4 weeks” .

### Transitional provision

4

Where, on the date that these Regulations come into operation, a work search
requirement or work availability requirement is limited under regulation 95(4)
of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 or regulation
14(3) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016, the
limitation is to end on–

4.a

the day before the day on which the limitation no longer applies; or

4.b

if earlier, 21st March 2024.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 2nd
February 2024       (L.S.)   David Tarr   A senior officer of the Department
for Communities

## Explanatory Note

(This is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend regulation 95(5) of the Universal Credit Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 216 ) and regulation 14(3)(b) of the
Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 218
).

Regulation 95(4) and (5) of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 and regulation 14(3) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016 apply where a claimant has previously carried out work
of a particular nature, or at a particular level of remuneration. In such
cases, the Department is required to limit work search and work availability
requirements to work of a similar nature or level of remuneration, provided
the Department is satisfied that the claimant will have reasonable prospects
of obtaining paid work in spite of the limitation. The limitation is for such
period as the Department thinks appropriate up to a maximum of 3 months. These
Regulations amend the maximum period of the limitation to 4 weeks.

Regulation 4 of these Regulations includes a transitional provision so that
any limitation that applies on the date that these Regulations come into
operation will end either on the day before the day that the limitation no
longer applies, or if earlier, 21st March 2024.

These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c.8)  are not subject to
the requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the
Social Security Advisory Committee.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for these Regulations as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, public or voluntary sectors is
foreseen.

