Title: The Local Government (Remote Meetings) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-07-04
Description: These Regulations are made under section 2(1) to (4) of the Local Government (Meetings and Performance) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021. These Regulations make provision regarding the running of council meetings.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/140

## The Local Government (Remote Meetings) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Local Government

Laid before the Assembly in draft

  Made   25th June 2024

  Coming into operation   25th June 2024

      The Department for Communities   makes these Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by section 2(1) to (4) of the Local Government (Meetings
and Performance) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Local Government (Remote Meetings)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024 and shall come into operation on 25th June
2024.

1.2

In these Regulations—

      “ the 2014 Act ” means the Local Government Act (Northern Ireland) 2014
;           “ council ” means a district council;           “ council meeting
” means a meeting of—         a council;           an executive of a council
(within the meaning of Part 6 of the 2014 Act);           a joint committee of
two or more councils; and           a committee or sub-committee of anything
within subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c).                 “ remote access ” means
the ability to attend or participate in a meeting by electronic means,
including by telephone conference, video conference, live webcasts, and live
interactive streaming; and           “ remote attendance ” is to be construed
in accordance with regulation  2(2)  and  (3) .

### Remote attendance

2

2.1

A reference in any enactment to a council meeting is not limited to a meeting
of persons all of whom, or any of whom, are present in the same place and a
reference to a “place” where a meeting is held, or to be held, includes
reference to more than one place including electronic, digital or virtual
locations such as internet locations, web addresses or conference call
telephone numbers.

2.2

In any enactment where there is a reference to a council meeting, a member of
a council (“a member in remote attendance”) attends the meeting at any time if
all of the conditions in paragraph (3) are satisfied.

2.3

Those conditions are that the member in remote attendance is able at that
time—

2.3.a

to hear, and where practicable see, and be so heard and, where practicable, be
seen by, the other members in attendance;

2.3.b

to hear, and where practicable see, and be so heard and, where practicable, be
seen by, any members of the public in attendance in order to exercise a right
to speak at the meeting; and

2.3.c

to be so heard and, where practicable, be seen by any other members of the
public in attendance.

2.4

In this regulation, any reference to a member, or a member of the public,
attending a meeting or being in attendance includes that person attending by
remote access.

2.5

A council must make standing orders governing remote attendance at meetings of
that council, which shall—

2.5.a

specify the basis or process for considering whether (including who is to
assess or decide whether) council meetings should or are to be held remotely;

2.5.b

govern the arrangements for and conduct of such meetings whenever such
meetings are to be held remotely; and

2.5.c

regulate—

2.5.c.i

the public’s access to such meetings, and

2.5.c.ii

the availability to the public of documents pertaining to such meetings,

whenever such meetings are to be held remotely.

### Related modifications

3

3.1

In section 28(7) (overview and scrutiny committees: supplementary provision)
and paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to the 2014 Act, a reference to a person
attending a meeting, or before a meeting, includes that person attending by
remote access.

3.2

Schedule 5 to the 2014 Act (meetings and proceedings) applies as follows—

3.2.a

any reference to being “present” at a meeting includes being present through
remote attendance; and

3.2.b

in paragraph 5(1)(a) after “the offices of the council” insert  “and on the
council’s website” .

3.3

In sections 39 (simple majority) and 40 (qualified majority) of the 2014 Act
references to “ members present and voting on the decision ” includes a member
being present through remote attendance.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 25th
June 2024.       (L.S.)   Anthony Carleton   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made under section 2(1) to (4) of the Local Government
(Meetings and Performance) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021. These Regulations make
provision regarding the running of council meetings.

  Regulation 1 sets out preliminary matters and defines terms used in these
Regulations.

  Regulation 2 makes provision for remote attendance at council meetings by
members of the council and requires a council to make standing orders
regarding the decision to hold a meeting remotely, the conduct of the meeting
and access by the public.

  Regulation 3 makes related modifications to the Local Government Act
(Northern Ireland) 2014.

