Title: The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-09-06
Description: These Regulations implement changes relating to the Local Government Pension Scheme (“the LGPS (NI)”). They do so by modifying certain statutory provisions contained in or made under the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 (c. 7), which made changes to the transitional protections for certain persons who were members of previous versions of the LGPS (NI) to address unlawful age discrimination of the sort identified in the case of McCloud v Lord Chancellor [2018] EWCA Civ 2844 (“the McCloud Remedy”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/159

## The Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

Local Government

Made 28th August 2024

Coming into operation 31st August 2024

The Department for Communities , with the consent of the Department of Finance
, makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 1(1)
and 3(1) to (3) of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 ,
and now vested in it ; and sections 80(1),and (3) and 81(1), (6) and (7) of
the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 . In accordance with
section 21 of the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014, the
Department for Communities has consulted with such persons or representatives
of such persons as appear to the Department likely to be affected by these
Regulations. The retrospective provisions contained in regulation 2 of these
Regulations do not appear to the Department for Communities to have
significant adverse effects in relation to the pension payable to or in
respect of members of the scheme established by the Local Government Pension
Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  or the schemes preserved by the
Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment and Transitional Provisions)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 , nor in any other way in relation to
members of those schemes. Accordingly, the procedures set out in section 23 of
the Public Service Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 are not applicable in
respect of these Regulations.

### Citation, commencement, effect and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Local Government Pension Scheme
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 31st August 2024, but this regulation
and regulation 2 have effect from 1st October 2023.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ the 2014 Regulations ” means the Local Government Pension Scheme Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2014; “ the 2023 Regulations ” means the Local Government
Pension Scheme (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 ; “ the
Committee ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 1 (interpretation) to the 2014
Regulations; “ Scheme year ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 1
(interpretation) to the 2014 Regulations; and “ the Transitional Regulations ”
means the Local Government Pension Scheme (Amendment and Transitional
Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014.

1.4

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Modification in respect of certain annual benefit statements relating to eligible members

2

2.1

This regulation applies in respect of any person who is—

2.1.a

either—

2.1.a.i

an “eligible member” under regulation 4A(2) (statutory underpin: general) of
the Transitional Regulations;

2.1.a.ii

a “pension credit member” under regulation 10(1) (pension credit members and
survivor members) of the 2014 Regulations; and

2.1.b

not a person to whom paragraph (4)(a) applies.

2.2

Where this regulation applies, the provisions listed in paragraph (3) are not
to be taken into account for the purposes of preparing an annual benefit
statement under regulation 99 (annual benefit statements) of the 2014
Regulations in respect of a Scheme year ending on or before 31st March 2024.

2.3

The provisions referred to in paragraph (2) are-

2.3.a

Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act
2022 (local government schemes);

2.3.b

all the provisions of the 2023 Regulations (including any amendments made by
regulations 2(1), (2), (4) to (6) or 3 of those Regulations to the
Transitional Regulations and the 2014 Regulations respectively).

2.4

The Committee may determine  that—

2.4.a

this regulation does not apply to a member or class of members, or

2.4.b

paragraph (2) applies to a member or class of members as if for “31st March
2024” there were substituted  “31st March 2025” .

2.5

A determination under paragraph (4)(a)—

2.5.a

may be made at any point before 1st April 2025; and

2.5.b

has effect from 1st October 2023.

2.6

A determination under paragraph (4)(b)—

2.6.a

may be made at any point before 31st August 2025;

2.6.b

may only be made if the Committee considers that it is reasonable in all the
circumstances in the case of that particular member or class of members; and

2.6.c

must be notified to any member to which it applies in the annual benefit
statement in respect of the Scheme year ending on 31st March 2025.

### Amendments to the 2014 Regulations

3

In Schedule 1 (interpretation) to the 2014 Regulations, in the appropriate
place insert insert—

“ eligible member ” has the same meaning as in  regulation 4A(2)  (statutory
underpin: general) of  the Transitional Regulations .”

### Amendments to the 2023 Regulations

4

In the 2023 Regulations, omit regulation 3(14)(b).

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 28th August
2024 Anthony Carleton A senior officer of the Department for Communities The
Department of Finance consents to these Regulations Sealed with the Official
Seal of the Department of Finance on 28th August 2024 Jeff McGuinness A senior
officer of the Department of Finance

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations implement changes relating to the Local Government Pension
Scheme (“the LGPS (NI)”). They do so by modifying certain statutory provisions
contained in or made under the Public Service Pensions and Judicial Offices
Act  2022 (c. 7) , which made changes to the transitional protections for
certain persons who were members of previous versions of the LGPS (NI) to
address unlawful age discrimination of the sort identified in the case of
McCloud v Lord Chancellor [2018] EWCA Civ 2844 (“the McCloud Remedy”).

Regulation 2 makes provision about the McCloud Remedy in the context of the
annual benefit statements (“ABSs”) that the Committee is required to issue to
their active and deferred members every year under regulation 99 of the Local
Government Pension Scheme Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014. Regulation 2(2)
and (3) provides that, where this regulation applies, provisions of the Public
Service Pensions and Judicial Offices Act 2022 and the Local Government
Pension Scheme (Amendment No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2023 are
disapplied for the purposes of preparing ABSs for the Scheme year 2023/24,
meaning that the Committee would not be required to include information about
the McCloud Remedy in that ABS. This provision has retrospective effect to 1
October 2023, meaning that it will apply in respect of any ABSs that have
issued between that date and these Regulations coming into operation. However,
regulation 2(4)(a) and (5) enables the Committee to determine that this should
not apply in respect of a member or class of members. Regulation 2(4)(b) and
(6) also allows the Committee to determine that this regulation should be
extended, in respect of a member or class of members, to ABSs for the Scheme
year 2024/25.

Regulations 3 and 4 correct an earlier drafting error.

