Title: The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-09-18
Description: These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in connection with, student finance. Three sets of Student Support Regulations are amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations”, the Student Fees (Amounts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 (“the 2005 Regulations”) and the Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 “the 2007 Regulations”.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/19

## The Education (Student Support, etc.) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Education

  Made   2nd February 2024

  Coming into operation-   26th February 2024

      The Department for the Economy  in exercise of the powers conferred by
Articles 3 and 8(4) of the Education (Student Support) (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998  and Articles 4(8) and 14(4) of the Higher Education (Northern
Ireland) Order 2005  makes the following Regulations.           In accordance
with Article 4(11)(a)(i) and (b)(i) of the Higher Education (Northern Ireland)
Order 2005 the Department is satisfied that the increases to the basic and
higher amounts are no greater than are required to maintain the value of those
amounts in real terms.

##### Citation, commencement and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as The Education (Student Support, etc.)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations come into operation on 26th February 2024.

1.3

The provisions of these Regulations specified in paragraph (4) apply only in
relation to the provision of support, and to fees and awards applicable, in
relation to a new academic year, whether or not anything done under these
Regulations is done before, on or after 1st August 2024.

1.4

The provisions mentioned in paragraph (3) are—

1.4.a

regulations 3 and 4;

1.4.b

regulations 23(b), 24(b), 25(b), 26(b), 27(b), 28(b), 29(b) and 30(3)(b)
(amendments relating to family members of persons granted leave under one of
the Ukraine Schemes);

1.4.c

regulations 31 to 59 (amendments relating to ordinary residence requirements
for existing protected categories or to in-year events);

1.4.d

regulation 72 and the Schedule (new payment rates: student support).

1.5

The provisions of these Regulations specified in paragraph (6) apply only in
relation to the provision of support in relation to—

1.5.a

a new course, or

1.5.b

a new academic year of an existing course,

whether or not anything done under these Regulation is done before, on or
after 1st August 2024.

1.6

The provisions mentioned in paragraph (5) are regulations 22, 23(a), 24(a),
25(a), 26(a), 27(a), 28(a), 29(a) and 30(2) and (3)(a) (amendments relating to
family members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes).

1.7

The following provisions of these Regulations apply in relation to the
provision of support to a student, and to fees and awards applicable, in
relation to a new course, whether or not anything done under these Regulations
is done before, on or after 1st August 2024—

1.7.a

regulations 8 and 9 (amendments to Master’s etc. courses in the Republic of
Ireland);

1.7.b

regulation 60 and 61.

1.8

In this regulation—

      existing course” means a course which begins—         on or after 1st
August 2023, and           on or before 31st July 2024;                 “new
course

 means a course which begins on or after 1st August 2024.

1.9

This regulation is subject to Chapter 14 (savings).

1.10

In these Regulations “ new academic year ” means an academic year which begins
on or after 1st August 2024.

1.11

In paragraph (10) an “academic year” is the period of twelve months beginning
with 1st January, 1st April, 1st July or 1st September of the calendar year in
which the academic year of the course in question begins, according to whether
the academic year of the course in question begins—

1.11.a

on or after 1st January and before 1st April;

1.11.b

on or after 1st April and before 1st July;

1.11.c

on or after 1st July and before 1st August; or

1.11.d

on or after 1st August and on or before 31st December.

##### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations —

2.a

“ the 2009 Regulations ” means the Education (Student Support) (No.2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 .

2.b

“ the 2007 Regulations ” means The Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and
Persons) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007 .

2.c

“ the 2005 Regulations ” means The Student Fees (Amounts) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2005

#### Amendment of the Student Fees (Amounts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005

##### Amendment to the 2005 Regulations

3

In regulation 3 (prescribed basic and higher amounts)—

3.a

for “£1,855” substitute  “£1,870” ; and

3.b

for “£4,710” substitute  “£4,750” .

##### 

4

In regulation 4 (prescribed basic and higher amounts for specified courses)—

4.a

for “£905” substitute  “£910” ; and

4.b

for “£2,340” substitute  “£2,360” .

#### Amendment to Disabled Students’ Allowance

##### Amendment to the 2009 Regulations

5

In regulation 117 (conversion of status – eligible students transferring to
designated distance learning courses) —

5.a

omit paragraph (2)(b).

5.b

in paragraph (2)(c) omit “(or, where sub-paragraph (b) applies, further
reduced)”.

##### 

6

In regulation 118(conversion of status – eligible distance learning students
transferring to designated courses) —

6.a

in paragraph (2)(c) after “or 6” insert  “(other than an amount of disabled
students’ allowance)” ;

6.b

in paragraph (2)(d) omit “(or, where sub-paragraph (c) applies, further
reduced)”.

##### 

7

In regulation 135  (conversion of status)—

7.a

omit paragraph (3)(b);

7.b

in paragraph (3)(c) omit “(or, where sub-paragraph (b) applies, further
reduced)”.

7.c

in paragraph (12)(c) after “or 6” insert  “(other than an amount of disabled
students’ allowance)” .

7.d

in paragraph (12)(d) omit “(or, where sub-paragraph (c) applies, further
reduced)”.

#### Amendments to Master’s, etc. Courses in the Republic of Ireland

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

8

In regulation 141(designated postgraduate courses)   after paragraph
(1)(c)(vi) insert—

8.vii

provided by a relevant institution of higher education in the Republic of
Ireland or by a relevant institution of higher education in the Republic of
Ireland in conjunction with an institution outside of the Republic of Ireland;

##### 

9

In regulation 152 (designated Master’s, etc. courses)  —

9.a

in paragraph (1)—

9.a.i

after sub-paragraph (c)(vi) insert—

9.a.i.vii

provided by a relevant institution of higher education in the Republic of
Ireland or by a relevant institution of higher education in the Republic of
Ireland in conjunction with an institution outside of the Republic of Ireland;

9.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (d) after “United Kingdom” insert  “or the Republic of
Ireland” .

9.b

in paragraph (3)(e) after “United Kingdom” each time it appears insert  “or
the Republic of Ireland” .

#### Omission of Qualifying Course and Student References

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

10

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)  omit the definition of “qualifying
course”.

##### 

11

In regulation 5(eligible students)  —

11.a

in paragraph (11)—

11.a.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute “and” ;

11.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

11.a.iii

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute “eligible student” ;

11.b

in paragraph (11C)—

11.b.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute “and” ;

11.b.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

11.b.iii

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute “eligible student” ;

11.c

in paragraph (11D) in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or
qualifying student” substitute “eligible student” ;

11.d

in paragraph (11E)—

11.d.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute “and” ;

11.d.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

11.d.iii

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute “eligible student” ;

11.e

in paragraph (11F)—

11.e.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute “and” ;

11.e.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

11.e.iii

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute “eligible student” ;

11.f

in paragraph (12)—

11.f.i

at the end of sub-paragraph (a)(i), for “or” substitute “and” ;

11.f.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a)(ii) (including “and” at the end);

11.f.iii

in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or qualifying student”
substitute “eligible student” ;

11.g

in paragraph (13) for “, an eligible student or a qualifying student”
substitute  “or an eligible student” .

##### 

12

In regulation 57(4) (qualifying conditions for the maintenance grant)   for
“qualifying student” substitute “current system student” .

##### 

13

In regulation 97 (provision of United Kingdom national insurance number)—

13.a

in paragraph (1), for “eligible or qualifying student” substitute “eligible
student” ;

13.b

in paragraph (2), for “eligible or qualifying student” substitute “eligible
student” ;

13.c

in paragraph (3), for “eligible or qualifying student”, in both places it
occurs, substitute “eligible student” .

##### 

14

In regulation 98 (information requirements)—

14.a

in paragraph (1), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” ;

14.b

in paragraph (2), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” ;

14.c

in paragraph (3), for “, eligible student or qualifying student” substitute
“or eligible student” .

##### 

15

In regulation 105(eligible distance learning students)

15.a

in paragraph (11C) in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or
qualifying student” substitute “eligible student” ;

15.b

in paragraph (11D) in the words after sub-paragraph (b), for “eligible or
qualifying student” substitute “eligible student” .

#### Delivery of Provision

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

16

In regulation 6 (designated courses) —

16.a

in paragraph (1)—

16.a.i

in sub-paragraph (d)(ii) omit “and” where it occurs;

16.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (e)(x) for “.” insert  “; and” ;

16.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (e)  insert —

16.a.iii.f

substantially provided in the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland.

;

16.b

in paragraph (5)(b) after “United Kingdom” insert  “or the Republic of
Ireland” ;

16.c

after paragraph (6)(d)  insert—

16.c.e

a course is substantially provided in the United Kingdom or the Republic of
Ireland where at least half of the teaching and supervision which comprise the
course is provided in the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland.

##### 

17

In regulation 109 (4A) (support for distance learning courses)   after “United
Kingdom” insert  “or the Republic of Ireland” .

##### 

18

In regulation141(1)(d) (designated postgraduate courses) after sub-paragraph
(d)  insert—

18.e

substantially provided in the United Kingdom or the Republic of Ireland.

.

#### Amendments Relating to Immigration Rules

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

19

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulation 10 of these
regulations)—

19.a

after the definition of “household income”, insert—

“ immigration rules ” has the meaning given in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971 ;

;

19.b

in the definition of “person granted Calais leave”, in paragraph (a) omit “,
as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

19.c

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

19.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

19.e

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

19.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) for “Immigration Rules as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

19.g.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it appears, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

19.g.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

19.h.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.h.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.j

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

19.j.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.j.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

19.k

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

##### 

20

In Schedule 2 Part 2 (categories)—

20.a

in paragraph (3)(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

20.b

in paragraph 4F(4) (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)
omit “(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

21

21.1

The Schedule (Qualifying Persons)  is amended as follows—

21.2

in paragraph (1)—

21.2.a

after the definition of “family member”, insert—““ immigration rules ” has the
meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 ;”;

21.2.b

in the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection”, in paragraph
(a) omit “as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

21.2.c

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner”, in paragraph (a) omit “, as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971”;

21.2.d

in the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse”, in paragraph (i) omit “, as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

21.2.e

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i) for “Immigration Rules as defined in
section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules ” ;

21.2.f

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)(i)—

21.2.f.i

for “Immigration Rules”, in the first place it appears, substitute
“immigration rules” ;

21.2.f.ii

for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.g

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme”—

21.2.g.i

in paragraph (a)(i), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.g.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of
the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.h

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme”, in paragraph (a), for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1)
of the Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.i

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme”—

21.2.i.i

in paragraph (a)(i) for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.i.ii

in paragraph (a)(ii) for “Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971” substitute  “immigration rules” ;

21.2.j

in the definition of “person granted stateless leave”, in paragraph (a) omit
“(within the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

21.3

in paragraph (3)(2) omit “(as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act
1971)”;

21.4

in paragraph 4B (Persons granted Calais leave) in paragraph (a) omit “, as
defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971”;

21.5

in paragraph 4F (Persons granted Calais leave) in paragraph (4) omit “(within
the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971)”.

#### Amendments Relating to Family Members of Persons Granted Leave under one of the Afghan Schemes or one of the Ukraine Schemes

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

22

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 10 and 19 of
these regulations)—

22.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

22.a.a

who has indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside the
immigration rules, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme;
and

;

22.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme” in paragraph (a)—

22.b.i

after sub-paragraph (i) insert

22.b.i.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

22.b.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) insert  “or” ;

22.b.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

22.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” ;

22.b.v

omit sub-paragraph (iv).

##### 

23

In regulation 2A(3) (as inserted by regulation 36 of these Regulations)—

23.a

in sub-paragraph (i), after “student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” ;

23.b

in sub-paragraph (j), after “student” insert  “or the student’s spouse, civil
partner or parent” .

##### 

24

In regulation 5 (eligible students) (as amended by regulation 11 of these
regulations) —

24.a

in paragraph (11E) (a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

24.b

in paragraph (11F) (a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

##### 

25

In regulation 105 (Eligible distance learning students) (as amended by
regulation 15 of these regulations) —

25.a

in paragraph (11E) (a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

25.b

in paragraph (11F) (a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

##### 

26

In regulation 122 (Eligible part-time students)—

26.a

in paragraph (10E) (a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

26.b

in paragraph (10F) (a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

##### 

27

In regulation 139 (Eligible postgraduate students)—

27.a

in paragraph (12E) (a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

27.b

in paragraph (12F) (a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

##### 

28

In regulation 149 (Eligible Master’s, etc. students)—

28.a

in paragraph (11E) (a), after “Afghan Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” ;

28.b

in paragraph (11F) (a), after “Ukraine Schemes” insert  “or the spouse, civil
partner, child or step-child of such a person” .

##### 

29

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (eligible students: categories)—

29.a

For paragraph 14  —

(including the heading) substitute—

########### Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members”;

29.a.14

29.a.14.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.a.14.2

A person who—

29.a.14.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

29.a.14.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

29.a.14.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

29.a.14.2.d

is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.a.14.3

A person who—

29.a.14.3.a

is—

29.a.14.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

29.a.14.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

29.a.14.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

29.a.14.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

29.a.14.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of the person
granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

29.a.14.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

29.a.14.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

29.a.14.3.e

is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.a.14.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

29.b

For paragraph 16 (including the heading) substitute—

########### Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

29.b.16

29.b.16.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.b.16.2

A person who—

29.b.16.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

29.b.16.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

29.b.16.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

29.b.16.2.d

is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.b.16.3

A person who—

29.b.16.3.a

is—

29.b.16.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

29.b.16.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

29.b.16.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

29.b.16.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

29.b.16.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of the person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

29.b.16.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

29.b.16.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

29.b.16.3.e

is ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on the course start date.

29.b.16.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

30

30.1

The Schedule (Qualifying Persons) (as amended by regulation 21 of these
regulations) is amended as follows—

30.2

in paragraph (1)—

30.2.a

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

30.2.a.a

who has indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside the
immigration rules, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme;
and

;

30.2.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Policy Scheme”, in paragraph (a)—

30.2.b.i

after sub-paragraph (i) insert

30.2.b.i.ia

indefinite leave to enter the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.1 of
Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the immigration rules or
indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under paragraph ARAP 6.2 of
that Appendix of those rules;

;

30.2.b.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) insert  “or” ;

30.2.b.iii

at the end of sub-paragraph (iii), for “or” substitute  “and” ;

30.2.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (iv), after “of those rules” insert  “or paragraph ARAP 16.1
of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of those rules” ;

30.2.b.v

omit sub-paragraph (iv).

30.3

in  ... the Schedule (qualifying persons: categories)—

30.3.a

for paragraph 4G  (including the heading) substitute—

############# Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

30.3.a.4G

30.3.a.4G.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.a.4G.2

A person who—

30.3.a.4G.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes;

30.3.a.4G.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

30.3.a.4G.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

30.3.a.4G.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.a.4G.3

A person who—

30.3.a.4G.3.a

is—

30.3.a.4G.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

30.3.a.4G.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes;

30.3.a.4G.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

30.3.a.4G.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

30.3.a.4G.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date;

30.3.a.4G.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

30.3.a.4G.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

30.3.a.4G.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.a.4G.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

;

30.3.b

for paragraph 4I  (including the heading) substitute—

############# Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

30.3.b.4I

30.3.b.4I.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, who is ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.b.4I.2

A person who—

30.3.b.4I.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes;

30.3.b.4I.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person;

30.3.b.4I.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

30.3.b.4I.2.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.b.4I.3

A person who—

30.3.b.4I.3.a

is—

30.3.b.4I.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

30.3.b.4I.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes;

30.3.b.4I.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

30.3.b.4I.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes; or

30.3.b.4I.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date;

30.3.b.4I.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date;

30.3.b.4I.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom; and

30.3.b.4I.3.e

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the course start date.

30.3.b.4I.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

.

#### Amendments relating to the ordinary residence requirements

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

31

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation) (as amended by regulation 10, 19 and 22 of
these regulations), after the definition of “course for the initial training
of teachers” insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

##### 

32

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (eligible students: categories) ( as amended by
regulation 29 of these regulations)—

32.a

in paragraph 2A(1)(a)  (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom), for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” ;

32.b

in paragraph 4 (Refugees and their family members)—

32.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1)(c) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.b.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(e) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.c

in paragraph 4A  (persons granted section 67 leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.d

in paragraph 4B  (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.e

in paragraph 4C  (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

32.e.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.e.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(e) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.f

in paragraph 4D  (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.g

in paragraph 4E  (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.h

in paragraph 4F  (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

32.h.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.h.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(c) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.h.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.i

in paragraph 5  (persons with leave to enter or remain on the grounds of
discretionary leave and their family members)—

32.i.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.i.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.i.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

32.j

in paragraph 8(1)(c)  (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “ the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins ” substitute  “the course
start date” ;

32.k

in paragraph 8A(1)(d)  (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “ the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins ” substitute  “the course
start date” .

32.l

in paragraph 15  (evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” ;

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

33

In regulation 2 after the definition of “course for the initial training of
teachers” insert—

“ the course start date ” means the day on which the first term of the first
academic year of a course actually begins;

.

##### 

34

In  ... the Schedule (qualifying persons: categories) (as amended by
regulations 21 and 30 of these regulations)—

34.a

in paragraph 2A(1)(a)  (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom) for
“the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” ;

34.b

in paragraph 4 (Refugees and their family members)—

34.b.i

in sub-paragraph (1)(c) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.b.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(e) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.c

in paragraph 4A (c) (persons grated section 67 leave), for “the first day of
the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.d

in paragraph 4B (c) (persons granted Calais leave), for “the first day of the
first academic year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.e

in paragraph 4C  (persons granted humanitarian protection and their family
members)—

34.e.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.e.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.e.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(e) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.f

in paragraph 4D  (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner), for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.g

in paragraph 4E  (persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse), for “the first day of the first academic
year of the course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.h

in paragraph 4F  (persons granted stateless leave and their family members)—

34.h.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.h.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(b) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.h.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(c) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.i

in paragraph 4H  (evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan),
for “the first day of the first academic year of the course” substitute  “the
course start date” ;

34.j

in paragraph 5  (persons with leave to enter or remain on the grounds of
discretionary leave and their family members)—

34.j.i

in paragraph (1) for “the first day of the first academic year of the course”
substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.j.ii

in sub-paragraph (2)(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.j.iii

in sub-paragraph 3(d) for “the first day of the first academic year of the
course” substitute  “the course start date” ;

34.k

in paragraph 8(1)(c) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” ;

34.l

in paragraph 8A (1)(d) (persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have
exercised a right of residence elsewhere), for “the day on which the first
term of the first academic year actually begins” substitute  “the course start
date” .

#### Amendments relating to students becoming eligible for student support in the course of an academic year

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

35

In regulation 2 (interpretation) (as amended by regulations 10, 19, 22, and 31
of these regulations)—

35.a

in the heading, after interpretation insert “: general” ;

35.b

in paragraph (1)—

35.b.i

after the definition of “contribution” insert—

“ course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(5);

;

35.b.ii

after the definition of “disabled students’ allowance” insert—

“ distance learning designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation
2A(6);

;

35.b.iii

after the definition of “intensive course” insert—

“ in-year qualifying event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(2);

;

35.b.iv

after the definition of “long courses loan” insert—

“Master’s, etc. designation event” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(9);

;

35.b.v

after the definition of “ordinary duration” insert—

“ part-time course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation
2A(7);

;

35.b.vi

after the definition of “person with protected rights” insert—

“ postgraduate course designation event ” has the meaning given in regulation
2A(8);

;

35.b.vii

after the definition of “private institution” insert—

“ protected category event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(3);

;

35.b.viii

after the definition of “Scottish healthcare allowance” insert—

“ settled status event ” has the meaning given in regulation 2A(4);

.

##### 

36

After regulation 2 insert—

######### Meaning of “in-year qualifying event”, “protected category event”, “settled status event”, “course designation event” etc. and related matters

36.2A

36.2A.1

This regulation defines “in-year qualifying event”, “protected category
event”, “settled status event”, “course designation event”, “distance learning
designation event”, “part-time course designation event”, “postgraduate course
designation event” and “Master’s, etc. designation event”, makes related
provision for the purposes of these Regulations.

36.2A.2

“ In-year qualifying event ”, in relation to a student, means—

36.2A.2.a

a protected category event which occurs after the course start date;

36.2A.2.b

a settled status event;

36.2A.2.c

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3(1)(a) of Part 2 of
Schedule 2;

36.2A.2.d

where regulation 5(2A), 105(2A), 122(2A), 139(3A) or 149(2A) applies, the
student becomes a person described in paragraph 12(a) of Part 2 of Schedule 2;

36.2A.2.e

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 6A(1)(a) or 6B(1)(a) of
Part 2 of Schedule 2, or where regulation 5(2A), 105(2A), 122(2A), 139(3A) or
149(2A) applies, in paragraph 6(1)(a) of Part 2 of Schedule 2;

36.2A.2.f

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 11A(a) of Part 2 of
Schedule 2 or, where regulation 5(2A), 105(2A), 122(2A), 139(3A) or 149(2A)
applies, in paragraph 11(1)(a) of Part 2 of Schedule 2; or

36.2A.2.g

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 9B(1)(a)(ii) of Part 2 of
Schedule 2.

36.2A.3

“ Protected category event ”, in relation to a student, means—

36.2A.3.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as
a refugee;

36.2A.3.b

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted stateless leave;

36.2A.3.c

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted humanitarian protection;

36.2A.3.d

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted leave to enter or remain on the grounds of discretionary leave;

36.2A.3.e

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

36.2A.3.f

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

36.2A.3.g

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

36.2A.3.h

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

36.2A.3.i

the student  ... becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan
Schemes; or

36.2A.3.j

the student  ... becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine
Schemes.

36.2A.4

“ Settled status event ”, in relation to a student, means the student becomes
a family member described in paragraph 9A(1)(a), 9C(1)(a) or 9D(1)(a) of Part
2 of Schedule 2.

36.2A.5

“ Course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means the course
becomes a course designated under regulation 6;

36.2A.6

“ Distance learning designation event ”, in relation to a course, means the
course becomes a course designated under regulation 107;

36.2A.7

“ Part-time course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means the
course is designated under regulation 124;

36.2A.8

“ Postgraduate course designation event ”, in relation to a course, means the
course is designated under regulation 141;

36.2A.9

“Master’s, etc. designation event”, in relation to a course, means the course
is designated under regulation 152;

36.2A.10

Where a protected category event occurs in relation to a student after the
course start date, paragraph (11) applies for the purposes of determining
whether that event results in the student becoming an eligible student,
eligible distance learning student, eligible part-time student, eligible
postgraduate student or eligible Master’s etc student.

36.2A.11

The student is to be treated, for the purposes of determining whether the
student satisfies any requirement in Schedule 2 to be ordinarily resident in
Northern Ireland on the course start date, as if the student was, on the
course start date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was
residing on that date.

.

##### 

37

In regulation 10(2)(a) (time limits), for “one of the events listed in
regulation 18” substitute  “an in-year qualifying event or a course
designation event” .

##### 

38

For regulation 17 (students becoming eligible during the course of an academic
year) substitute—

######### Students becoming eligible during the course of an academic year

38.17

38.17.1

Subject to paragraph 1(d) where—

38.17.1.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year;

38.17.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
student occurs—

38.17.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

38.17.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

38.17.1.c

an in-year qualifying event which results in a student becoming an eligible
student occurs within the first three months of an academic year,

the student may qualify for a fee loan in accordance with this Part in respect
of that academic year;

38.17.1.d

a fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year beginning before
the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

39

Omit regulation 18  (events).

##### 

40

In regulation 39(general qualifying conditions for grants for living and other
costs), for paragraph (7)  substitute—

40.7

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

40.7.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

40.7.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a particular grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of that academic year.

40.7A

Subject to paragraph (7B), where—

40.7A.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

40.7A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a particular grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of part of that academic year.

40.7B

student does not qualify for such a grant in respect of any academic year
beginning before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

41

In regulation 42 (amount of disabled students’ allowance), for paragraph (6)
substitute—

41.6

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

41.6.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

41.6.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for the disabled students’ allowance in respect of the
four quarters of that academic year.

41.6A

Where—

41.6A.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

41.6A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for the disabled students’ allowance in respect of the
qualifying quarters.

41.6B

For the purposes of paragraph (6A) “ the qualifying quarters ” means—

41.6B.a

the quarter in which the relevant event occurs; and

41.6B.b

if relevant, such other quarters as begin after the relevant event occurs.

.

##### 

42

In regulation 46 (childcare grant), for paragraph (11)  substitute—

42.11

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

42.11.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

42.11.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a childcare grant in respect of the four quarters
of that academic year.

42.11A

Where—

42.11A.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

42.11A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a childcare grant in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

43

In regulation 48(8)(d) (calculations) for “an event referred to in regulation
18” substitute—

—

43.i

course designation event, or

43.ii

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event)

.

##### 

44

For regulation 50A  substitute—

######### Quarters in respect of which grant for travel is payable

44.50A

44.50A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), a grant for travel is payable in respect of
the four quarters of the academic year.

44.50A.2

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

44.50A.2.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

44.50A.2.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a grant for travel in respect of the four quarters
of the first academic year of the course.

44.50A.3

Where—

44.50A.3.a

a course designation event which results in a student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

44.50A.3.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a grant for travel in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

45

In regulation 57 (qualifying conditions for maintenance grants) (as amended by
regulation 12 of these regulations), for paragraph (5)  substitute—

45.5

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

45.5.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

45.5.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a maintenance grant in respect of the four
quarters of that academic year.

45.5A

Where—

45.5A.a

a course designation event which results in student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

45.5A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a maintenance grant in respect of such quarters of
the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

46

In regulation 59 (qualifying conditions for special support grant), for
paragraph (5)  substitute—

46.5

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

46.5.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

46.5.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a special support grant in respect of the four
quarters of that academic year.

46.5A

Where—

46.5A.a

a course designation event which results in student’s course becoming a
designated course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

46.5A.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible student occurs in the course of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a special support grant in respect of such
quarters of the academic year as begin after the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

47

In regulation 74  (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year)—

47.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

47.a.1

Where any of the following events occur in the course of an academic year, a
student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of such quarters in
respect of which such a loan is payable as beginning after the event in
question occurs—

47.a.1.a

a course designation event which results in the student’s course becoming a
designated course; or

47.a.1.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in the student becoming an eligible student.

47.a.1A

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

47.a.1A.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

47.a.1A.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a loan for living costs in respect of all quarters
of that academic year in respect of which a loan for living costs is payable.

.

47.b

omit paragraph (2).

##### 

48

For regulation 106 (students becoming eligible during the course of the
academic year) substitute—

######### Students becoming eligible during the course of the academic year

48.106

48.106.1

Subject to paragraph (1)(d) where—

48.106.1.a

a distance learning course designation event which results in a student’s
course becoming a designated distance learning course occurs in the course of
an academic year;

48.106.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
distance learning student occurs—

48.106.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

48.106.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

48.106.1.c

an in-year qualifying event occurs within the first three months of an
academic year which results in a student becoming an eligible distance
learning student,

the student may qualify for a fee grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of that academic year;

48.106.1.d

a fee grant is not available in respect of any academic year beginning before
the academic year in which the event in question occurs.”.

48.106.2

Subject to paragraph (2)(d) where—

48.106.2.a

a distance learning course designation event which results in a student’s
course becoming a designated distance learning course occurs in the course of
an academic year;

48.106.2.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
distance learning student occurs—

48.106.2.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

48.106.2.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

48.106.2.c

an in-year qualifying event occurs within the first three months of an
academic year which results in a student becoming an eligible distance
learning student,

the student may qualify for a distance learning fee loan in accordance with
this Part in respect of that academic year;

48.106.2.d

a distance learning fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year
beginning before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

48.106.3

Subject to paragraph (3)(d) where—

48.106.3.a

a distance learning course designation event which results in a student’s
course becoming a designated distance learning course occurs in the course of
an academic year; or

48.106.3.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
distance learning student occurs—

48.106.3.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

48.106.3.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

48.106.3.c

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible distance learning student occurs within the
first three months of an academic year,

the student may qualify for a grant for books, travel and other expenditure in
respect of such quarters, in respect of which a loan for living costs is
payable, beginning after the event in question occurs;

48.106.3.d

a grant for books, travel and other expenditure is not available in respect of
any academic year beginning before the academic year in which the event in
question occurs.

48.106.4

Subject to paragraph (4)(d) where—

48.106.4.a

a distance learning course designation event which results in a student’s
course becoming a distance learning course occurs in the course of an academic
year; or

48.106.4.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
distance learning student occurs—

48.106.4.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

48.106.4.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

48.106.4.c

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in a student becoming an eligible distance learning student occurs within the
first three months of an academic year,

the student may qualify for disabled distance learning students’ allowance in
respect of such quarters, in respect of which a loan for living costs is
payable, beginning after the event in question occurs;

48.106.4.d

a disabled distance learning students’ allowance is not available in respect
of any academic year beginning before the academic year in which the event in
question occurs.

.

##### 

49

In Regulation 112 (disabled distance learning students’ allowance), in
paragraph (8) for “106(3)” substitute  “106(4)” .

##### 

50

In Regulation 113 (6)(a) (applications for support), for “one of the events
listed in paragraph (4) of regulation 106” substitute  “an event falling
within regulation 106” .

##### 

51

For regulation 123  (students becoming eligible during the course of the
academic year) substitute—

######### Students becoming eligible during the course of the academic year

51.123

51.123.1

Subject to paragraph (1)(d) where—

51.123.1.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year;

51.123.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
part-time student occurs—

51.123.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

51.123.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

51.123.1.c

an in-year qualifying event occurs within the first three months of an
academic year which results in a student becoming an eligible part-time
student,

the student may qualify for a fee grant in accordance with this Part in
respect of that academic year;

51.123.1.d

a fee grant is not available in respect of any academic year beginning before
the academic year in which the event in question occurs.”.

51.123.2

Subject to paragraph (2)(d) where—

51.123.2.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year;

51.123.2.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
part-time student occurs—

51.123.2.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

51.123.2.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

51.123.2.c

an in-year qualifying event occurs within the first three months of an
academic year which results in a student becoming an eligible part-time
student,

the student may qualify for a part-time fee loan in accordance with this Part
in respect of that academic year;

51.123.2.d

a part-time fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year
beginning before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

51.123.3

Subject to paragraph (3)(d) where—

51.123.3.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a designated part-time course occurs in the course of an academic
year; or

51.123.3.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
part-time student occurs—

51.123.3.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

51.123.3.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

51.123.3.c

an in-year qualifying event (other a settled status event) which results in a
student becoming an eligible student occurs within the first three months of
an academic year,

the student may qualify for a grant for books, travel and other expenditure in
respect of such quarters, in respect of which a loan for living costs is
payable, beginning after the event in question occurs;

51.123.3.d

a grant for books, travel and other expenditure is not available in respect of
any academic year beginning before the academic year in which the event in
question occurs.

51.123.4

Subject to paragraph to (4)(d) where—

51.123.4.a

a part-time course designation event which results in a student’s course
becoming a part-time course occurs in the course of an academic year; or

51.123.4.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
part-time student occurs—

51.123.4.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

51.123.4.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

51.123.4.c

an in-year qualifying event (other a settled status event) which results in a
student becoming an eligible student occurs within the first three months of
an academic year,

the student may qualify for disabled part-time students’ allowance in respect
of such quarters, in respect of which a part-time fee loan is payable,
beginning after the event in question occurs.

51.123.4.d

a disabled part-time students’ allowance is not available in respect of any
academic year beginning before the academic year in which the event in
question occurs.

.

##### 

52

In Regulation 130 (disabled part-time students’ allowance), in paragraph (7)
for the wording from “regulation 123” to “(p)” substitute  “123(4)” .

##### 

53

In Regulation 131 (applications for support), in sub-paragraph (6)(a) omit for
“one of the events listed in paragraph (3) of regulation 123” substitute  “an
event falling within regulation 123” .

##### 

54

In regulation 140  (students becoming eligible in the course of an academic
year)—

54.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

54.a.1

Where any of the following events occur in the course of an academic year, a
student may qualify for a grant under this Part in respect of which is payable
as beginning after the event in question occurs—

54.a.1.a

a course designation event which results in the student’s course becoming a
designated course; or

54.a.1.b

an in-year qualifying event (other than a settled status event) which results
in the student becoming an eligible student.

54.a.1A

Where a protected category event which results in a student becoming an
eligible student occurs—

54.a.1A.a

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

54.a.1A.b

on or before the course start date,

the student may qualify for a grant under this Part in respect of all quarters
of that academic year in respect of which a loan for living costs is payable.

.

54.b

omit paragraph (2).

##### 

55

In Regulation 146 (amount of grant), in sub-paragraph (5) omit “(2)”.

##### 

56

For regulation 150  (students becoming eligible during the course of an
academic year) substitute—

######### Students becoming eligible during the course of an academic year

56.150

56.150.1

Subject to paragraph (1)(d) where—

56.150.1.a

a master’s, etc designation event which results in a student’s course becoming
a designated master’s, etc. course occurs in the course of an academic year;

56.150.1.b

a protected category event which results in a student becoming an eligible
master’s, etc. student occurs—

56.150.1.b.i

in the course of the first academic year of a course; and

56.150.1.b.ii

on or before the course start date; or

56.150.1.c

an in-year qualifying event which results in a student becoming an eligible
master’s, etc. student occurs within the first three months of an academic
year,

the student may qualify for a master’s, etc. fee loan in accordance with this
Part in respect of that academic year;

56.150.1.d

a master’s etc. fee loan is not available in respect of any academic year
beginning before the academic year in which the event in question occurs.

.

##### 

57

Omit regulation 151  (events).

##### 

58

In Regulation 159  (time limits) in sub-paragraph (2)(a) for “one of the
events listed in 151” substitute  “an in-year qualifying event” .

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

59

In regulation 5 (prescribed description of a qualifying person)—

59.a

after paragraph (1)  insert —

59.a.1ZA

Subject to paragraphs (1) and (1C), a qualifying person is a person who—

59.a.1ZA.a

falls within a settled category or a protected category—

59.a.1ZA.a.i

on the course start date, where the relevant academic year is the first
academic

year of the person’s course, or

59.a.1ZA.a.ii

otherwise, on the first day of a relevant academic year;

59.a.1ZA.b

falls within a prescribed category on the first day of a relevant academic
year.

59.a.1ZB

Paragraph (1ZA) includes a person who undertakes a qualifying course in an
academic year which began before 1st September 2024 but who nevertheless falls
within a settled category, a protected category or a prescribed category on
the first day of an academic year commencing on or after that date.

59.b

in paragraph (1A)(a), omit—

59.b.i

“2A,”;

59.b.ii

“4, 4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G, 4H, 4I, 5,”;

59.b.iii

“8A,”.

59.c

in paragraph (6) for “Where” substitute  “Subject to paragraphs 8 to 10 where”

59.d

after paragraph (7) insert—

59.d.8

Where a protected category event occurs in relation to a person after the
course start date, paragraph (9) applies for the purposes of determining
whether the person falls within a   protected   category on the first day of
the relevant academic year.

59.d.9

The person is, for the purposes of determining whether they satisfy any
requirement in  ... the Schedule that they are ordinarily resident in the
United Kingdom on the course start date, to be treated as if the person was,
on the course start date, lawfully residing in the place where the person was
residing on that date.

59.d.10

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ protected category ” means any category of persons described in paragraph 4,
4A, 4B, 4C, 4D, 4E, 4F, 4G, 4H,4I or 5 of  ... the Schedule;

“ protected category event ” means —

59.d.10.a

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent is recognised as
a refugee

or becomes a person granted humanitarian protection or becomes a person
granted

stateless leave or becomes a person with leave to enter or remain on the
grounds of

discretionary leave;

59.d.10.b

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

59.d.10.c

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

59.d.10.d

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner;

59.d.10.e

the student becomes a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse;

59.d.10.f

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes; or

59.d.10.g

the student or the student’s spouse, civil partner or parent becomes a person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

“ relevant academic year ” means an academic year beginning on or after 1st
September 2024;

“ settled category ” means any category of persons described in paragraph   2A
or 8A of the Schedule.

.

#### Amendments to Family Members of Settled Persons

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

60

In Part 2 of Schedule 2 (eligible students) (as amended by regulations 29 and
32 of these regulations)—

60.a

in paragraph 1(1) of the interpretation at sub-paragraph (e) of the definition
of “family member”  for “paragraphs 9, 9B, 9C and 9D” substitute  “paragraphs
9, 9B, 9D or for the purposes of paragraph 9C in relation to a person settled
in the United Kingdom” ;

60.b

in paragraph 9C(1)(a) , for “a United Kingdom national” substitute “settled in
the United Kingdom” .

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

61

In the Schedule (qualifying persons) (as amended by regulations 21, 30, and 34
of these regulations)—

61.a

in paragraph 1(1) of the interpretation at sub-paragraph (e) of the definition
of “family member”  for “paragraphs 9, 9ZB, 9ZC and 9ZD” substitute
“paragraphs 9, 9ZB, 9ZD or for the purposes of paragraph 9ZC in relation to a
person settled in the United Kingdom” ;

61.b

in paragraph 9ZC(1)(a)  for “a United Kingdom national” substitute  “settled
in the United Kingdom” .

#### Amendments to Relevant Institutions

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

62

In regulation 2 (interpretation) ( as amended by regulations 10, 19 ,22, 31
and 35 of these regulations) in the definition of “relevant institution of
higher education in the Republic of Ireland” for “an institution listed in
Schedule 6” substitute  “a publicly funded prescribed approved institution for
the purposes of section 7 of the Student Support Act 2011 ” ;

##### 

63

Omit Schedule 6  to the 2009 Regulations (Relevant Institutions of Higher
Education in the Republic of Ireland).

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

64

In regulation 5(7) (prescribed description of a qualifying person) (as amended
by regulation 59 of these regulations) for “means an institution listed in
Schedule 6 to the Student Support Regulations” substitute  “has the same
meaning as in the Student Support Regulations” .

#### Miscellaneous

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

65

In Regulation 5(3)(h)  (eligible students) (as amended by regulations 11 and
24 of these Regulations) for “another member state” substitute  “a member
state” .

##### 

66

In Regulation 39 (General qualifying conditions for grants for living and
other costs) for paragraph (2)  substitute—

66.2

An eligible student does not qualify for a bursary or grant under this Part if
the only paragraph or paragraphs in Part 2 of Schedule 2 into which the
student falls is one or more of paragraphs 2A, 9, 9A, 9C or 9D.

##### 

67

In Regulation 40(1) (Students who are treated as in attendance)—

67.a

in sub-paragraph (c) for “;” substitute  “.” ;

67.b

omit sub-paragraph (d).

##### 

68

In Regulation 57 (as amended by regulations 12 and 45 in these regulations)
after the repealed paragraph (6) insert—

68.7

A current system student does not qualify for a maintenance grant if the
current course is the graduate entry course.

##### 

69

In Regulation 149(8)  (Eligible Master’s, etc. Students) for “and (12)”
substitute  “, (11E), (11F), (12), (12A) and (12C)” .

##### 

70

In paragraph 4A to Schedule 2 add the heading —

Persons granted section 67 leave

##### Amendments to the 2007 Regulations

71

In regulation 2 in the definition of “Student Support Regulations” for “the
Education (Student Support) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2007” substitute
“The Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009”
.

#### Amendments to Loan Amounts

##### Amendments to the 2009 Regulations

72

The Schedule to these Regulations has effect to substitute the figure in the
third column of the table for the figure in the second column where that
figure appears in the provision of the Education (Student Support) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 set out in the first column.

#### Savings

##### Savings: the 2009 Regulations

73

In this Chapter “ earlier academic year ” means an academic year beginning
before 1 st  August 2024.

##### 

74

This regulation applies where an existing SSR Afghan scheme student (“ S ”)
applies for support under the 2009 Regulations in respect of a new academic
year of a relevant course (the “current course”).

##### 

75

For the purposes of determining whether S’s status as a relevant student
terminates before the first day of the academic year of the current course in
respect of which S is applying for support (see regulation 5, 105, 122 ,139
and 149 of the 2009 Regulations (as the case may be)), the 2009 Regulations
apply as if the amendments made by regulations 22 , 23(a), 24(a), 25(a),
26(a), 27(a), 28(a) and 29(a)of these Regulations had not been made.

##### 

76

In this regulation—

designated course”, “designated part-time course”, “designated postgraduate
course”, eligible student”, “eligible part-time student” and “eligible
postgraduate student” have the meanings given in the 2009 Regulations; “
existing 2009 Regulations Afghan scheme student ” means a student who the
Secretary of State determined, by virtue of the student falling within
paragraph (a)(ii) of the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Citizens Resettlement Scheme” in regulation 2(1) of the 2009 Regulations, or
paragraph (a)(iv) of the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan
Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme” in that regulation, to be a relevant
student— in connection with an application for support for an earlier academic
year of the current course, or in connection with an application for support
for a relevant course from which the student’s status as an eligible student,
eligible distance learning student, eligible part-time student, eligible
postgraduate student or eligible Master’s etc. student has been transferred to
the current course; “ relevant course ” means a designated course, designated
distance learning course, designated part-time course, designated postgraduate
course or designated Master’s etc. course; “ relevant student ” means an
eligible student, eligible distance learning student, eligible part-time
student, eligible postgraduate student or eligible Master’s Etc. student; “the
2009 Regulations means the Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2009.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 2nd
February 2024.         Mr Mark Lee   A senior officer of the Department for
the Economy

Regulation 72

  NEW PAYMENT RATES FOR FEE LOANS, GRANTS FOR FEES AND FEE CONTRIBUTION LOANS
Provision in the Education (Student Support) (No. 2) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2009 Existing figure New figure   Regulation 25 25(2A)(a) £4,710
£4,750 25(2B)(a) £2,340 £2,360 25(14)(b)(i) £4,710 £4,750 Regulation 110A
110A(1)(a) £3,532.50 £3,562.50 Regulation 117 117(4)(d)(i) £3,532.50 £3,562.50
Regulation 127A 127A(1)(a) £3,532.50 £3,562.50 Regulation 135 135(4A)(d)(i)
£3,532.50 £3,562.50 135(10B)(a)(i) £3,532.50 £3,562.50 135(19)(a)(i) £3,532.50
£3,562.50

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend legislation which makes provision about, or in
connection with, student finance. Three sets of Student Support Regulations
are amended. Those Regulations are the Education (Student Support) (No. 2)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 “the 2009 Regulations”, the Student Fees
(Amounts) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 (“ the 2005 Regulations ”) and
the Student Fees (Qualifying Courses and Persons) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2007 “the 2007 Regulations”.

  These Regulations come into operation on 26th February 2024. But, subject to
the savings in Chapter 14, some of the amendments made by these Regulations
apply only in relation to a course which begins on or after 1st August 2024 (a
“new course”), an academic year beginning on or after 1st August 2024 (a “new
academic year”) or a new academic year of a course which begins on or after
1st August 2023 and before 1st August 2024 (an “existing course”). In
particular:     a     the amendments made by the provisions specified in
regulation 1(3) apply in relation to new academic years only;         b
the amendments made by the provisions specified in regulation 1(5) apply in
relation to new courses and new academic years of existing courses;         c
the amendments made by provisions specified in regulation 1(6) apply in
relation to new courses only.

  Chapter 1 of these regulations amend the 2005 Regulations by increasing the
basic and higher amounts prescribed in the 2005 Regulations. In each case the
increases are by 0.9%, and will come into operation on 1st September 2024.

  The 2005 Regulations prescribe the basic and higher amounts which higher
education institutions in Northern Ireland may charge by way of tuition fees.
Regulation 3 of the 2005 Regulations sets out the basic and higher amounts
which ordinarily apply. Regulation 4 of the 2005 Regulations sets out the
lower basic and higher amounts which apply in respect of an academic year of
specified courses.

  Chapter 2 of these regulations removes the tapering of DSA support on course
conversion following the alignment of maximum Disabled Students’ Allowance
(DSA) support levels.

  Chapter 3 of these regulations amends the 2009 regulations to allow for
support for designated Master’s etc. courses in the Republic of Ireland.

  Chapter 4 of these regulations removes redundant references to ‘qualifying
course’ and ‘qualifying students’.

  Chapter 5 of these regulations ensures that courses are substantially
provided in the UK or where appropriate the UK or the Republic of Ireland.

  Chapter 6 of these regulations updates references to immigrations rules in
both the 2009 and 2007 Regulations.

  Chapter 7 of these regulations amends both the 2009 and the 2007 Regulations
to update the categories of students who may be eligible for support to
include certain family members of persons who are granted leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom under an Afghan or Ukraine related immigration
scheme.

  Chapter 8 of these regulations amends both the 2009 and the 2007 Regulations
to change the eligibility requirements for students who are in certain
protection based categories (such as refugees and their family members,
persons granted stateless leave and persons with Calais leave), so that they
may qualify for support if they are ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland on
the day on which the first term of the first academic year of their course
actually begins.

  Chapter 9 of these regulations amends both the 2009 and the 2007 Regulations
update the rules determining the amount of support that a student is entitled
to if they become eligible for support during the course of an academic year.

  Chapter 10 of these regulations amends both the 2009 and the 2007
Regulations so that family members of all settled persons in the UK who are
starting courses in 2024/25 qualify for support. This category of person must
be ordinarily resident in the UK and Islands for three years before the start
of their course in order to qualify for support. Previously, only family
members of United Kingdom nationals qualified for support under this category.

  Chapter 11 of these regulations amends the definition of a relevant
institution of higher education in the Republic of Ireland to clarify that it
is a publicly funded prescribed approved institution for the purposes of
section 7 of the Student Support Act 2011.

  Chapter 12 makes minor technical amendments to the 2009 and 2007
Regulations.

  Chapter 13 and the Schedule of these regulations makes amendments to the
2009 Regulations to update the payment rates for student support for an
academic year which begins on or after 1st August 2024 (regulation 72 and the
Schedule).

  Chapter 14 of these regulations includes savings provisions so that family
members of persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes who have
already qualified for support under the 2009 and 2007, can continue to qualify
for support on that basis.

  An regulatory impact assessment has not been produced for this rule as no,
or no significant impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

