Title: The Human Medicines (Amendments Relating to Coronavirus and Influenza) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024
Date: 2024-04-03
Description: These Regulations amend the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 (“the 2012 Regulations”) which govern the arrangements across the United Kingdom for the licensing, manufacture, wholesale dealing and sale or supply of medicines for human use. These Regulations extend to Northern Ireland only.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2024/68

## The Human Medicines (Amendments Relating to Coronavirus and Influenza) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024

    Medicines

Laid before Assembly in draft

  Made   20th March 2024

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

      The Department of Health, makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 2(1), 3(1)(a) to (d), (h), (j) and (n) and
(2)(a) and (c), 6(1)(b) and 43(2) of the Medicines and Medical Devices Act
2021 .       The Department of Health has carried out a public consultation in
accordance with section 45(1) of that Act.       In accordance with section
2(2) to (4) of that Act, the Department of Health’s overarching objective in
making these Regulations is safeguarding public health, the Department of
Health has had regard to the matters specified in section 2(3) of that Act and
considers that, where these Regulations may have an impact on the safety of
human medicines, the benefits of making these Regulations outweigh the risks.
In accordance with section 47(2), (3) and (6)(b) of that Act, a draft of these
Regulations has been laid before, and approved by resolution of the Assembly.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Human Medicines (Amendments Relating to
Coronavirus and Influenza) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2024.

1.2

These Regulations shall come into operation on 31st March 2024.

1.3

These Regulations extend to Northern Ireland.

### Amendment of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012

2

The Human Medicines Regulations 2012  are amended in accordance with
Regulations 3 to 5.

### Amendment of regulation 3A

3

In regulation 3A (preparation and assembly of medicinal products used for
vaccination or immunisation against coronavirus or in the reformulation of
such products), in paragraph (6), for “2024” substitute  “2026” .

### Amendment of regulation 19

4

In regulation 19 (exemptions from requirement for wholesale dealer’s licence),
in paragraph (4D), for “2024” substitute  “2026” .

### Amendment of regulation 247A

5

5.1

Regulation 247A (protocols relating to coronavirus and influenza vaccinations
and immunisations) is amended as follows.

5.2

Omit paragraph (2).

5.3

Omit paragraph (6).

5.4

At the end, insert—

5.4.7

This regulation ceases to have effect on 1st April 2026.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Health on 20th March
2024.       (L.S.)   Cathy Harrison   A senior officer of the Department of
Health

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 (“ the 2012
Regulations ”) which govern the arrangements across the United Kingdom for the
licensing, manufacture, wholesale dealing and sale or supply of medicines for
human use. These Regulations extend to Northern Ireland only.

  Regulation 3 amends regulation 3A of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012,
and regulation 4 amends regulation 19. These provisions currently cease to
have effect on 1st April 2024, and this is extended to 1st April 2026.
Regulation 3A of the 2012 Regulations ensures that all professionally
justified acts of preparation and assembly of a coronavirus vaccine may be
undertaken by or under the supervision of a doctor, nurse or pharmacist, at
any location, without precipitating the need for a manufacturer’s licence or
marketing authorisation — provided those acts are done under NHS arrangements
or arrangements as part of the medical services of His Majesty’s Forces. It
also allows for authorised medicinal products used for the reformulation of
coronavirus vaccines (for example, diluents) to be re-assembled at the end of
the medicines supply chain without the resultant products needing a marketing
authorisation in order to be supplied. Regulation 19 provides for certain
exemptions from the requirement to hold a wholesale dealer’s licence, and
paragraphs (4A) to (4C) of that regulation permit sharing of stocks of
coronavirus and influenza vaccinations between vaccination centres without the
need for such a licence.

  Regulation 247A exempts from the requirements relating to the supply of
medicines under regulations 214, 220 and 221, the supply or administration of
a medicinal product used for vaccination or immunisation against coronavirus
or influenza virus (of any type), which is made under a national protocol
relating to such supply. This regulation removes the requirement, in respect
of Northern Ireland, that the supply or administration shall be made whilst a
disease is, or is in anticipation of being imminently, a pandemic and a
serious risk or potentially serious risk to human health. Regulation 247A will
cease to have effect in Northern Ireland on 1st April 2026.

