Title: Trade (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) Act 2024
Date: 2024-05-29
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/6

## Trade (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership) Act 2024

B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Meaning of “the CPTPP”

1

In this Act—

“ the CPTPP ” means the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-
Pacific Partnership, signed at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the UK
Accession Protocol, as it has effect in the United Kingdom from time to time;
“ the UK Accession Protocol ” means the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

### Treatment of conformity assessment bodies etc

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
subordinate legislation in order to implement Article 8.6 of the CPTPP (no
less favourable treatment of conformity assessment bodies located in
territories of other CPTPP parties etc).

2.2

Regulations under  this section  may include consequential, supplementary,
incidental, transitional or saving provision.

2.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  this section  is subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

2.4

In this section—

“ Article 8.6 of the CPTPP ” means Article 8.6 of the Trans-Pacific
Partnership Agreement, signed at Auckland on 4 February 2016, as incorporated,
by reference, into and made part of the CPTPP by Article 1 of the CPTPP; “
subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Interpretation Act
1978.

### Procurement

3

3.1

The Procurement Act 2023 is amended as set out in subsections (2) and (3).

3.2

In Schedule 2 (exempted contracts), for paragraph 24 substitute—

3.2.24

A contract that is—

3.2.24.a

wholly or mainly funded by an international organisation of which the United
Kingdom is a member, and

3.2.24.b

awarded under a procedure that is—

3.2.24.b.i

adopted by that organisation, and

3.2.24.b.ii

inconsistent in any material respect with the procedure for the award of the
contract in accordance with this Act.

But this paragraph does not apply to a defence and security contract (as to
which, see paragraph 29).

3.3

In Schedule 9 (treaty state suppliers (specified international agreements)),
at the end insert—

3.3.25

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

3.4

In the Schedule—

3.4.a

Part 1 makes amendments to procurement regulations for England and Wales and
Northern Ireland (which are revoked by the Procurement Act 2023, subject to
savings made by regulations under that Act);

3.4.b

Part 2 makes amendments to procurement regulations for Scotland;

3.4.c

Part 3 makes transitional provision in relation to the amendments made by
Parts 1 and 2.

### Designations of origin and geographical indications

4

4.1

Regulation 1151/2012  is amended as set out in subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

4.2

In Article 3 (definitions), in point (13a), at the end insert

", and a trade mark has been ‘applied for’, or an application for registration
of a trade mark is ‘pending’, where an application to register a trade mark
has been submitted and:

4.2.a

the trade mark has not been registered,

4.2.b

the application has not been withdrawn or abandoned, and

4.2.c

in a case where the application for registration has been refused—

4.2.c.i

an appeal has been brought but has not been finally determined, withdrawn or
abandoned, or

4.2.c.ii

the period for bringing an appeal is still running (disregarding the
possibility of an appeal out of time);

".

4.3

In Article 6, in paragraph 4 (designations of origin and geographical
indications: conflict with trade marks), for the words from

“, in” to the end substitute  “the name proposed is likely to cause confusion
with a trade mark that is, on the date on which the application for protection
of the designation of origin or geographical indication is submitted to the
Secretary of State:

4.3.a

the subject of a good faith pending application for registration,

4.3.b

the subject of a good faith registration, or

4.3.c

established by use,

within the territory of the United Kingdom."

4.4

In Article 54 (cancellation), after paragraph (1) insert—

4.4.1A

The Secretary of State may, on the Secretary of State’s own initiative or at
the request of any natural or legal person having a legitimate interest,
decide to cancel the registration of a protected designation of origin or a
protected geographical indication on the grounds that, on the date on which
the application for registration was submitted to the Secretary of State under
Article 49, either of the following provisions applied in relation to the name
proposed:

4.4.1A.a

paragraph 1 of Article 6 (no registration of generic terms), or

4.4.1A.b

paragraph 4 of Article 6 (conflict with trade mark).

4.4.1B

In a case where the protected designation of origin or protected geographical
indication has been the subject of an application for approval of an amendment
to the product specification under Article 53 which resulted in a change to
the protected name, the reference in paragraph 1A to the application for
registration under Article 49 is to be read as a reference to the application
for approval of the amendment to the name under Article 49 as applied by
Article 53(2) (or, in a case where there has been more than one such
application, the latest of those).

4.5

In  Regulation 664/2014 , in Article 7(1) (cancellation), for the words from
“as” to “54(1)”, substitute  “under Article 54(1) or (1A)” .

4.6

Regulation 668/2014  is amended as set out in subsections  (7)  to  (9) .

4.7

In Article 11(1) (cancellation), after “54(1)” insert  “or (1A)” .

4.8

In Annex 3 (reasoned statement of opposition), in section 4 (reason for the
opposition), omit “existing”.

4.9

In Annex 9 (cancellation request)—

4.9.a

in the words before section 1, after “54(1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

4.9.b

in section 4, after “54(1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

4.9.c

in section 5, at the end insert—

☐ In accordance with Article 54(1A) of  Regulation (EU) No  1151/2012 ☐ point
(a) [Provide the detailed reasons and, where appropriate, evidence for the
cancellation of the registration of the name in accordance with point (a) of
Article 54(1A).] ☐ point (b) [Provide the detailed reasons and, where
appropriate, evidence for the cancellation of the registration of the name in
accordance with point (b) of Article 54(1A).]

4.10

The amendments made by subsections  (3)  and  (8)  apply only in relation to—

4.10.a

an application for the protection of a DO or GI that is submitted on or after
the day on which those amendments come into force (and for date of submission
of such an application, see Article 6(3) of  Regulation 668/2014 ), or

4.10.b

a name-change application relating to the protected DO or GI that is submitted
on or after that day (and for date of submission of such an application, see
Article 10(4) of  Regulation 668/2014 ).

4.11

As regards the amendments made by subsections  (4) ,  (5) ,  (7)  and  (9) —

4.11.a

the Secretary of State may decide to cancel the registration of a protected DO
or a protected GI under Article 54(1A)(a) (cancellation on ground that generic
name should not have been registered) whether the application for protection
of the DO or GI was submitted before or after those amendments came into
force;

4.11.b

the Secretary of State may decide to cancel the registration of a protected DO
or a protected GI under Article 54(1A)(b) (cancellation on ground of conflict
with trade mark) only in a case where—

4.11.b.i

the application for protection of the DO or GI was submitted on or after the
day on which those amendments came into force (and for date of submission of
such an application, see Article 6(3) of  Regulation 668/2014 ), or

4.11.b.ii

a name-change application relating to the protected DO or GI was submitted on
or after that day (and for date of submission of such an application, see
Article 10(4) of  Regulation 668/2014 ).

4.12

In this section—

“ DO ” means a designation of origin for the purposes of  Regulation 1151/2012
(see Article 5(1) of that Regulation); “ GI ” means a geographical indication
for the purposes of  Regulation 1151/2012  (see Article 5(2) of that
Regulation); “ name-change application ” means an application for approval of
an amendment to a product specification under Article 53 of  Regulation
1151/2012  which involves a change to the protected name; “ Regulation
1151/2012 ” means  Regulation (EU) No  1151/2012  of the European Parliament
and of the Council of 21 November 2012 on quality schemes for agricultural
products and foodstuffs; “ Regulation 664/2014 ” means Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) No  664/2014  of 18 December 2013 supplementing  Regulation
(EU) No  1151/2012  of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard
to the establishment of the Union symbols for protected designations of
origin, protected geographical indications and traditional specialities
guaranteed and with regard to certain rules on sourcing, certain procedural
rules and certain additional transitional rules; “ Regulation 668/2014 ” means
Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No  668/2014  of 13 June 2014 laying
down rules for the application of  Regulation (EU) No  1151/2012  of the
European Parliament and of the Council on quality schemes for agricultural
products and foodstuffs.

### Performers’ rights

5

5.1

Part 2 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (rights in performances)
is amended as set out in subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

5.2

For section 181 (qualifying performances) substitute—

######### Qualifying performances

5.2.181

5.2.181.1

A performance is a qualifying performance for the purposes of this Part if it
meets any of Conditions A to D.

5.2.181.2

Condition A is that the performance is given by a qualifying individual.

5.2.181.3

Condition B is that the performance takes place in a qualifying country.

5.2.181.4

Condition C is that the performance is included in a sound recording and—

5.2.181.4.a

the producer of that sound recording is a qualifying individual or a body
incorporated under the law of a qualifying country, or

5.2.181.4.b

that sound recording is—

5.2.181.4.b.i

first published in a qualifying country, or

5.2.181.4.b.ii

published in a qualifying country within the period of 30 days beginning with
the day on which it is first published.

5.2.181.5

But Condition C is not met if, or to the extent that, the sound recording in
question is a copy taken from a previous sound recording.

5.2.181.6

Condition D is that—

5.2.181.6.a

the performance has not been included in a sound recording,

5.2.181.6.b

the performance is broadcast, and

5.2.181.6.c

the broadcast is—

5.2.181.6.c.i

made from a qualifying country, or

5.2.181.6.c.ii

made by a broadcasting organisation the headquarters of which are situated in
a qualifying country.

5.2.181.7

In subsection  (4) (a) , the “ producer ” of a sound recording means the
person who undertakes the arrangements necessary for the making of the sound
recording.

5.3

In section 206 (qualifying countries, individuals and persons), in subsection
(4), before paragraph (a) insert—

5.3.za

make provision for the application of this Part to a country by virtue of
paragraph (a) or (ba) of the definition of “qualifying country” in subsection
(1) to be subject to specified restrictions, but those restrictions may only
relate to rights which would otherwise apply as a result of—

5.3.za.i

a performance being a qualifying performance because it meets Condition C or
Condition D in section 181, and

5.3.za.ii

that condition being met by way of a connection to such a country;

.

5.4

The amendment made by subsection  (2)  has effect in relation to performances
taking place before, on or after the commencement date.

5.5

But an act done—

5.5.a

before the commencement date, or

5.5.b

on or after that date, but in pursuance of arrangements made before that date,

is not to be regarded as infringing or affecting any new performers’ right,
except as provided in subsection  (6) .

5.6

Subsection  (5) (b)  does not apply where—

5.6.a

the arrangements in question are an agreement that purports to exclude or
restrict the right or to prevent a person from questioning such a right or to
restrict the powers of the Copyright Tribunal in relation to such a right, and

5.6.b

as a result of the application of Part 2 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents
Act 1988 in relation to the agreement, the exclusion, restriction or
prevention is of no effect.

5.7

The amendment made by subsection  (3)  has the effect of enabling an Order in
Council under section 206(4)(za) of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act
1988 to make provision that has effect in relation to performances taking
place before, on or after—

5.7.a

the date on which the Order comes into force, or

5.7.b

the commencement date.

5.8

In this section—

“ commencement date ” means the date on which subsection (2) comes into force;
“ new performers’ right ” means a right under Part 2 of the Copyright, Designs
and Patents Act 1988 arising as a result of the amendment made by subsection
(2).

### Extent

6

6.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
as follows.

6.2

Section  3 (4) (a)  and  Part 1  of  the Schedule  (amendments to procurement
regulations for England and Wales and Northern Ireland) extend to England and
Wales and Northern Ireland only.

6.3

Section  3 (4) (b)  and  Part 2  of  the Schedule  (amendments to procurement
regulations for Scotland) extend to Scotland only.

### Commencement

7

7.1

This Act comes into force on the day on which the CPTPP enters into force for
the United Kingdom (on which, see Article 21 of the UK Accession Protocol),
subject as follows.

7.2

The following sections come into force on the day on which this Act is passed—

7.2.a

section  1  (meaning of “ the CPTPP ”);

7.2.b

section  2  (treatment of conformity assessment bodies etc);

7.2.c

section  5 (3)  and  (7)  (amendment of section 206(4) of the Copyright,
Designs and Patents Act 1988), and section  5 (1)  so far as it relates to
section  5 (3) ;

7.2.d

section  6  (extent);

7.2.e

this section;

7.2.f

section  8  (short title).

7.3

Section  3 (2)  (and section  3 (1)  so far as it relates to that provision)
comes into force at the same time as Schedule 2 to the Procurement Act 2023
comes into force.

7.4

Section  3 (3)  (and section  3 (1)  so far as it relates to that provision)
comes into force at the same time as Schedule 9 to the Procurement Act 2023
comes into force.

### Short title

8

This Act may be cited as the Trade (Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement
for Trans-Pacific Partnership) Act 2024.

Amendments to procurement regulations

Section 3(4)

##### Amendments to procurement regulations for England and Wales and Northern Ireland

###### The Public Contracts Regulations 2015

1

The Public Contracts Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/102 ) are amended as
follows.

2

2.1

Regulation 9 (public contracts awarded, and design contests organised,
pursuant to international rules) is amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph (1)—

2.2.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), omit “any of the following”;

2.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

2.3

For paragraph (2) substitute—

2.3.2

This Part does not apply to a relevant international public contract or design
contest in a case where the applicable procurement rules restrict the
participation of economic operators in the procedure.

2.3.2A

In the case of a relevant international public contract or design contest
where the applicable procurement rules do not restrict the participation of
economic operators in the procedure, the only provision of this Part that
applies is regulation 25B (equal treatment of economic operators).

2.4

Omit paragraph (3).

2.5

In paragraph (4), omit “paragraphs (1) to (3) of”.

2.6

At the end insert—

2.6.5

In this regulation, “ relevant international public contract or design contest
” means a public contract or design contest that—

2.6.5.a

the contracting authority awards or organises in accordance with procurement
rules provided by an international organisation or international financing
institution, and

2.6.5.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

3

In regulation 50 (contract award notices), in paragraph (2)(a), after
paragraph (ii) insert—

3.iia

in paragraph 13, the words “or the highest tender and lowest tender taken into
consideration” were omitted;

.

4

In Schedule 4A (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

###### The Concession Contracts Regulations 2016

5

The Concession Contracts Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/273 ) are amended as
follows.

6

6.1

Regulation 10 (general exclusions) is amended as follows.

6.2

In paragraph (5)—

6.2.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), omit “any of the following”;

6.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

6.3

For paragraph (6) substitute—

6.3.6

These Regulations do not apply to a relevant international concession contract
in a case where the applicable procurement rules restrict the participation of
economic operators in the procedure.

6.3.6A

In the case of a relevant international concession contract where the
applicable procurement rules do not restrict the participation of economic
operators in the procedure, the only regulation that applies is regulation 8
(equal treatment of economic operators).

6.4

Omit paragraph (7).

6.5

In paragraph (8), for “(7)” substitute  “(6A)” .

6.6

After paragraph (8) insert—

6.6.8A

In this regulation, “ relevant international concession contract ” means a
concession contract that—

6.6.8A.a

the contracting authority or utility awards in accordance with procurement
rules provided by an international organisation or international financing
institution, and

6.6.8A.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

7

In Schedule 4 (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

###### The Utilities Contracts Regulations 2016

8

The Utilities Contracts Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/274 ) are amended as
follows.

9

9.1

Regulation 20 (contracts awarded and design contests organised pursuant to
international rules) is amended as follows.

9.2

In paragraph (1)—

9.2.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), omit “any of the following”;

9.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (b).

9.3

For paragraph (2) substitute—

9.3.2

These Regulations do not apply to a relevant international contract or design
contest in a case where the applicable procurement rules restrict the
participation of economic operators in the procedure.

9.3.2A

In the case of a relevant international contract or design contest where the
applicable procurement rules do not restrict the participation of economic
operators in the procedure, the only regulation that applies is regulation 43B
(equal treatment of economic operators).

9.4

Omit paragraph (3).

9.5

In paragraph (4), omit “paragraphs (1) to (3) of”.

9.6

At the end insert—

9.6.5

In this regulation, “ relevant international contract or design contest ”
means a contract or design contest that—

9.6.5.a

the utility awards or organises in accordance with procurement rules provided
by an international organisation or international financing institution, and

9.6.5.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

10

In regulation 70 (contract award notices), in paragraph (2)(a), after
paragraph (iii) insert—

10.iiia

in paragraph 12, for the words from “or the prices” to the end there were
substituted  “for the contract awarded” ;

.

11

In Schedule 3 (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

##### Amendments to procurement regulations for Scotland

###### The Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2015

12

The Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2015 ( S.S.I. 2015/446 ) are
amended as follows.

13

13.1

Regulation 10 (exclusions: public contracts awarded, and design contests
organised, pursuant to international rules) is amended as follows.

13.2

In paragraph (1), omit sub-paragraph (b) (and the “or” preceding it).

13.3

For paragraph (2) substitute—

13.3.2

These Regulations do not apply to procurement for the award of a relevant
international public contract or the organisation of a relevant international
design contest in a case where the applicable procurement rules restrict the
participation of economic operators in the procedure.

13.3.2A

In the case of procurement for the award of a relevant international public
contract or relevant international design contest where the applicable
procurement rules do not restrict the participation of economic operators in
the procedure, the only regulation that applies to the procurement is
regulation 26B (equal treatment of economic operators).

13.4

At the end insert—

13.4.4

In this regulation, “relevant international public contract” and “relevant
international design contest” mean a public contract or design contest that—

13.4.4.a

the contracting authority awards or organises in accordance with procurement
rules provided by an international organisation or international financing
institution, and

13.4.4.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

14

In regulation 51 (contract award notices), in paragraph (2)(a), after
paragraph (ii) insert—

14.iia

in paragraph 13, the words “or the highest tender and lowest tender taken into
consideration” were omitted,

.

15

In Schedule 4A (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

###### The Utilities Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016

16

The Utilities Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 2016/49 ) are
amended as follows.

17

17.1

Regulation 19 (exclusion: contracts awarded and design contests organised
pursuant to international rules) is amended as follows.

17.2

In paragraph (1), omit sub-paragraph (b) (and the “or” preceding it).

17.3

For paragraph (2) substitute—

17.3.2

These Regulations do not apply to procurement for the award of a relevant
international contract or the organisation of a relevant international design
contest in a case where the applicable procurement rules restrict the
participation of economic operators in the procedure.

17.3.2A

In the case of procurement for the award of a relevant international public
contract or relevant international design contest where the applicable
procurement rules do not restrict the participation of economic operators in
the procedure, the only regulation that applies to the procurement is
regulation 41B (equal treatment of economic operators).

17.4

At the end insert—

17.4.4

In this regulation, “relevant international contract” and “relevant
international design contest” mean a contract or design contest that—

17.4.4.a

the utility undertakes or organises in accordance with procurement rules
provided by an international organisation or international financing
institution, and

17.4.4.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

18

In regulation 68 (contract award notices), in paragraph (2)(a), after
paragraph (iii) insert—

18.iiia

in paragraph 12, for the words from “or the prices” to the end there were
substituted  “for the contract awarded” ,

.

19

In Schedule 2A (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

###### The Concession Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016

20

The Concession Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 2016/65 ) are
amended as follows.

21

21.1

Regulation 10 (exclusions: concession contracts awarded pursuant to
international rules) is amended as follows.

21.2

In paragraph (1), omit sub-paragraph (b) (and the “or” preceding it).

21.3

For paragraph (2) substitute—

21.3.2

These Regulations do not apply to procurement for the award of a relevant
international concession contract in a case where the applicable procurement
rules restrict the participation of economic operators in the procedure.

21.3.2A

In the case of procurement for the award of a relevant international
concession contract where the applicable procurement rules do not restrict the
participation of economic operators in the procedure, the only regulation that
applies to the procurement is regulation 28 (equal treatment of economic
operators).

21.4

At the end insert—

21.4.4

In this regulation, “ relevant international concession contract ” means a
concession contract that—

21.4.4.a

the contracting entity undertakes or organises in accordance with procurement
rules provided by an international organisation or international financing
institution, and

21.4.4.b

is fully financed, or co-financed for the most part, by that organisation or
institution.

22

In Schedule 5 (international trade agreements), at the end insert—

Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed
at Santiago on 8 March 2018, including the Protocol on the Accession of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership, signed at Auckland and
Bandar Seri Begawan on 16 July 2023.

##### Transitional provision

23

The amendments made by this Schedule do not apply to a procurement commenced
before the day on which this Schedule comes into force (the “Schedule
commencement date”).

24

24.1

For the purposes of  paragraph 23 , a procurement is commenced before the
Schedule commencement date if any of sub-paragraphs (2) to (4) apply in
relation to the procurement.

24.2

This sub-paragraph applies if, before the Schedule commencement date, a notice
has been sent to the UK e-notification service in order to—

24.2.a

invite offers or requests to be selected to tender for or negotiate in respect
of a proposed contract, framework agreement or dynamic purchasing system, or

24.2.b

publicise an intention to hold a design contest.

24.3

This sub-paragraph applies if, before the Schedule commencement date, the
contracting authority or utility has had published any form of advertisement
seeking offers or expressions of interest in respect of a proposed contract,
framework agreement or dynamic purchasing system.

24.4

This sub-paragraph applies if, before the Schedule commencement date, the
contracting authority or utility has contacted any economic operator in order
to—

24.4.a

seek expressions of interest or offers in respect of a proposed contract,
framework agreement or dynamic purchasing system, or

24.4.b

respond to an unsolicited expression of interest or offer received from that
economic operator in respect of a proposed contract, framework agreement or
dynamic purchasing system.

25

Procedures taken for the purposes of modifying a contract or framework
agreement are not to be treated as affecting the date on which the procurement
for the award of that contract or agreement commenced.

26

In this Part of this Schedule—

26.a

the following terms have the same meaning as in the applicable Procurement
Regulations—

26.a.i

contracting authority;

26.a.ii

design contest;

26.a.iii

dynamic purchasing system;

26.a.iv

economic operator;

26.a.v

framework agreement;

26.a.vi

procurement;

26.a.vii

UK e-notification service;

26.a.viii

utility, and

26.b

“ the applicable Procurement Regulations ” means whichever of the following
applies to the procurement in question—

26.b.i

the Public Contracts Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/102 );

26.b.ii

the Concession Contracts Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/273 );

26.b.iii

the Utilities Contracts Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/274 );

26.b.iv

the Public Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2015 ( S.S.I. 2015/446 );

26.b.v

the Utilities Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 2016/49 );

26.b.vi

the Concession Contracts (Scotland) Regulations 2016 ( S.S.I. 2016/65 ).

