Title: Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-07-08
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/2

## Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024

### Trusts

#### Appointment, assumption, resignation, removal and discharge of trustees

##### Appointment or assumption

###### Appointment of additional or new trustee by court: general

1

1.1

The court may, as regards any trust—

1.1.a

on the application of one or more of the trustees or of any person with an
interest in the trust property, appoint an additional trustee if the court
considers it necessary to do so for the administration of the trust, or

1.1.b

if no capable trustee exists or is traceable, appoint a new trustee on the
application of any person with an interest in the trust property.

1.2

The court ceases to have power at common law to appoint a trustee.

1.3

The making of an appointment under  subsection (1) (b)  removes any existing
trustee from the office of trustee.

1.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Appointment of new trustee by truster

2

2.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), if no capable trustee exists or is traceable the truster
may appoint a new trustee.

2.2

The making of an appointment under  subsection (1)  removes any existing
trustee from the office of trustee.

2.3

This section —

2.3.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

2.3.b

does not apply as respects a public trust.

###### Assumption of additional trustee

3

3.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), the trustees may assume an additional trustee.

3.2

Subsection (3)  applies where—

3.2.a

a protector has been appointed in respect of the trust,

3.2.b

there has been conferred on the protector, by virtue of  paragraph (b)  of
section 53 (3) , the power to direct the assumption of an additional trustee,
and

3.2.c

the protector gives such a direction.

3.3

An additional trustee must, without delay, be assumed by the other trustees.

3.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Operation of appointment or assumption as general conveyance of trust property

4

4.1

The appointment under  section 1 (1) (a) , or assumption under  section 3 , of
an additional trustee operates as a general conveyance of the trust property
in favour, jointly, of the additional trustee and the existing trustees.

4.2

The appointment, under  section 1 (1) (b)  or  2 (1) , of a new trustee
operates as a general conveyance of the trust property in favour of the new
trustee.

4.3

The appointment of a trustee, on the application under  section 66  of an ex
officio trustee, operates as a general conveyance of the trust property—

4.3.a

in favour, jointly, of the appointed trustee and the existing trustees (other
than the applicant), or

4.3.b

if there are no existing trustees (other than the applicant), in favour of the
appointed trustee.

4.4

This section  applies—

4.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

4.4.b

only as respects an assumption which takes place, or an appointment which is
made, after the section comes into force.

##### Resignation and removal

###### Resignation of trustee

5

5.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), a trustee has power to resign office.

5.2

But where subsection (3) applies and the trustee has accepted office or, after
intimation of their appointment, has acted in a way which indicates that they
have accepted office, the trustee may do so only after—

5.2.a

an additional trustee is assumed or appointed, or

5.2.b

a judicial factor is appointed to administer the trust.

5.3

This subsection applies where—

5.3.a

the trustee is a sole trustee, or

5.3.b

the trustee is, in the trustee’s opinion, the only remaining trustee who is
both capable and traceable.

5.4

Any resignation given in breach of  subsection (2)  is of no effect.

5.5

Any resignation given under this section—

5.5.a

must be intimated to—

5.5.a.i

all of the other trustees who are traceable, and

5.5.a.ii

any judicial factor appointed to administer the trust, and

5.5.b

is effective from the date on which such intimation is given.

5.6

This section  applies—

5.6.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

5.6.b

only as respects a resignation given after the section comes into force.

###### Resignation of incapable trustee

6

6.1

Where a trustee is incapable, the power in section 5(1) may be exercised by
the trustee’s guardian (“ G ”) on behalf of the trustee (and in such a case,
the resignation will, for the purposes of this Act, be treated as a
resignation by the trustee).

6.2

But where subsection (3) applies, G may do so only after—

6.2.a

an additional trustee is assumed under section 3,

6.2.b

an additional trustee is appointed—

6.2.b.i

under section 1 or 2, or

6.2.b.ii

by G, or

6.2.c

a judicial factor is appointed to administer the trust.

6.3

This subsection applies where—

6.3.a

the incapable trustee is a sole trustee, or

6.3.b

in G’s opinion, no other trustee exists who is both capable and traceable.

6.4

Any resignation given by G on behalf of the incapable trustee in breach of
subsection (2) is of no effect.

6.5

Section 4(2) (general conveyance of trust property) applies to an appointment
of a trustee by G under subsection (2)(b)(ii) as it applies to an appointment
of a trustee under section 1(1)(b) or 2(1).

6.6

Section 5(5) applies to a resignation given by G on behalf of an incapable
trustee in accordance with this section as it applies to a resignation given
by a trustee under section 5.

6.7

This section applies—

6.7.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

6.7.b

only as respects a resignation given after this section comes into force.

###### Removal of trustee by court

7

7.1

Where a trustee—

7.1.a

is unfit to carry out the duties of a trustee,

7.1.b

purports to carry out those duties but does so in a way which is inconsistent
with, or might be inconsistent with, a trustee’s fiduciary duty,

7.1.c

has neglected the trustee’s duties as trustee,

7.1.d

is incapable, or

7.1.e

is untraceable,

the court may, on the application of one or more of the other trustees, of a
beneficiary or of any other person with an interest in the trust property,
remove the trustee from office.

7.2

The court ceases to have power at common law to remove a trustee.

7.3

This section applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Removal of certain trustees by court: unfitness

8

8.1

For the purposes of section 7(1)(a), a trustee to whom subsection (2) applies
is to be regarded as unfit to carry out the duties of a trustee (and so may be
removed from office).

8.2

This subsection applies to any trustee—

8.2.a

who is—

8.2.a.i

an executor nominate of a testator (“ T ”),

8.2.a.ii

a trustee of a trust established by T under a testamentary writing, or

8.2.a.iii

an executor dative appointed in respect of the estate of a deceased person (“
D ”), and

8.2.b

who—

8.2.b.i

is being prosecuted in Scotland for the murder or culpable homicide of T or,
as the case may be, D,

8.2.b.ii

has been convicted, whether before or after the coming into force of this
section, in Scotland of such an offence as regards T or, as the case may be,
D,

8.2.b.iii

is being prosecuted in a jurisdiction outside Scotland for an offence which,
in the opinion of the court, is equivalent to the murder or culpable homicide
of T or, as the case may be, D, or

8.2.b.iv

has been convicted, whether before or after the coming into force of this
section, in a jurisdiction outside Scotland of such an offence as regards T
or, as the case may be, D.

8.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), a trustee is to be regarded as being
prosecuted for an offence if—

8.3.a

a prosecutor has initiated proceedings against the trustee in respect of the
offence, and

8.3.b

those proceedings have not been dismissed or resulted in the conviction or
acquittal of the trustee in respect of the offence.

8.4

This section is without prejudice to any power of the court to find that a
trustee to whom subsection (2)(a) applies (but to whom subsection (2)(b) does
not apply) is unfit to carry out the duties of a trustee as a result of—

8.4.a

having acted (or being suspected of having acted) in a manner that caused or
contributed to the death of T or, as the case may be, D, or

8.4.b

having otherwise been involved (or being suspected of having otherwise been
involved) in the death of T or, as the case may be, D.

###### Removal of trustee by co-trustees

9

9.1

A trustee who is—

9.1.a

incapable,

9.1.b

convicted of an offence involving dishonesty,

9.1.c

sentenced to imprisonment on conviction of an offence, or

9.1.d

imprisoned for contempt of court or for not having paid a fine,

may be removed from office by a majority of the other trustees.

9.2

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, a trustee who
is—

9.2.a

a member of a regulated profession (such as a solicitor, accountant, financial
adviser or teacher), and

9.2.b

appointed or assumed as trustee to provide professional services in relation
to managing the affairs of trusts in the course of business,

may, in the circumstances described in subsection (3), be removed from office
by a majority of the other trustees.

9.3

The circumstances are that the trustee—

9.3.a

is no longer a member of the regulated profession in question, or

9.3.b

is such a member, but is not entitled to practise as such.

9.4

In a case where—

9.4.a

two or more trustees meet the description in subsection (2)(a) and (b), and

9.4.b

the circumstances described in subsection (3) apply to each of them,

neither (or none) of those trustees are, for the purpose of section 14, to be
regarded as able to make a decision in respect of their removal.

9.5

Subsection (6)  applies where—

9.5.a

a protector has been appointed in respect of the trust,

9.5.b

there has been conferred on the protector, by virtue of  paragraph (a)  of
section 53 (3) , the power to direct the removal of a trustee from office, and

9.5.c

the protector gives such a direction.

9.6

The trustee to whom the direction relates must, without delay, be removed from
office by the other trustees.

9.7

A person who is removed from office as trustee under this section is to be
given notice of the decision to remove and the date on which it was made as
soon as reasonably practicable after it is made.

9.8

This section  applies—

9.8.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

9.8.b

paragraphs (b)  to  (d)  of  subsection (1)  are to be disregarded in relation
to, respectively, a conviction obtained, a sentence passed or an imprisonment
effected before the section comes into force.

###### Removal of trustee by beneficiaries

10

10.1

A trustee may, subject to  subsection (2) , be removed from office by the
beneficiaries provided that the removal is agreed to by them all and that at
the time of reaching such agreement—

10.1.a

they are absolutely entitled to the trust property, and

10.1.b

each of them—

10.1.b.i

has attained the age of 18 years, and

10.1.b.ii

is capable.

10.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply while there subsists—

10.2.a

a trust purpose which cannot be secured, or

10.2.b

a right to be indemnified which cannot be preserved,

without the retention of some or all of the trust property.

10.3

A person who is removed from office as trustee under this section is to be
given notice of the decision to remove and the date on which it was made as
soon as reasonably practicable after it is made.

10.4

This section —

10.4.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

10.4.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust.

##### Saving as respects liability of trustees

###### Saving as respects liability of trustees

11

The appointment, or as the case may be the assumption, resignation or removal,
of a trustee under any of  sections 1  to  3 ,  5  to  10  and  66  does not
affect liability incurred by the trustee or by any other trustee prior to the
appointment, assumption, resignation or removal.

##### Discharge

###### Discharge where trustee has resigned, died or been removed from office

12

12.1

Where a trustee—

12.1.a

resigns, the remaining trustees or the beneficiaries may discharge that
trustee or that trustee’s representatives of that trustee’s acts and
intromissions,

12.1.b

dies, the remaining trustees or the beneficiaries may discharge that trustee’s
representatives of that trustee’s acts and intromissions,

12.1.c

is removed from office under  section 7  or  9 , the remaining trustees or the
beneficiaries may discharge that trustee or that trustee’s representatives of
that trustee’s acts and intromissions,

12.1.d

is removed from office under  section 10 , the beneficiaries may discharge
that trustee or that trustee’s representatives of that trustee’s acts and
intromissions.

12.2

If—

12.2.a

discharge under  subsection (1) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  cannot be obtained from
the remaining trustees, and

12.2.b

the beneficiaries of the trust refuse, or are unable for any reason, to grant
it,

the court may, on the application of that trustee or as the case may be of
that trustee’s guardian or representatives and after such intimation and
inquiry as the court thinks necessary, grant it.

12.3

If the beneficiaries of the trust refuse, or are unable for any reason, to
grant discharge under  subsection (1) (d) , the court may, on the application
of that trustee or as the case may be of that trustee’s guardian or
representatives and after such intimation and inquiry as the court thinks
necessary, grant it.

12.4

In this section, the references to beneficiaries are, in relation to any
beneficiary who has not attained the age of 16 years or is incapable, to be
construed as references to an appropriate person in relation to the
beneficiary (see section 81(2)).

12.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

#### Decision-making by trustees

##### Decisions: preliminary

13

13.1

This section  applies in relation to any decision of the trustees which is to
bind them.

13.2

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), in so far as is reasonably practicable a trustee—

13.2.a

must receive adequate notice of the matter as regards which the decision is to
be made, and

13.2.b

must be afforded an opportunity (whether or not at a meeting of the trustees)
to express an opinion in the matter before the decision is taken.

13.3

But a decision which is invalid by virtue of non-compliance with  subsection
(2)  may be homologated by the trustee in question.

13.4

This section  applies—

13.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

13.4.b

only as regards a decision taken after the section comes into force.

##### Making of decision

14

14.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), a decision binds the trustees only if made by a majority
of those for the time being able to make it.

14.2

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or
implies otherwise), for the purposes of  subsection (1)  a trustee is not to
be regarded as able to make a decision who—

14.2.a

has or might have a personal interest in the decision,

14.2.b

is incapable, or

14.2.c

is untraceable.

14.3

But  subsection (2) (a)  is to be disregarded if (either or both)—

14.3.a

all the beneficiaries know of the personal interest and consent to the trustee
acting,

14.3.b

the truster appointed the trustee in the knowledge that such a decision might
require to be taken and that the trustee would have a personal interest in it
(or must be taken to have appointed the trustee in that knowledge).

14.4

For the purposes of subsection (2)(a), a trustee of a public trust is not to
be regarded as having a personal interest in a decision insofar as—

14.4.a

the decision is intended to benefit the public or a particular section of it,
and

14.4.b

the trustee in question may derive a benefit from the decision solely as a
result of being a member of the public or, as the case may be, the particular
section of it.

14.5

In  subsection (3) (a) , the reference to beneficiaries is, in relation to any
beneficiary who has not attained the age of 16 years or is incapable, to be
construed as a reference to an appropriate person in relation to the
beneficiary (see section 81(2)).

14.6

This section  applies—

14.6.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

14.6.b

only as regards a decision taken after the section comes into force.

#### Powers and duties of trustees

##### Powers: general

###### General powers of trustees

15

15.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise (or, in a case
where there is no trust deed, the context requires or implies otherwise) the
trustees have in relation to the trust property all the powers of a natural
person beneficially entitled to the property.

15.2

But  this section  is without prejudice to—

15.2.a

a trustee’s fiduciary duty (including a trustee’s duty to fulfil the trust
purposes),

15.2.b

a trustee’s duty of care, and

15.2.c

any restriction or exclusion imposed by or under this Act or any other
enactment.

15.3

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Conferring of additional powers by court

16

16.1

The court may, on the application of the trustees, grant them additional
powers of administration or management in relation to the trust property
(being powers specified in the application).

16.2

Before granting additional powers under subsection (1), the court must—

16.2.a

take into account any objection timeously made by virtue of  subsection (3) ,
and

16.2.b

be satisfied that the trustees having the additional powers in question would
benefit the future administration or management of the trust property.

16.3

An application under  subsection (1)  is to be intimated to the persons
mentioned in  subsection (4) , any of whom may object to its being granted.

16.4

The persons are—

16.4.a

any supervisor,

16.4.b

any protector,

16.4.c

any beneficiary who has a vested interest in the trust property,

16.4.d

such other persons as the court may specify.

16.5

The court is to consider specifying under  subsection (4) (d)  any beneficiary
who has a contingent interest, and any potential beneficiary, under the trust
but—

16.5.a

need not specify under that subsection any such beneficiary or potential
beneficiary, and

16.5.b

may specify under it a person other than any such beneficiary or potential
beneficiary.

16.6

The court may, in granting powers under  subsection (1) , impose such
conditions as to the exercise of those powers as it thinks fit.

16.7

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Power to take out insurance

17

17.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, a trustee has
power to take out such insurance as it is reasonable to take out against
personal liability arising from the trustee’s actings in carrying out the
duties of a trustee.

17.2

In  subsection (1) , the reference to actings is to be construed as including
intentionally not acting in some matter.

17.3

The expense of taking out the insurance is to be paid out of the trust
property.

17.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Investment

###### Power of investment

18

18.1

The trustees have the power to make any kind of investment of trust property,
including an investment in heritable property, except in so far as—

18.1.a

the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides otherwise, or

18.1.b

in a case where there is no trust deed, the context requires or implies
otherwise.

18.2

The power to act under  subsection (1) —

18.2.a

is subject to any restriction or exclusion imposed by or under any enactment,
and

18.2.b

is not conferred on trustees—

18.2.b.i

of an authorised unit trust, or

18.2.b.ii

under any other trust who are entitled by or under another enactment to make
investments of trust property.

18.3

A term—

18.3.a

relating to the powers of a trustee and contained in a trust deed executed
before 3rd August 1961, or

18.3.b

restricting the powers of investment of a trustee to those conferred by the
Trustee Investments Act 1961 and contained in a trust deed executed on or
after that date,

is not to be treated as restricting or excluding the power to act under
subsection (1) .

18.4

The reference, in  paragraph (b)  of  subsection (3) , to a trustee does not
include a reference to a trustee under a trust constituted by a private or
local Act of Parliament or a private Act of the Scottish Parliament; and in
that paragraph “ trust deed ” is to be construed accordingly.

18.5

In  this section , “ authorised unit trust ” means a unit trust scheme in the
case of which an order under section 243 of the Financial Services and Markets
Act 2000 is in force.

18.6

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Exercise of power of investment

19

19.1

Before acting under  section 18 (1)  the trustees—

19.1.a

are to have regard to—

19.1.a.i

the suitability to the trust of the proposed investment, and

19.1.a.ii

the need for diversification of investments of the trust in so far as is
appropriate to the circumstances of the trust, and

19.1.b

are (except where  subsection (3)  applies) to obtain and consider proper
advice about the way in which the power in question should be exercised.

19.2

When reviewing the investments of the trust, the trustees are (except where
subsection (3)  applies) to obtain and consider proper advice about whether
the investments should be varied.

19.3

If the trustees reasonably conclude that in all the circumstances it is
unnecessary or inappropriate to obtain such advice, they need not obtain it.

19.4

In  this section , “ proper advice ” means the advice of a person who is
reasonably believed by the trustees, on the basis of the person’s—

19.4.a

ability, and

19.4.b

practical experience of financial and other matters relating to the proposed
investment,

to be qualified to give it.

19.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Exercise of power of investment: further provision

20

20.1

For the purposes of section 19(1) and (2), where two or more proposed
investments are suitable for the trust, the trustees may (except in so far as
the trust deed, expressly or by implication provides otherwise) take into
account appropriate non-financial considerations in determining which
investment to make.

20.2

An appropriate non-financial consideration may be (either or both)—

20.2.a

a consideration that one investment is more consistent with the purposes of
the trust than the other investment,

20.2.b

an ethical, social or environmental consideration.

20.3

This section—

20.3.a

does not apply as respects a trust created before the section comes into
force, and

20.3.b

is without prejudice to any other power of trustees to take into account non-
financial considerations in relation to determining investments.

##### Sale of property

###### Charitable trusts: sale of property

21

21.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly or by implication provides
otherwise, the trustees of a charitable trust are not under a duty to achieve
best value when selling trust property where—

21.1.a

the property being sold is heritable property, and

21.1.b

the purchaser is a charity.

21.2

But this section is without prejudice to any duty imposed by the Charities and
Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 to act in the interests of the charity
(see, in particular, section 66 of that Act).

21.3

For the purposes of this section, a “charity” is a non-natural person—

21.3.a

registered in the Scottish Charity Register,

21.3.b

which—

21.3.b.i

is registered as a charity in England and Wales in accordance with section 30
of the Charities Act 2011, or

21.3.b.ii

by virtue of subsection (2) of that section, is not required to register as a
charity under that section,

21.3.c

which—

21.3.c.i

is registered as a charity in Northern Ireland in accordance with section 16
of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008, or

21.3.c.ii

by virtue of subsection (2A) of that section, is not required to register as a
charity under that section.

21.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection (3) so as to
specify further descriptions of person who are a charity for the purposes of
this section.

21.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

21.6

This section—

21.6.a

does not apply as respects a trust created before the section comes into
force, and

21.6.b

is without prejudice to any other power of trustees in relation to the selling
of trust property.

##### Delegation and the appointment of agents and nominees

###### Delegation and the appointment of agents

22

22.1

Subject to the provisions of  this section  and except in so far as the trust
deed expressly provides otherwise, the trustees may delegate the exercise of
any of their powers and in particular may—

22.1.a

appoint an agent,

22.1.b

authorise a person so appointed to execute a deed or other document on behalf
of the body of trustees.

22.2

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, the trustees
have (and are to be taken always to have had) the power to authorise an agent
to exercise any of their investment management functions—

22.2.a

at the agent’s discretion, or

22.2.b

in such other manner as the trustees may direct.

22.3

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsections (1)  and  (2) , a person
who is a trustee may be—

22.3.a

appointed or authorised under  subsection (1) ,

22.3.b

authorised under  subsection (2) .

22.4

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, the trustees
may pay such remuneration as they consider reasonable to any person appointed
or authorised under  subsection (1) .

22.5

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, the reference
in  subsection (1)  to the trustee’s powers does not include a reference to a
power—

22.5.a

relating to whether or in what way assets of the trust should be distributed,

22.5.b

relating to whether any fee or other payment due to be made out of the trust
funds should be made out of capital or income,

22.5.c

to appoint a person to be a trustee of the trust, or

22.5.d

which is conferred by any other enactment or by the trust deed and permits the
trustees—

22.5.d.i

to delegate any of their functions, or

22.5.d.ii

to appoint a person to act as a nominee in relation to the trust property.

22.6

In  subsection (2) , “ investment management functions ” means functions
relating to the management of investments of the trust property, heritable as
well as moveable.

22.7

Subsections (1)  and  (2)  are subject to any restriction or exclusion imposed
by or under any enactment.

22.8

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Appointment of nominees

23

23.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, the trustees
may, for the purpose of the exercise of any of their powers—

23.1.a

appoint a person to act as their nominee in relation to such of the trust
property, heritable as well as moveable, as they may determine (in  this
section  referred to as the “ determined assets ”), and

23.1.b

take such steps as are requisite to secure the transfer of title to the
determined assets to the nominee.

23.2

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsection (1) , reference in that
subsection to the powers of the trustees includes a reference to their
investment management functions (as defined in  section 22 (6) ).

23.3

Determined assets held by the nominee are held on trust for the trustees by
the nominee (irrespective of any purported agreement to the contrary).

23.4

Determined assets title to which is transferred to the nominee may include
clients’ money.

23.5

Without prejudice to  subsection (3) ,  subsection (1)  is subject to any
restriction or exclusion imposed by or under any enactment.

23.6

A person is not to be appointed under  subsection (1) (a)  unless the trustees
reasonably believe—

23.6.a

the appointment is appropriate in the circumstances of the trust, and

23.6.b

the person has the skills, knowledge and expertise it is reasonable to expect
of one who is to act as a nominee.

23.7

An appointment under  subsection (1) (a)  is—

23.7.a

to be made in writing,

23.7.b

to be subject to the trustees obtaining, as soon as is reasonably practicable,
the written acknowledgment of the nominee that the determined assets are held
on trust for the trustees by the nominee,

23.7.c

to be subject to the trustees retaining power to—

23.7.c.i

direct the nominee, and

23.7.c.ii

revoke the appointment, and

23.7.d

subject to  subsection (8) , otherwise to be on such terms as to suitable
remuneration and other matters as the trustees may determine.

23.8

The trustees are not to appoint a nominee on any of the terms mentioned in
subsection (9)  unless they have good cause to do so.

23.9

The terms are—

23.9.a

a term permitting the nominee to appoint a substitute,

23.9.b

a term restricting the liability of the nominee, or of any substitute, to the
trustees or to any beneficiary, and

23.9.c

a term permitting the nominee, or any substitute, to act in circumstances
capable of giving rise to a conflict of interest.

23.10

While a nominee continues to act for the trust, the trustees are—

23.10.a

to keep under review—

23.10.a.i

the arrangements under which the nominee acts, and

23.10.a.ii

how those arrangements are being put into effect,

23.10.b

to consider, if circumstances make it appropriate to do so, whether there is a
need to exercise their power—

23.10.b.i

to direct the nominee, or

23.10.b.ii

to revoke the nominee’s appointment.

23.11

The trustees are to exercise either or both of the powers mentioned in
subsection (10) (b)  if they consider that there is a need to do so.

23.12

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, specify particular circumstances
which may constitute a good cause for the purpose of subsection (8).

23.13

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

23.14

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Power of advancement

###### Power to advance from capital

24

24.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise (or, in a case
where there is no trust deed, the context requires otherwise) the trustees
may, provided that the requirements of subsections  (4)  and  (5)  are
satisfied, advance all or part of the trust capital to a beneficiary for the
benefit of the beneficiary.

24.2

The advance may be on such conditions (if any) as the trustees consider it
reasonable to impose.

24.3

But the trustees may subsequently waive or vary any condition imposed under
subsection (2)  if they consider it appropriate to do so.

24.4

A right to the capital advanced must, as at the date on which the advance is
made, be destined to vest in the beneficiary—

24.4.a

unconditionally,

24.4.b

subject, if an uncertain future event were to occur, to defeasance or
diminution, or

24.4.c

on the occurrence of an uncertain future event.

24.5

Either—

24.5.a

the consent must have been obtained of any person who has a prior interest as
respects the trust property, being an interest which would be prejudiced were
the advance made, or

24.5.b

authorisation to make the advance must have been obtained from the court—

24.5.b.i

on an application to it in that regard by the trustees or by any person with
an interest in the trust property, and

24.5.b.ii

on its being satisfied that any person whose consent is (but for  this
paragraph ) required by  paragraph (a)  is either withholding consent
unreasonably or does not have capacity to give consent.

24.6

Authorisation under  subsection (5) (b)  may be granted subject to such
conditions (if any) as the court thinks fit to impose.

24.7

Any amount advanced under  this section  (other than an amount which has been
repaid) must be brought into account by the trustees as part of the share in
the trust property to which the beneficiary is, or will become, entitled.

24.8

For the purposes of  subsection (7) , the value of the advance is its market
value as at the date on which the advance is made (interest in relation to the
advance being disregarded).

24.9

It is not an objection to an advance to the beneficiary under  this section
that the advance is made by setting up a new trust for the benefit of the
beneficiary and transferring the capital advanced as assets to be held in that
new trust (or, without setting up a new trust, by transferring the capital
advanced to assets for the time being held in any trust for the benefit of the
beneficiary).

24.10

Subsection (9)  applies whether or not any third party gains incidental
benefit from the transfer or as the case may be from the setting up of the new
trust.

24.11

The trustees are not liable for any loss which the trust property may incur by
virtue of—

24.11.a

a condition imposed by them under  subsection (2) ,

24.11.b

a condition which might have been so imposed not having been so imposed,

24.11.c

their exercising, or failing to exercise, powers under  subsection (3) .

24.12

This section  applies—

24.12.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

24.12.b

only as respects an advance made after the section comes into force.

##### Apportionment

###### Exercise of power to apportion between or among beneficiaries

25

25.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, no exercise by a trustee of a power to apportion funds or other
property between or among certain beneficiaries is invalid on the ground only
that—

25.1.a

an insubstantial, illusory or nominal part is apportioned to (or left to
devolve unapportioned upon) one of the beneficiaries, or

25.1.b

one of the beneficiaries is not apportioned a part.

25.2

But  subsection (1)  is without prejudice to the grounds on which the court
may grant a remedy under  section 68 .

25.3

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Time apportionment

26

26.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise (or, in a case
where there is no trust deed, the context requires otherwise), the trustees
may determine that amounts mentioned in section 2 of the Apportionment Act
1870 (which provides for rents, dividends and other periodical payments to be
apportionable in respect of time) are—

26.1.a

to be apportioned as mentioned in that section, or

26.1.b

not to be apportioned in such manner, but instead to accrue as they arise.

26.2

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Apportionment: disapplication of certain rules

27

27.1

Any rule of law relating to the allocation and apportionment of trust receipts
and outgoings ceases to have effect in relation to a trust, irrespective of
when that trust was created.

27.2

Subsection (1)  does not affect allocation and apportionment which falls to be
made before  this section  comes into force.

##### Payments from income

###### Power to make payments etc. from income

28

28.1

Subject to  subsection (8)  and except in so far as the trust deed, expressly
or by implication, provides otherwise (or, in a case where there is no trust
deed, the context requires or implies otherwise) the trustees may, provided
that the requirements of subsections  (4)  and  (5)  are satisfied, pay or
otherwise apply all or part of the trust income (whether as it arises or after
it has accumulated) to a beneficiary for the benefit of the beneficiary.

28.2

The paying or applying may be on such conditions (if any) as the trustees
consider it reasonable to impose.

28.3

But the trustees may subsequently waive or vary any condition imposed under
subsection (2)  if they consider it appropriate to do so.

28.4

The income paid or applied must, as at the date on which it is paid or
applied, be income from capital destined to vest in the beneficiary—

28.4.a

unconditionally,

28.4.b

subject, if an uncertain future event were to occur, to defeasance or
diminution, or

28.4.c

on the occurrence of an uncertain future event.

28.5

The trustees must be satisfied, as at the date mentioned in  subsection (4) ,
that no person other than the beneficiary is entitled to the income paid or
applied.

28.6

Any amount paid or applied under  this section  (other than an amount which
has been repaid) must be brought into account by the trustees as part of the
share in the trust property to which the beneficiary is, or will become,
entitled.

28.7

For the purposes of  subsection (6) , the payment or application is to be
deemed to be for a consideration equal to the market value of the payment or
application as at the date mentioned in  subsection (4)  (interest in relation
to the payment or application being disregarded).

28.8

If the trust deed directs or permits the trustees to accumulate income, the
authorisation of the court must be obtained under  subsection (9)  to any
exercise of their power under  subsection (1) .

28.9

Such authorisation may be granted by the court on an application to it in that
regard by the trustees or by any person with an interest.

28.10

Authorisation under  subsection (9)  may be granted subject to such conditions
(if any) as the court thinks fit to impose.

28.11

The trustees are not liable for any loss which the trust property may incur by
virtue of—

28.11.a

a condition imposed by them under  subsection (2) ,

28.11.b

a condition which might have been so imposed not having been so imposed,

28.11.c

their exercising, or failing to exercise, powers under  subsection (3) .

28.12

This section  applies—

28.12.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

28.12.b

only as regards a payment, or application of income, made after the section
comes into force.

##### Duty to provide information

###### Trustees’ duty to provide information other than on request

29

29.1

It is the duty of the trustees, on becoming aware that a person is as
described in  subsection (2) —

29.1.a

to inform the person (or if the person has not attained the age of 16 years,
or is incapable, an appropriate person in relation to that person (see section
81(2))) accordingly, and

29.1.b

to disclose with that information—

29.1.b.i

the names of all the trustees, and

29.1.b.ii

information sufficient to enable the person (or an appropriate person in
relation to that person) to enter readily into correspondence with them.

29.2

The persons are—

29.2.a

a beneficiary who has a vested interest in the trust property,

29.2.b

any other beneficiary who the trustees reasonably consider ought to be
informed under  subsection (1) , and

29.2.c

a potential beneficiary, the imminence of whose becoming a beneficiary appears
to the trustees to be such that it would be unreasonable not to inform that
potential beneficiary under  subsection (1) .

29.3

For the purposes of  this section , trustees must take such steps as appear to
them to be appropriate in all the circumstances to ensure that beneficiaries
and potential beneficiaries are identified and traced.

29.4

The information is to be provided within such period as is reasonable in all
the circumstances; except that if the person to be informed is a beneficiary
who has acquired an immediate interest in the trust property the information
must be provided as soon as is reasonably practicable.

29.5

In providing information, or making a disclosure, to any person under
subsection (1) , the trustees need not—

29.5.a

give any advice to that person, or

29.5.b

comment upon the information or disclosure in question.

29.6

If information provided by virtue of  subsection (1)  ceases to be current,
the trustees must without delay inform the beneficiary or potential
beneficiary (or an appropriate person in relation to the beneficiary or
potential beneficiary) of such changes as are needed to update it.

29.7

This section —

29.7.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

29.7.b

except in the case of a beneficiary who has a personal interest in the trust
property, does not apply as respects a private purpose trust.

###### Trustees’ duty to provide information on request

30

30.1

It is the duty of the trustees to disclose—

30.1.a

to a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

30.1.b

where the beneficiary or potential beneficiary has not attained the age of 16
years, or is incapable, to an appropriate person in relation to that person
(see section 81(2)),

30.1.c

where the beneficiary or potential beneficiary has attained the age of 16
years and is capable but has instructed a solicitor to act on that person’s
behalf, to the solicitor, or

30.1.d

where the beneficiary or potential beneficiary has (wholly or in part)
assigned that person’s interest in the trust, to the assignee,

information requested by the beneficiary (or as the case may be by the
potential beneficiary, appropriate person, solicitor or assignee) as regards
the trust unless the trustees consider it would be inappropriate, in all the
circumstances, to make the disclosure.

30.2

But  subsection (1)  is subject—

30.2.a

to the express provisions of the trust deed, and

30.2.b

to the following provisions of  this section .

30.3

Subsections (1) and (9) do not apply where—

30.3.a

a person is a potential beneficiary (or an appropriate person in relation to,
solicitor or assignee of, such a person), and

30.3.b

that person’s interest in the trust is, or would be, so remote as to be of
negligible value.

30.4

The disclosure—

30.4.a

is to be made in such a way as is appropriate in all the circumstances, and

30.4.b

may be conditional on payment of such expenses as are reasonably incurred by
the trustees in making it.

30.5

Any duty arising by virtue of  paragraph (d)  of  subsection (1)  is without
prejudice to any other duty under that subsection.

30.6

A disclosure under  subsection (1)  is to be made as soon as is reasonably
practicable after receipt of the request.

30.7

It is to be presumed that the trustees will not ordinarily disclose under
subsection (1)  information requested in respect of—

30.7.a

some other beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

30.7.b

the trustees’ deliberations or reasons for their decisions, or

30.7.c

letters of wishes (that is to say documents in which an account is given,
whether or not by the truster, of circumstances which are to be relevant to
the exercise by them of a discretion).

30.8

The trustees may seek a direction from the court as to the fulfilment of their
duty under  subsection (1)  in relation to a particular request.

30.9

The court may, on the application of any person to whom the trustees have
declined to disclose information requested under  subsection (1) , direct the
trustees to disclose the information (or such part of that information as may
be specified by the court) to the person.

30.10

At any time after the trust is created, a person mentioned in  subsection (12)
may apply to the court for a determination as to whether a limitation on
disclosure of information as respects the trust, imposed by the express
provisions of the trust deed, is reasonable in all the circumstances.

30.11

If, on an application under  subsection (10)  as respects such a limitation,
the court determines that the limitation is not reasonable in all the
circumstances it may—

30.11.a

alter the limitation to such extent as it considers expedient having regard to
the need for a beneficiary or potential beneficiary to be able to hold the
trustees to account at an appropriate time, or

30.11.b

rescind the limitation.

30.12

The persons are—

30.12.a

the trustees,

30.12.b

in the case of an inter vivos trust, the truster,

30.12.c

a descendant of the truster,

30.12.d

a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

30.12.e

a descendant or ancestor of a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

30.12.f

an appropriate person in relation to a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

30.12.g

a judicial factor, and

30.12.h

unless the trust deed expressly or impliedly excludes the possibility—

30.12.h.i

a protector, and

30.12.h.ii

a supervisor.

30.13

Subsection (10) does not apply where—

30.13.a

a person is—

30.13.a.i

a descendant of the truster,

30.13.a.ii

a potential beneficiary (or an appropriate person in relation to, solicitor or
assignee of, such a person), or

30.13.a.iii

a descendant or ancestor of a beneficiary or potential beneficiary, and

30.13.b

that person’s interest in the trust is, or would be, so remote as to be of
negligible value.

30.14

This section —

30.14.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

30.14.b

except in the case of a beneficiary who has a personal interest in the trust
property, does not apply as respects a private purpose trust.

30.15

But  subsection (14) (a)  is subject to  subsection (16) .

30.16

In the period of a year beginning with the day on which this section comes
into force, this section does not apply to a trust created before that day.

##### Trustees’ duty of care etc.

###### Trustees’ duty of care etc.

31

31.1

Subject to  subsections (2)  and  (3) , a trustee, in managing the affairs of
the trust, is required to exercise such care and diligence as any person of
ordinary prudence would exercise in managing the affairs of another person.

31.2

A person who in the course of business provides professional services in
relation to managing the affairs of trusts is required, where appointed or
assumed as a trustee and remunerated for carrying out the duties of that
office, to exercise such skill, care and diligence as it is reasonable to
expect from a member of the profession in question.

31.3

A natural person with professional qualifications who is appointed or assumed
as a trustee but is not a person mentioned in  subsection (2)  is—

31.3.a

if expressly instructed by or on behalf of the trustees to provide
professional services or advice to the trust, required (whether remunerated or
not) to exercise such skill, care and diligence in providing those services or
that advice as it is reasonable to expect from a member of the profession in
question, and

31.3.b

if not so instructed, required only to exercise such care and diligence as is
mentioned in  subsection (1) .

31.4

A provision of a trust deed is of no effect in so far as the provision
purports—

31.4.a

to lessen a requirement imposed by  subsections (1)  to  (3) ,

31.4.b

to relieve a trustee from liability arising from a failure to exercise the
skill, care or diligence required of that trustee by  subsection (2)  or  (3)
(a) ,

31.4.c

in the case of a trustee who is required only to exercise such care and
diligence as is mentioned in  subsection (1) , to relieve the trustee from
liability arising by virtue of the trustee’s gross negligence,

31.4.d

to exclude or restrict any right or remedy in relation to a liability arising
as mentioned in  paragraph (b)  or  (c) ,

31.4.e

to indemnify a trustee for any liability arising as mentioned in either of
those paragraphs,

31.4.f

to subject a person to any prejudice in respect of pursuing such a right or
remedy,

31.4.g

to exclude or restrict any rule of evidence or procedure in its application to
the pursuit of such a right or remedy, or

31.4.h

to make a liability arising as mentioned in  paragraph (b)  or  (c) , or its
enforcement, subject to restrictive or onerous conditions.

31.5

This section  applies—

31.5.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

31.5.b

only as respects managing the affairs of the trust after the section comes
into force.

##### Breach of duty etc.

###### Breach of fiduciary duty at instigation or request of beneficiary or with consent of beneficiary

32

32.1

This section  applies where a trustee is in breach of a fiduciary duty—

32.1.a

at the instigation or request of a beneficiary, or

32.1.b

with the written consent of a beneficiary.

32.2

The court may if it thinks fit make such order, assigning by way of indemnity
all or part of the beneficiary’s interest in the trust property to the trustee
or (as the case may be) to any person claiming through the trustee, as seems
to the court to be just.

32.3

This section  applies—

32.3.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

32.3.b

only as respects a breach of a fiduciary duty occurring after the section
comes into force.

###### Order relieving trustee of consequences of actings which are ultra vires

33

33.1

This section  applies where actings of a trustee are ultra vires.

33.2

On the application of the trustee the court may, if the condition mentioned in
subsection (3)  is satisfied, make such order relieving the trustee of the
consequences of those actings as seems to the court to be just.

33.3

The condition is that the trustee believes (after taking all reasonable steps
and making all reasonable enquiry) that it is within the trustee’s powers to
act as the trustee does.

33.4

Subsection (2)  is without prejudice to any right of a beneficiary or trustee
to recover trust property from a person, other than a trustee, to whom a
payment would not have been made but for the actings in question.

33.5

This section  applies—

33.5.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

33.5.b

only as respects actings occurring after the section comes into force.

###### Provision purporting to limit liability for, or indemnify for, breach of fiduciary duty

34

34.1

In so far as a provision of a trust deed purports generally to—

34.1.a

limit any liability of a trustee for, or

34.1.b

indemnify a trustee for,

the trustee’s breach of a fiduciary duty, the provision is of no effect.

34.2

But  subsection (1)  is without prejudice to any provision of a trust deed
which authorises a particular action or decision, or a particular class of
actions or decisions, which but for that authority would constitute a breach
of a fiduciary duty.

34.3

This section  applies—

34.3.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

34.3.b

only as respects a breach of a fiduciary duty occurring after the section
comes into force.

###### Order relieving trustee of consequences of entering into a transaction in breach of fiduciary duty

35

35.1

This section  applies where a trustee has entered into, or proposes to enter
into, a transaction in breach of a fiduciary duty.

35.2

The court may, on the application of the trustee, if it thinks fit and if the
conditions mentioned in  subsection (3)  are satisfied make such order,
relieving the trustee of the consequences of breaching that duty, as seems to
the court to be just.

35.3

The conditions are—

35.3.a

that the transaction has benefited, or is likely to benefit, both the trust
property and (collectively) the beneficiaries, and

35.3.b

that the terms of the transaction are at least as favourable to the trust
property as those likely to have been, or to be, obtained in a comparable
commercial transaction at arms-length.

35.4

This section  applies—

35.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

35.4.b

only as respects a transaction entered into, or to be entered into, after the
section comes into force.

##### Personal liability of trustees

###### Trustees’ personal liability for beneficiary’s loss

36

36.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, a trustee only has personal liability for any loss to a beneficiary
which results from—

36.1.a

the trustee’s own acts or omissions, or

36.1.b

a breach of trust, or of fiduciary duty, by a co-trustee if the trustee failed
to take reasonable steps to ensure that the co-trustee did not commit the
breach.

36.2

This section  applies—

36.2.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

36.2.b

only as respects—

36.2.b.i

an act,

36.2.b.ii

an omission, or

36.2.b.iii

a breach of trust or of fiduciary duty,

occurring after the section comes into force.

36.3

This section is subject to the other provisions of this Act concerning the
personal liability of trustees (including, in particular, sections 39, 40 and
70).

###### Errors in distribution: circumstances in which trustee not personally liable

37

37.1

A trustee is not personally liable for any error in the distribution of any
property, or the income of property, vested in the trustee as trustee if—

37.1.a

the error was caused by the trustee not knowing (either or both)—

37.1.a.i

of the existence, or non-existence, of a person,

37.1.a.ii

of a person's relationship, or lack of relationship, to another person, and

37.1.b

the distribution takes place—

37.1.b.i

in good faith and after such enquiries as any reasonable and prudent trustee
would have made in the circumstances of the case, or

37.1.b.ii

in accordance with an order of the court.

37.2

Subsection (1)  does not affect any right which a person entitled to the
property or income concerned has to recover it from another person.

37.3

Subsection (2)  is without prejudice to section 24 of the Succession
(Scotland) Act 2016.

37.4

This section  applies—

37.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

37.4.b

only as respects distributions occurring after the section comes into force.

#### Contractual rights, damages and the validity of certain transactions and documents

##### Contractual rights

###### Contractual rights

38

38.1

Subsection (2)  applies where, acting intra vires, the trustees enter into an
onerous contract with a person who, at the time the contract is entered into,
is aware (whether or not by virtue of having been so informed by the trustees)
that the trustees are entering into the contract in their capacity as
trustees.

38.2

Subject to  subsections (3)  and  (4)  and except in so far as the contract
otherwise provides, any rights of the person under the contract are
enforceable against the trust property only.

38.3

Subsection (4)  applies where—

38.3.a

a person has a contractual right enforceable against the trustees’ private
property, but

38.3.b

the trustees have a right of relief against the trust property in respect of
any finding against the trustees’ private property.

38.4

The person may elect to enforce the right against the trustees’ private
property or directly against the trust property (liability being joint and
several).

38.5

Subsection (6)  applies where, acting ultra vires (and whether or not
purporting to be acting intra vires), the trustees enter into an onerous
contract with a person.

38.6

Any rights of the person under the contract—

38.6.a

are not enforceable against the trust property, but

38.6.b

if the person enters into the contract in good faith, are enforceable against
the trustees’ private property.

38.7

This section  applies—

38.7.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

38.7.b

only as respects a contract entered into after the section comes into force.

##### Damages

###### Damages for loss resulting from trustee’s act or omission in ordinary course of administration

39

39.1

This section  applies where—

39.1.a

in consequence of a trustee’s act or omission (or of an act or omission of a
person for whom the trustees are responsible) a person other than a trustee
suffers loss, and

39.1.b

that act or omission arises in the ordinary course of administering the trust.

39.2

Subject to  subsection (3) , any damages awarded in respect of that loss are
recoverable from the trust property only.

39.3

In making any award in respect of that loss the court may, if satisfied that
the act or omission was in any way attributable to the trustee’s failure to
exercise such skill, care or diligence as is required of that trustee by
section 31 , determine that damages are recoverable, in whole or in part, from
the trustee’s private property (to the extent of the trustee’s failure) and
the balance (if any) from the trust property.

39.4

This section  applies—

39.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

39.4.b

only as respects an act or omission occurring after the section comes into
force.

###### Bringing of action for damages for loss resulting from trustee’s act or omission in ordinary course of administration

40

40.1

This section  applies where—

40.1.a

in consequence of the act or omission of a trustee (in  this section  referred
to as “ T ”), a person other than a trustee suffers loss, and

40.1.b

that act or omission arises in the ordinary course of administering the trust.

40.2

Any action for damages in respect of that loss may be brought—

40.2.a

against the body of trustees,

40.2.b

on the basis of personal liability, against T, or

40.2.c

jointly and severally, against both the body of trustees and T.

40.3

At any time before final judgement in proceedings brought as mentioned in
subsection (2) (a) , the court may, under rules of court, allow the body of
trustees an amendment—

40.3.a

adding T, as an additional defender, to the instance of the principal writ,
and

40.3.b

directing existing or additional conclusions or craves, averments and pleas-
in-law against T.

###### Delictual liability: trustee’s right of relief against other trustees

41

41.1

Subsection (2)  applies where a body of trustees incurs delictual liability
but none of them incurs personal liability as respects the delict.

41.2

Each trustee has a right of relief against the other trustees jointly and
severally.

41.3

Subsection (2)  is subject to section 3(1) of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous
Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1940 (which provides for contributions to be in
such proportions as are deemed just).

41.4

This section  applies—

41.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

41.4.b

only as respects liability incurred after the section comes into force.

###### Trustees’ liability in relation to certain obligations

42

42.1

This section  applies where a body of trustees incurs liability in respect of
an obligation under—

42.1.a

environmental law, or

42.1.b

the law relating to an occupier’s ownership or control of heritable property,

being liability incurred in the ordinary course of administering the trust.

42.2

Subject to  subsection (3) , any damages awarded in respect of that liability
are recoverable from the trust property only.

42.3

In making any award in respect of that liability the court may, if satisfied
that the liability was in any way attributable to a trustee’s failure to
exercise such skill, care or diligence as is required of that trustee by
section 31 , determine that damages are recoverable, in whole or in part, from
the trustee’s private property (to the extent of the trustee’s failure) and
the balance (if any) from the trust property.

42.4

This section  applies—

42.4.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

42.4.b

only as respects a liability incurred after the section comes into force.

##### Validity of certain transactions and documents

###### Validity of certain transactions entered into by trustees

43

43.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

43.1.a

the trustees enter into an onerous transaction with any person, and

43.1.b

the transaction is one under which the trustees purport to exercise, in
relation to the trust property, or to any part of the trust property, a power
under  section 15 (1)  or  18 (1)  whether the power derives from the trust
deed or is implied by those sections.

43.2

The validity of the transaction, and of any title acquired under the
transaction by the second party, are not challengeable by that or any other
person on the ground that—

43.2.a

the exercise of the power is at variance with the terms or purposes of the
trust, or

43.2.b

on the part of the trustees, there has been some procedural irregularity or
omission.

43.3

Except that, if the trustees are acting under the supervision of the
accountant of court and the exercise of the power is under  section 15 (1) ,
then  subsection (2) (a)  applies only if the accountant consents to the
transaction.

43.4

Nothing in  subsections (1)  to  (3)  affects any question of liability as
between the trustees.

43.5

This section  applies—

43.5.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

43.5.b

only as respects a transaction entered into after the section comes into
force.

###### Validity of certain deeds and other documents bearing to be executed by trustees

44

44.1

Except in so far as the trust deed expressly provides otherwise, a deed, or
other document, bearing to be executed by the body of trustees is valid if
executed by a majority of the trustees of that body.

44.2

Subsection (1)  is without prejudice to  section 22 (1) (b) .

44.3

This section  applies—

44.3.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

44.3.b

only as respects a document executed after the section comes into force.

#### Duration of trust

##### Abolition of restrictions on accumulation and on creation of future interests

45

45.1

Subject to any rule of law, a trust may be constituted of whatever duration
the truster elects.

45.2

The following (which relate to restrictions on the accumulation of income) are
repealed in relation to a trust—

45.2.a

the Accumulations Act 1892,

45.2.b

section 5 of the Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961, and

45.2.c

section 6 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1966.

45.3

The following (which relate to restrictions on the creation of future
interests) are repealed in relation to a trust—

45.3.a

sections 47 to 49 of the Entail Amendment Act 1848,

45.3.b

section 45 of the Conveyancing (Scotland) Act 1924, and

45.3.c

section 18 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1968.

45.4

The following rules of law do not apply in relation to a trust—

45.4.a

the rule known as the rule in  Frog’s Creditors  (which provides that a
conveyance to a non-existent or unascertainable person, with the grant of a
liferent to a living individual, results in that individual becoming owner),
and

45.4.b

the rule known as the rule in  Newlands  (which provides that a conveyance
such as is mentioned in paragraph (a), but with the grant in question
described as being for the liferent use allenarly of the living individual,
results in that individual becoming fiduciary fiar and not owner).

45.5

This section  does not apply—

45.5.a

as respects a trust created before the section comes into force (except in so
far as the trust deed expressly provides for accumulation in anticipation of
any change in the law), or

45.5.b

as respects a public trust which is not a charitable trust.

#### Private purpose trusts

##### Private purpose trusts: general

###### Private purpose trusts: general

46

46.1

A private purpose trust exists where—

46.1.a

the trust property is held by, or is vested in, a trustee for the furtherance
of a specific purpose which is not a charitable or other public purpose, and

46.1.b

the trust is not constituted solely for the benefit of a specific beneficiary
(or potential beneficiary).

46.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , it is immaterial whether the trust
property is also held by, or vested in, the trustee for the benefit of any
person (whether or not a person yet ascertained or in existence).

46.3

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Applications to the court

###### Application for order requiring fulfilment of purpose of private purpose trust

47

47.1

Any person with an interest in the purpose of a private purpose trust
(including, without prejudice to the generality of  section 50 (1) (a) , any
supervisor) may apply to the court for an order requiring steps to be taken
for the fulfilment of that purpose.

47.2

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Application to reform trust

48

48.1

This section  applies where property is held for the specific purpose of a
private purpose trust.

48.2

If executing the trust in accordance with its terms becomes, whether in
relation to all or only to part of the property—

48.2.a

impossible or impracticable,

48.2.b

unlawful or contrary to public policy, or

48.2.c

inappropriate because, by reason of changed circumstances, to do so would no
longer accord with the general intent of the trust,

the trustees or (unless the trust deed expressly or impliedly excludes the
possibility) a supervisor may apply to the court to reform the trust.

48.3

On such application the court—

48.3.a

may direct that the trust property, or where the application relates only to
part of the trust property the part in question, be held for such other
purpose as it considers to be consistent with the spirit of the truster’s
directions, or

48.3.b

if it is of the opinion that the trust cannot be reformed consistently with
the spirit of those directions, may direct—

48.3.b.i

where the application relates to all of the trust property, that the trustees
dispose of that property as though the trust has failed, or

48.3.b.ii

where the application relates only to part of the trust property, that the
trustees dispose of that part as though the trust has failed in relation to
that part.

48.4

But  subsections (2)  and  (3)  are to be disregarded if the trust can be
reformed in accordance with its own terms.

48.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Supervisors

###### Appointment of supervisor

49

49.1

The truster may, in respect of a private purpose trust, by the trust deed make
provision for the appointment of a person (to be known as a “ supervisor ”) to
oversee the fulfilment by the trustees of the trust’s specific purpose.

49.2

The duties of the supervisor are fiduciary obligations; and the supervisor is
subject to a duty of care.

49.3

It is not competent to appoint—

49.3.a

a trustee to be a supervisor of the trust, or

49.3.b

a supervisor of the trust to be a trustee.

49.4

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, it is competent for there to be more than one supervisor of the
trust at any time.

49.5

Subsection (6)  applies where—

49.5.a

the terms of a private purpose trust require the appointment of a supervisor
but it is impossible, difficult or inexpedient to make the appointment without
the court’s assistance, or

49.5.b

no supervisor exists or is traceable who has the legal capacity, and is
willing and fit, to carry out the duties of that office.

49.6

The court may appoint a person to be a supervisor of the private purpose
trust—

49.6.a

in the case mentioned in  paragraph (a)  of  subsection (5) , on the
application of—

49.6.a.i

the trustees,

49.6.a.ii

a supervisor, or

49.6.a.iii

any other person with an interest in the trust, or

49.6.b

in the case mentioned in  paragraph (b)  of that subsection, on the
application of—

49.6.b.i

the trustees, or

49.6.b.ii

any other person with an interest in the trust.

49.7

The making of an appointment under  subsection (6) (b)  removes any existing
supervisor from office.

49.8

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Rights and remedies of supervisor

50

50.1

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, the supervisor of a private purpose trust has the same rights as a
beneficiary would have—

50.1.a

to bring an action, or make an application to the court, in respect of the
trust,

50.1.b

to be informed by the trustees of the terms of the trust deed,

50.1.c

to receive information concerning the trust and its administration from the
trustees, and

50.1.d

to inspect, and take copies of, the trust documents.

50.2

Subsections (4)  and  (6)  to  (9)  of  section 30  apply to a disclosure to a
supervisor by virtue of  subsection (1)  as they apply to a disclosure to a
beneficiary by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  of that section.

50.3

The supervisor has, in the performance of the supervisor’s duties as respects
the private purpose trust, the same rights as a trustee would have—

50.3.a

to protection and indemnity, and

50.3.b

to make an application to the court for—

50.3.b.i

an opinion,

50.3.b.ii

advice or direction, or

50.3.b.iii

relief from personal liability.

50.4

In the event of a breach of trust, the supervisor has, on behalf of the
private purpose trust, the same remedies against the trustees or a third party
as a beneficiary would have.

50.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Application to supervisors of certain provisions relating to removal from office and to decision making

51

51.1

Sections 7 ,  13  and  14  apply in relation to a supervisor and the duties of
a supervisor as they apply in relation to a trustee and the duties of a
trustee.

51.2

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Resignation of supervisor

52

52.1

A supervisor has power to resign office by notice in writing sent to the
trustees.

52.2

The resignation takes effect on receipt of that notice.

52.3

But any resignation sent under  this section  in order to facilitate a breach
of trust is of no effect.

52.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

#### Protectors

##### Protectors

53

53.1

The truster may by the trust deed—

53.1.a

make provision for the appointment of a person (to be known as a “ protector
”) to oversee the exercise by the trustees of their functions, and

53.1.b

require the trustees to obtain the consent of the protector before exercising
(or before exercising in circumstances specified in the trust deed) such of
those functions as may be so specified.

53.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1)  the truster may, by the trust deed,
confer powers on the protector.

53.3

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsection (2) , powers conferred by
virtue of that subsection may include the power to—

53.3.a

direct the trustees to remove, under  section 9 (1) , one of their number from
office,

53.3.b

direct the trustees to assume, under  section 3 (1) , an additional trustee,

53.3.c

withhold, whether conditionally or unconditionally, consent required by
trustees to—

53.3.c.i

a person being given or refused a beneficial interest, or

53.3.c.ii

such other matter to which consent may be required by trustees by virtue of
subsection (1)(b),

53.3.d

make an application under  section 65 (1) ,

53.3.e

oppose any application made under that section,

53.3.f

verify the trust accounts, and

53.3.g

represent—

53.3.g.i

an incapable person,

53.3.g.ii

a person who has not attained the age of 16 years,

53.3.g.iii

a beneficiary not yet ascertained,

53.3.g.iv

a potential beneficiary not yet ascertained, or

53.3.g.v

a person who is untraceable.

53.4

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, the protector may, on application to the trustees, inspect, without
charge and at any reasonable time, any document held by them or on their
behalf.

53.5

The duties of the protector are fiduciary obligations; and the protector is
subject to a duty of care.

53.6

It is not competent to appoint—

53.6.a

a trustee to be the protector of the trust, or

53.6.b

the protector of the trust to be a trustee.

53.7

It is competent for the truster to appoint the truster’s own self to be the
protector of the trust.

53.8

Except in so far as the trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides
otherwise, it is competent for there to be more than one protector of the
trust at any time.

53.9

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Appointment of new protector

54

54.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

54.1.a

by the trust deed, the truster appointed a protector, but

54.1.b

no protector exists or is traceable who has the legal capacity, and is willing
and fit, to carry out the duties of that office.

54.2

The truster may appoint a new protector.

54.3

But if the truster has died or is incapable then, except in so far as the
trust deed, expressly or by implication, provides otherwise, the trustees may
appoint a new protector in the circumstances mentioned in  paragraphs (a)  and
(b)  of  subsection (1) .

54.4

The making of an appointment under  subsection (2)  or  (3)  removes any
existing protector from office.

54.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Application to protectors of certain provisions relating to removal from office and to decision making

55

55.1

Sections 7 ,  13  and  14  apply in relation to a protector and the duties of
a protector as they apply in relation to a trustee and the duties of a
trustee.

55.2

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Resignation of protector

56

56.1

A protector has power to resign office by notice in writing sent to the
trustees.

56.2

The resignation takes effect on receipt of that notice.

56.3

But any resignation sent under  this section  in order to facilitate a breach
of trust is of no effect.

56.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Liability for compliance with protector’s direction

57

57.1

This section  applies where a trustee complies timeously and correctly with a
protector’s direction (being a direction which the protector has power to
give).

57.2

In so far as such compliance comprises the breach of a duty owed to a
beneficiary or third party then, except in so far as the trust deed expressly
provides otherwise, the protector, and not the trustee, incurs personal
liability for any resultant harm.

57.3

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

#### Powers of the court

##### Variation and termination of private trusts

###### Arrangements to vary or terminate a trust etc.

58

58.1

This section  applies to an arrangement which—

58.1.a

varies the purposes of a trust,

58.1.b

terminates a trust, whether in whole or in part,

58.1.c

varies the powers of trustees to manage or administer trust property, or

58.1.d

creates a new trust in relation to all or part of trust property.

58.2

The arrangement may be made if agreement or approval is given in accordance
with  section 59  by or on behalf of each beneficiary, and of each potential
beneficiary, of the trust in question.

58.3

This section  is subject to  section 62 .

58.4

This section —

58.4.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

58.4.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### Agreement or approval for purposes of 

59

59.1

In  this section  “ agreement ” means agreement for the purposes of  section
58 (2)  and “ approval ” means approval for those purposes.

59.2

Agreement may be given by a beneficiary if the beneficiary either—

59.2.a

has attained the age of 18 years and is capable, or

59.2.b

is not a natural person.

59.3

Approval may be given by a potential beneficiary if that person falls within
subsection (7) .

59.4

Approval on behalf of a person who is incapable may be given by any person
authorised to give it and having powers relating to the matter—

59.4.a

under the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000, or

59.4.b

under the law of a country other than Scotland.

59.5

Approval may be given by the court on behalf of—

59.5.a

a person who has not attained the age of 18 years,

59.5.b

a person who is incapable,

59.5.c

a potential beneficiary who does not fall within  subsection (7) ,

59.5.d

an unborn person, or

59.5.e

a person who is untraceable.

59.6

The powers of the court under  subsection (5)  are exercisable on the
application of the trustees or of any of the beneficiaries.

59.7

A potential beneficiary falls within  this subsection  where—

59.7.a

the potential beneficiary either—

59.7.a.i

has attained the age of 18 years and is capable, or

59.7.a.ii

is not a natural person, and

59.7.b

the potential beneficiary would be of the specified description, or as the
case may be a member of the specified class, if—

59.7.b.i

the future date were the date of the hearing of the application for approval,
or

59.7.b.ii

the future event had happened at the date of that hearing.

59.8

In  subsection (7) (b) , “specified description”, “specified class”, “future
date” and “future event” are to be construed by reference to the definition,
in  section 81 (1) , of “potential beneficiary”.

59.9

This section —

59.9.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

59.9.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### Giving of approval by court

60

60.1

The court is to give approval under  section 59 (5)  only if it is of the
opinion that the carrying out of the arrangement in question would not be
prejudicial to the person on whose behalf the approval is sought.

60.2

Except that  subsection (1)  does not apply where the approval is sought
under—

60.2.a

paragraph (c)  of  section 59 (5)  on behalf of a potential beneficiary who
cannot be ascertained if the court is satisfied that there is no reasonable
likelihood of the event taking place which would make that person a
beneficiary, or

60.2.b

paragraph (d)  of that section if the court is satisfied that there is no
reasonable likelihood of the person on whose behalf the approval is sought
being born.

60.3

In considering, for the purposes of  subsection (1) , whether the carrying out
of an arrangement would be prejudicial to a person the court may have regard
to—

60.3.a

any economic or other benefit which the person is likely to receive from the
arrangement,

60.3.b

any economic or other detriment which the person is likely to sustain in
consequence of the arrangement,

60.3.c

the welfare of any member of the person’s family, and

60.3.d

such other factors as seem to the court to be material.

60.4

This section —

60.4.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

60.4.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### Interests of negligible value

61

61.1

This section  applies in relation to loss sustained by—

61.1.a

a beneficiary, or

61.1.b

a potential beneficiary,

(either such person being referred to in  this section  as “B”) as a
consequence of the making of an arrangement to which  section 58  applies.

61.2

The trustees are not liable to B for the loss if—

61.2.a

B was a beneficiary, or potential beneficiary, when the arrangement was made,

61.2.b

agreement by, or approval on behalf of, B to the arrangement (being agreement
or approval in accordance with  section 59 ) was not given, and

61.2.c

prior to the arrangement being made the court, on the application of the
trustees or of any of the beneficiaries, was satisfied either—

61.2.c.i

that B’s interest was so remote as to be of negligible value, or

61.2.c.ii

that, in the event of B becoming a beneficiary, B’s interest would be so
remote as to be of negligible value.

61.3

This section —

61.3.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

61.3.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### Arrangements to vary or revoke alimentary purposes

62

62.1

Where a beneficiary under a trust has entered into enjoyment of—

62.1.a

an alimentary liferent of, or

62.1.b

any alimentary income from,

the trust property, or any part of the trust property, an arrangement to vary
or revoke the alimentary purpose in question requires the authorisation of the
court under  this section  as well as agreement or approval given in
accordance with  section 59 .

62.2

The court may give authorisation under  this section  if it considers that the
carrying out of the arrangement would be reasonable having regard to—

62.2.a

the income of the beneficiary from all sources, and

62.2.b

such other factors as seem to the court to be material.

62.3

The powers of the court under  this section  are exercisable on the
application of the trustees or of any of the beneficiaries.

62.4

Subsection (1)  does not apply to an alimentary purpose created by a woman in
her own favour prior to 24th July 1984.

62.5

In  this section , “ alimentary purpose ” means a trust purpose entitling the
beneficiary to an alimentary liferent of, or alimentary income from, the trust
property or any part of the trust property.

62.6

This section —

62.6.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

62.6.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### Views of persons under 18

63

63.1

This section  applies where the court is considering whether—

63.1.a

to give, on behalf of a person who—

63.1.a.i

has not attained the age of 18 years, and

63.1.a.ii

is capable,

approval under  section 59 (5)  to an arrangement, or

63.1.b

to authorise, under  section 62 , an arrangement in a case where the
alimentary beneficiary is a person mentioned in  paragraph (a) .

63.2

Where the person has attained the age of 16 years but not that of 18 years,
the court is to have regard to the person’s views in relation to the
arrangement.

63.3

Where the person has not attained the age of 16 years, the court is to—

63.3.a

give the person an opportunity to express the person’s views in relation to
the arrangement in—

63.3.a.i

the manner that the person prefers, or

63.3.a.ii

a manner that is suitable to the person if the person has not indicated a
preference or it would not be reasonable in the circumstances to accommodate
the person’s preference, and

63.3.b

have regard to any views expressed by the person, taking into account the
person’s age and maturity.

63.4

But the court is not required to comply with  subsection (3)  if satisfied
that the person is not able to form a view.

63.5

For the purpose of  subsection (4) , the person is to be presumed to be able
to form a view unless the contrary is shown.

63.6

This section —

63.6.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

63.6.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

###### No requirement for agreement of truster

64

64.1

An arrangement referred to in  section 58 (1)  or  62 (1)  may be made without
the agreement of the truster unless that person is, other than by virtue of
being the truster, a beneficiary or potential beneficiary of the trust.

64.2

This section —

64.2.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, but

64.2.b

does not apply as respects a private purpose trust or a public trust.

##### Alteration of trust purposes

###### Alteration of trust purposes on material change in circumstances

65

65.1

The court may, if satisfied—

65.1.a

in the case of an inter vivos trust, that there has been a material change in
circumstances since the trust was created (or that such a change is reasonably
to be regarded as in prospect), or

65.1.b

in the case of a testamentary trust—

65.1.b.i

that there has been a material change in circumstances since the testamentary
writing was executed (or that such a change is reasonably to be regarded as in
prospect), and

65.1.b.ii

that the testator is dead,

alter the trust purposes in so far as it is, in the opinion of the court
expedient to do so to offset or counter the effect, or as the case may be the
prospective effect, of the change in circumstances.

65.2

The power in subsection (1) is exercisable on the application of a person
mentioned in subsection (9) in relation to any trust other than a commercial
trust or a public trust.

65.3

Any other person mentioned in subsection (9) may oppose the application.

65.4

As respects an inter vivos trust, if the trust deed provides expressly that
the purposes of the trust may not be altered by the court during (either or
both)—

65.4.a

the lifetime of the truster,

65.4.b

such period of up to 25 years from the date of the creation of the trust (as
may be specified in the deed),

no application may be made under this section in contravention of that
provision.

65.5

A provision in an inter vivos trust deed that provides expressly that the
purposes of the trust may not be altered by the court for a period longer than
one mentioned in subsection (4)(b) is to be read as specifying that the
purposes may not by altered until (the later of)—

65.5.a

the death of the truster, or

65.5.b

a period of 25 years has elapsed since the date of the creation of the trust.

65.6

Subject to subsection (7), as respects a testamentary trust, if the trust deed
provides expressly that the purposes of the trust may not be altered by the
court during such period of up to 25 years from the date of death of the
testator, no application may be made under this section in contravention of
that provision.

65.7

The court may, if satisfied that there was a period between the change of
circumstances mentioned in subsection (1)(b)(i) and the date of death, during
which the testator (either or both)—

65.7.a

was incapable,

65.7.b

was unaware (or could not reasonably supposed to have been aware) of the
change and its effect on the trust,

determine that the period provided for in subsection (6) began to run, not
from the date of death, but from the date of the change of circumstances or,
if the court thinks fit, from the commencement of the period of incapacity or
unawareness.

65.8

A provision in a testamentary trust deed that provides expressly that the
purposes of the trust may not be altered by the court for a period longer than
one mentioned in subsection (6) is to be read as specifying that the purposes
may not by altered until a period of 25 years has elapsed since the date of
death of the testator.

65.9

The persons are—

65.9.a

the trustees,

65.9.b

in the case of an inter vivos trust, the truster,

65.9.c

a descendant of the truster,

65.9.d

a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

65.9.e

a descendant or ancestor of a beneficiary or potential beneficiary,

65.9.f

an appropriate person in relation to a beneficiary or potential beneficiary
(see section 81(2)),

65.9.g

a judicial factor, and

65.9.h

unless the trust deed expressly or impliedly excludes the possibility—

65.9.h.i

a protector, and

65.9.h.ii

a supervisor.

65.10

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsection (1) , in the exercise of
its power under that subsection the court—

65.10.a

is in particular to have regard—

65.10.a.i

to the intentions, or probable intentions, of the truster as they appear from
the trust deed or testamentary writing and from such other evidence as is
available to the court (except that if those intentions, or probable
intentions, cannot be ascertained the court is instead to have regard to the
probable intentions of a reasonable truster in the circumstances current when
the power is exercised),

65.10.a.ii

to whether the beneficiaries consent to the alteration in question, and

65.10.a.iii

to the fairness of that alteration,

65.10.b

may bring the trust to an end whether in whole or in part, and

65.10.c

may make provision as regards vesting, or postponement of vesting, of the
trust property.

65.11

For the purposes of  subsection (10) (a) , any intention, or probable
intention, to exclude the exercise of the court’s powers under  subsection (1)
may be disregarded.

65.12

In this section “ change in circumstances ” includes (without prejudice to the
generality of the expression) a change in—

65.12.a

the nature or amount of the trust property,

65.12.b

the personal or financial circumstances of—

65.12.b.i

a member of the truster’s family, or

65.12.b.ii

any other person intended to be benefited by the trust, or

65.12.c

the tax regime.

65.13

In deciding, for the purposes of  this section , if a trust is a commercial
trust, the court is in particular to have regard to whether—

65.13.a

the trust is set up under, or by virtue of, a contract (bilateral or
multilateral) of a commercial nature, or

65.13.b

the truster has settled property into the trust for value.

65.14

For the purposes of  this section  “commercial trust”—

65.14.a

means a trust which—

65.14.a.i

forms part of a commercial arrangement, and

65.14.a.ii

is intended to further that arrangement, and

65.14.b

without prejudice to that generality, includes—

65.14.b.i

a life assurance policy,

65.14.b.ii

a unit trust or any other trust-based investment scheme, and

65.14.b.iii

a trust created under or comprised in a partnership agreement.

65.15

This section —

65.15.a

applies irrespective of when the trust was created, and

65.15.b

is without prejudice to  section 67 .

##### Powers in relation to ex officio trustees

###### Appointment by the court of a trustee to take the place of an ex officio trustee

66

66.1

The court may, as regards any trust, on the application of an ex officio
trustee appoint a person nominated by the applicant to be a trustee in place
of the applicant if the court—

66.1.a

considers it expedient to do so for the administration of the trust, and

66.1.b

is satisfied that the power to make such a nomination is not, expressly or by
implication, excluded by the trust deed.

66.2

The making of an appointment under  subsection (1)  removes the applicant from
the office of trustee.

66.3

A person who, having been nominated under  subsection (1) , still holds the
office of trustee as at the date mentioned in  subsection (4) , ceases to hold
the office of trustee on that date.

66.4

The date referred to in  subsection (3)  is the date on which the nominator
ceases to hold the office by virtue of which that person was an ex officio
trustee when the nomination was made.

66.5

In  subsection (1) , the expression “in place of” is not to be construed as
implying that the person appointed is to be in any way dependent upon, or
under the direction of, the nominating trustee.

66.6

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Office supplying ex officio trustee

67

67.1

Where the holder of an office specified in a trust deed is (in terms of the
trust deed) eligible to be a trustee by virtue only of being the holder of
that office, the court may remove the specification of the office from the
trust deed on the application of the trustees.

67.2

Where the specified office is extant, an application under  subsection (1)
may also be made by—

67.2.a

the holder, or

67.2.b

the body of which the holder is an officer.

67.3

If an application under  subsection (1)  seeks the specification of a
different office in substitution for the specification removed, the court may
make that substitution if satisfied either—

67.3.a

that the specification sought is more appropriate to the purposes of the trust
than the specification removed, or

67.3.b

that the office removed is no longer extant.

67.4

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

##### Application in respect of defective exercise of fiduciary power etc.

###### Application in respect of defective exercise of fiduciary power etc.

68

68.1

This section  applies where a relevant person—

68.1.a

considers that a trustee has taken a decision in purported exercise of a
fiduciary power but that taking it was a defective exercise of the power, or

68.1.b

reasonably apprehends that a trustee is about to take a decision in purported
exercise of a fiduciary power but that taking it would be a defective exercise
of the power.

68.2

The relevant person may apply to the court for an appropriate remedy in
respect of the decision taken or as the case may be of the decision which is
about to be taken.

68.3

The grounds on which the court may grant such a remedy are—

68.3.a

that the trustee, in taking the decision, either has considered (or would be
considering) the wrong question or has not considered (or would not be
considering) the correct question,

68.3.b

that the trustee, in taking the decision, either has failed (or would be
failing) to take a relevant consideration into account or has taken (or would
be taking) an irrelevant consideration into account,

68.3.c

that taking the decision was (or would be) ultra vires,

68.3.d

that taking the decision was (or would be) fraud on a power,

68.3.e

that in taking the decision the trustee failed (or would be failing) to act
honestly or in good faith,

68.3.f

where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  of  subsection (1) —

68.3.f.i

that no reasonable person, properly instructed as to the facts and the law,
could have come to the decision, or

68.3.f.ii

that in some other way the decision was perverse,

68.3.g

where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  of  subsection (1) , that the decision would not have been taken but for
the trustee being in error as to fact or law, and

68.3.h

where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(b)  of  subsection (1) , that to take the decision would be perverse.

68.4

Where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  of  subsection (1) ,  paragraph (a)  of  subsection (3)  applies whether
or not the trustee purported to consider the correct question.

68.5

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (g) , the error—

68.5.a

must relate to the factual or legal situation at the time the decision in
question was taken, and

68.5.b

need not be as to the effect or consequence of that decision.

68.6

Nothing in this section limits the power of the court, when considering
whether it is appropriate to grant a remedy on the ground described in
subsection (3)(g), to take into account the purpose (or likely purpose) of the
relevant person making the application (for example, that the application is
being made wholly or mainly for the purpose of avoiding the tax consequences
of the trustee’s decision).

68.7

In  this section —

68.7.a

“ appropriate remedy ” means—

68.7.a.i

where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(a)  of  subsection (1) , reduction (whether partial or full), rectification,
or declarator, and

68.7.a.ii

where the application is made in respect of a decision mentioned in  paragraph
(b)  of that subsection, interdict, and

68.7.b

“ relevant person ” means—

68.7.b.i

the truster, a trustee, a beneficiary or a potential beneficiary,

68.7.b.ii

any protector or supervisor, and

68.7.b.iii

any other person if that other person has a patrimonial interest in the
exercise of the fiduciary power in question (or in its not being exercised).

68.8

This section  applies—

68.8.a

irrespective of when the trust was created, but

68.8.b

only as regards a decision taken (or, as the case may be, which it is
reasonably apprehended will be taken) after the section comes into force.

##### Directions relating to trust matters and the estates of deceased persons

###### Applications in relation to trusts and to the estates of deceased persons

69

69.1

Trustees, protectors or supervisors under a trust deed, or any other person
with an interest in the trust property, may apply to the Court of Session for
a direction on questions relating to—

69.1.a

the investment, distribution, management or administration of the trust
estate, or

69.1.b

the exercise of any power vested in, or the performance of any duty imposed
on, the trustees notwithstanding that such direction may affect contingent
interests in the estate, whether of persons in existence at, or of persons who
may be born after, the date of the direction.

69.2

An executor (nominate or dative) of a person who dies after the coming into
force of this section may, whether or not there is a testamentary trust, apply
to the Court of Session for a direction on questions relating to—

69.2.a

the investment, distribution, management or administration of the person’s
estate,

69.2.b

the exercise of any power vested in, or the performance of any duty imposed
on, the executor notwithstanding that such direction may affect contingent
interests in the estate, whether of persons in existence at, or of persons who
may be born after, the date of the direction.

69.3

In subsection (1)—

      “ protector ” is to be construed in accordance with section 53(1)(a),
and           “ supervisor ” is to be construed in accordance with section
49(1).

##### Expenses

###### Expenses of litigation

70

70.1

Subject to the following provisions of  this section , a trustee does not
incur personal liability for the expenses of civil litigation to which the
trust is party.

70.2

A trustee may be found personally liable, in whole or in part, for the
expenses of civil litigation to which the trust is party if—

70.2.a

the litigation is, in the opinion of the court, unnecessary,

70.2.b

the litigation relates to the trustee’s opposing the appointment of a judicial
factor to administer the trust in place of the trustee and the trustee is
unsuccessful both—

70.2.b.i

in opposing the appointment, and

70.2.b.ii

as regards being removed from office,

70.2.c

the litigation relates to the trustee’s opposing the reduction of the trust
deed and the trustee is unsuccessful in opposing the reduction,

70.2.d

the trustee has, by breach of duty, brought about the litigation,

70.2.e

the trustee is part of a minority of the body of trustees and that minority
has, in the name of the trust, pursued the litigation—

70.2.e.i

without consulting such of the other trustees as are both capable and
traceable, and

70.2.e.ii

unsuccessfully,

70.2.f

the trustee is part of a minority of the body of trustees and that minority
has, in the name of the trust, defended the litigation—

70.2.f.i

without consulting such of the other trustees as are both capable and
traceable, and

70.2.f.ii

without the defence being of any benefit to the trust, or

70.2.g

the trust property is (or is likely to be) insufficient to meet the expenses
incurred.

70.3

Where, by virtue of  subsection (2) (a)  to  (f) , a trustee is found
personally liable for the expenses of civil litigation to which the trust is
party, the court may allow the trustee relief against the trust property if
and in so far as the court considers it appropriate to do so.

70.4

Where a trust is party to an ongoing civil litigation the court may, on the
application of a party, make a determination about the personal liability (or
relief from such liability) of a trustee for expenses yet to be incurred.

70.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Expenses of application

71

71.1

Any question of expenses in relation to an application under this Act is to be
determined by the court.

71.2

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsection (1) , the court may, if it
considers it reasonable to do so, direct that any such expenses be paid out of
the trust property.

##### Miscellaneous powers

###### Authorisation to make payments on basis that an event has or has not occurred or will or will not occur

72

72.1

The court may, on the application of one or more of the trustees or of any
person with an interest in the trust property, grant an order authorising the
trustees to make payments from the trust property on the basis that an event
specified in the application—

72.1.a

has, or has not, occurred, or

72.1.b

will, or will not, occur.

72.2

An order under  subsection (1)  may be granted on such conditions as the court
thinks fit to impose.

72.3

Should it be found that the basis on which the order was granted was untrue, a
trustee who has acted in accordance with the order incurs no personal
liability unless, in connection with the making of the application—

72.3.a

some relevant fact was concealed from the court—

72.3.a.i

by the trustee, or

72.3.a.ii

by some other person and the trustee knew, or ought to have known, of the
concealment, or

72.3.b

there were fraudulent actings—

72.3.b.i

on the part of the trustee, or

72.3.b.ii

on the part of some other person and the trustee knew, or ought to have known,
of those actings and that they were fraudulent.

72.4

This section  is without prejudice to any right of a beneficiary to recover
trust property from a person to whom, by virtue of the order, a payment has
been made or from any successor of such a person.

72.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Completion of title by beneficiary

73

73.1

A beneficiary absolutely entitled to heritable or incorporeal moveable
property, title to which has been taken in the name of a trustee who has died
or become incapable without having executed a conveyance (or as the case may
be an assignation) of the property, may apply to the court for authority to
complete title to the property in the beneficiary’s own name.

73.2

The court may, on any such application, grant warrant for completing title to
the property.

73.3

Any such warrant is effectual as a conveyance (or as the case may be as an
assignation) of the property in favour of the beneficiary.

73.4

Reference in  subsections (1)  and  (3)  to a beneficiary includes reference
to any person deriving right from a beneficiary.

73.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Warrant to vest corporeal moveable property in beneficiary where trustee has died or become incapable

74

74.1

This section  applies where—

74.1.a

a trustee has died or become incapable vested in corporeal moveable property
to which a beneficiary is absolutely entitled, but

74.1.b

delivery of the property to, or possession of the property by, the beneficiary
is required for the property to vest in the beneficiary.

74.2

The court may, on the application of the beneficiary, grant warrant for the
property to vest in the beneficiary.

74.3

Any such warrant is effectual to vest the property in the beneficiary, as at
the date of the warrant, as if the beneficiary had taken delivery or
possession of the property on that date.

74.4

Reference in  subsections (1)  to  (3)  to a beneficiary includes reference to
any person deriving right from a beneficiary.

74.5

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

###### Superintendence order as to investment and distribution of trust property

75

75.1

The court may, on the application of one or more of the trustees, order the
accountant of court to superintend the trustees’ administration of the trust
insofar as that administration relates to—

75.1.a

the investment of trust property, and

75.1.b

the distribution of trust property among creditors and beneficiaries.

75.2

If the order (to be known as a “ superintendence order ”) is granted, the
accountant of court—

75.2.a

must, annually, examine and audit the trustees’ accounts, and

75.2.b

may report to the court, and obtain the court’s directions, on any question
which may arise with regard to the administration superintended.

75.3

This section  applies irrespective of when the trust was created.

### Succession

#### Effect of divorce, dissolution or annulment on special destination

##### Effect of divorce, dissolution or annulment on special destination

76

In section 2(2) of the Succession (Scotland) Act 2016 (effect of divorce,
dissolution or annulment on special destination), after “succession to” insert
“A’s interest in” .

#### Rights of succession to intestate estate

##### Rights of succession to intestate estate

77

77.1

In section 2(1) of the Succession (Scotland) Act 1964 (rights of succession to
intestate estate)—

77.1.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

77.1.a.ab

where an intestate is survived by a husband, wife or civil partner, but is not
survived by any prior relative, the surviving spouse or civil partner shall
have right to the whole of the intestate estate;

,

77.1.b

paragraph (e) is repealed.

77.2

This section does not apply as respects a death that occurred before the
section comes into force.

##### Application to court by survivor for provision on intestacy

78

In section 29(6) of the Family Law (Scotland) Act 2006 (application to court
by survivor for provision on intestacy), for “6” substitute  “12” .

### Miscellaneous and general

#### Miscellaneous

##### Amendment of Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995

79

79.1

In section 7(7) of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995
(subscription and signing), after “partnerships,” insert  “bodies of
trustees,” .

79.2

In schedule 2 of that Act (subscription and signing: special cases), after
paragraph 2 insert—

########### Trusts

79.2.2A

79.2.2A.1

Except where an enactment or the trust deed expressly provides otherwise,
where a granter of a document executed after the commencement of  section 79
of the Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 is a body of trustees, the
document is signed by that body if it is signed on the body’s behalf either by
a majority of the trustees or by a person (whether or not one of the trustees)
authorised to sign the document on the body’s behalf.

79.2.2A.2

Sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph applies in relation to the signing of an
alteration to a document as it applies in relation to the signing of a
document.

79.2.2A.3

In this paragraph, “ trust ” has the meaning assigned to that expression by
section 81 (1)  of that Act of 2024.

.

##### Amendment of Confirmation of Executors (Scotland) Act 1858

80

After section 6 of the Confirmation of Executors (Scotland) Act 1858, insert—

######### Restrictions on appointment of executor dative

80.6A

80.6A.1

This section applies where a sheriff is in receipt of a petition for the
appointment of a person (“ P ”) as an executor dative in respect of the estate
of a deceased person (“ D ”).

80.6A.2

The sheriff must refuse the petition if satisfied that P is a person falling
within subsection (3).

80.6A.3

A person falls within this subsection if that person—

80.6A.3.a

is being prosecuted in Scotland for the murder or culpable homicide of D,

80.6A.3.b

has been convicted, whether before or after the coming into force of this
section, in Scotland of such an offence as regards D,

80.6A.3.c

is being prosecuted in a jurisdiction outside Scotland for an offence which,
in the opinion of the sheriff, is equivalent to the murder or culpable
homicide of D, or

80.6A.3.d

has been convicted, whether before or after the coming into force of this
section, in a jurisdiction outside Scotland of such an offence as regards D.

80.6A.4

For the purposes of subsection (3), a person is to be regarded as being
prosecuted for an offence if—

80.6A.4.a

a prosecutor has initiated proceedings against the person in respect of the
offence, and

80.6A.4.b

those proceedings have not been dismissed or resulted in the conviction or
acquittal of the person in respect of the offence.

80.6A.5

If, despite subsection (1) or any rule of law to the contrary, a person
falling within subsection (3) is appointed as an executor dative in respect of
D’s estate—

80.6A.5.a

the person’s appointment as executor dative is not invalid by reason of the
fact that the person falls within subsection (3), but

80.6A.5.b

the appointment does not prevent the removal of that person from office
following the making of an application under section 7 of the Trusts and
Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 (as read with section 8 of that Act) on the
ground that the person is unfit to carry out the duties of a trustee.

80.6A.6

This section is without prejudice to any power of a sheriff to refuse a
petition for the appointment of P in any case where—

80.6A.6.a

P does not fall within subsection (3), but

80.6A.6.b

P—

80.6A.6.b.i

has acted (or is suspected of having acted) in a manner that caused or
contributed to the death of D, or

80.6A.6.b.ii

has otherwise been involved (or is suspected of having otherwise been
involved) in the death of D.

.

#### General

##### Interpretation

81

81.1

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

      “ beneficiary ”, in relation to a trust, means a person having, whether
directly or indirectly, a vested or contingent interest under the trust,
“ the court ” means the Court of Session except that in  sections 1 ,  7 ,  8
,  66 ,  67 ,  70 ,  71 ,  73  and  74  the expression includes the
appropriate sheriff court,           “ guardian ” includes a person’s
continuing attorney,           “ potential beneficiary ” means a person
(whether or not an ascertained person) who—         is not a beneficiary, but
may become a beneficiary on being, at a future date or on the happening of a
future event, a person of some specified description or a member of some
specified class of persons,                 “ private purpose trust ” is to be
construed in accordance with  section 46 ,           “ protector ” is to be
construed in accordance with  section 53 (1) (a) ,           “ supervisor ” is
to be construed in accordance with  section 49 (1) ,           “ trust ” means
any trust (whether or not constituted by deed or other writing, by or by
virtue of Act of Parliament or of the Scottish Parliament, by Royal Charter,
or by resolution of any corporation, public body or ecclesiastical body) but
does not include any pension scheme established under a trust,           “
trust deed ” means any—         deed or other writing,           enactment,
Royal Charter, or           resolution of any corporation, public body or
ecclesiastical body,         which constitutes any trust, and           “
trustee ” means a trustee under any trust but includes an executor nominate
and, except in  sections 3  and  5 , an executor dative.

81.2

In this Act, “ appropriate person ” means—

81.2.a

in relation to a beneficiary or, as the case may be, potential beneficiary,
who has not attained the age of 16 years—

81.2.a.i

a parent or guardian who has the parental responsibility or parental right to
act as that person’s legal representative under section 1(1)(d) or 2(1)(d) of
the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”),

81.2.a.ii

a person in whom that parental responsibility or parental right is vested by
virtue of section 11(2)(b) of the 1995 Act,

81.2.a.iii

a person having that parental responsibility or parental right by virtue of
section 11(12) of the 1995 Act,

81.2.a.iv

a person in whom that parental responsibility or parental right is vested by
virtue of a permanence order (as defined in section 80(2) of the Adoption and
Children (Scotland) Act 2007),

81.2.a.v

a parent or guardian who has the right, in relation to the beneficiary or
potential beneficiary, to act as that person’s legal representative, by virtue
of having parental responsibility for that person under Part 1 of the Children
Act 1989 (“ the 1989 Act ”),

81.2.a.vi

a person having that right, in relation to the beneficiary or potential
beneficiary, by virtue of having parental responsibility for that person by
virtue of—

81.2.a.vi.A

section 12(2) of the 1989 Act,

81.2.a.vi.B

section 14C of the 1989 Act, or

81.2.a.vi.C

section 25(3) of the Adoption and Children Act 2002,

81.2.a.vii

a parent or guardian who has that right, in relation to the beneficiary or
potential beneficiary, by virtue of having parental responsibility for that
person under Part 2 or Part 15 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (
S.I. 1995/755 ) (“ the 1995 Order ”),

81.2.a.viii

a person having that right, in relation to the beneficiary or potential
beneficiary, by virtue of having parental responsibility for that person under
Article 12(2) of the 1995 Order, or

81.2.b

in relation to a beneficiary or, as the case may be, potential beneficiary,
who is incapable, that person’s guardian.

81.3

In the definition of “the court” in  subsection (1) , “ the appropriate
sheriff court ” means—

81.3.a

where the sole trustee is, or a majority of the trustees are, habitually
resident in a particular sheriffdom—

81.3.a.i

a sheriff court of that sheriffdom, or

81.3.a.ii

where a majority of the trustees consent, a sheriff court of any other
sheriffdom in which at least one of the trustees is habitually resident, or

81.3.b

where  paragraph (a)  is not applicable, the sheriff court at Edinburgh.

81.4

In the definition of “guardian” in  subsection (1) , “ continuing attorney ”
is to be construed in accordance with section 15(2) of the Adults with
Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 (creation of continuing power of attorney).

##### Power to amend jurisdiction in relation to trusts

82

82.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision conferring on or
removing from the Court of Session or, as the case may be, the appropriate
sheriff court, power to decide particular types of cases relating to trusts
under this Act.

82.2

In particular, the Scottish Ministers may—

82.2.a

make provision modifying section 81 in so far as it relates to the definitions
of “the court” and “ the appropriate sheriff court ” for the purposes of this
Act, and

82.2.b

make such incidental, supplementary or consequential provision (including
provision modifying this Act or another enactment) relating to the
jurisdiction of the Court of Session or the appropriate sheriff court as they
consider appropriate for the purposes of giving full effect to the conferral
or removal of a power.

82.3

Regulations under this section may only be made with the consent of the Lord
President of the Court of Session.

82.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Meaning of incapable and related expressions

83

83.1

In this Act—

83.1.a

“ incapable ” (and related expressions) is to be construed in accordance with
section 1(6) of the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 (fundamental
definitions), but with the modification that the reference in the closing
words of that definition to any provision of that Act is to be read as to any
provision of this Act,

83.1.b

a reference to a person having legal capacity is a reference to a person who—

83.1.b.i

is not incapable, and

83.1.b.ii

does not otherwise lack legal capacity (for example, by reason of non-age).

83.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

83.2.a

make provision modifying the effect of the definition of “incapable” in the
Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 as it applies for the purposes of
this Act by virtue of this section, or

83.2.b

amend this section to replace or modify the definition of “ incapable ” for
the purposes of this Act.

83.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Persons who are untraceable

84

For the purposes of  sections 1 (1) (b) ,  2 (1) ,  5 (5) (a) (i) ,  7 (1) (e)
,  14 (2) (c) ,  44 (1) ,  49 (5) (b) ,  53 (3) (g) (v) ,  54 (1) (b) ,  59
(5) (e) ,  70 (2) (e) (i)  and  70 (2) (f) (i)  (and without prejudice to the
generality of those sections) a person is to be regarded as untraceable if—

84.a

the person has not been traced, and

84.b

in the case of—

84.b.i

section 1 (1) (b) ,  7 (1) (e) ,  49 (5) (b) ,  53 (3) (g) (v) ,  59 (5) (e) ,
70 (2) (e) (i)  or  70 (2) (f) (i)  the court is satisfied that reasonable
steps have been taken to trace the person,

84.b.ii

section 2 (1) , the truster is so satisfied,

84.b.iii

section 5 (5) (a) (i) ,  14 (2) (c)  or  44 (1) , every trustee who is both
capable and has been traced is so satisfied, or

84.b.iv

section 54 (1) (b) , the truster is so satisfied (or if the truster is not
alive or is not capable, every trustee who is both capable and has been traced
is so satisfied).

##### Modification of enactments

85

Schedule 1  makes provision for the modification of enactments.

##### Ancillary provision

86

86.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

86.2

Regulations under this section may—

86.2.a

make different provision for different purposes,

86.2.b

modify any enactment (including this Act).

86.3

Regulations under this section—

86.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act, and

86.3.b

are otherwise subject to the negative procedure.

##### Repeals

87

The enactments mentioned in  schedule 2  are repealed to the extent mentioned
in the second column of that schedule.

##### Commencement

88

88.1

This section  and sections  86  and  89  come into force on the day after
Royal Assent.

88.2

Sections 76  and  77  come into force at the end of the period of 3 months
beginning with the day of Royal Assent.

88.3

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

88.4

Regulations under  this section  may—

88.4.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

88.4.b

make different provision for different purposes.

##### Short title

89

The short title of this Act is the Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024.

  Modification of enactments

(introduced by  section 85 )

##### Titles to Land Consolidation (Scotland) Act 1868

1

In section 24 of the Titles to Land Consolidation (Scotland) Act 1868 (mode of
completing title by a judicial factor on a trust estate etc.), for “(Scotland)
Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Judicial Factors (Scotland) Act 1880

2

In section 4 of the Judicial Factors (Scotland) Act 1880 (sheriff empowered to
appoint judicial factors in small estates), in paragraph (1A)(a), for “have
the same meaning as in sections 22 to 24 of the Trusts (Scotland) Act 1921”
substitute  “be construed in accordance with  section 81 (3)  of the Trusts
and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 (taking any reference in  section 81 (3)
to a trustee to include a reference to a judicial factor)” .

##### National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act 1949

3

In section 16(5)(b) of the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act
1949 (agreements for management of nature reserves in Scotland and Wales)—

3.a

for “(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” ,
and

3.b

for “section 4 thereof (which relates to the general powers of trustees)”
substitute  “ Chapter 3  of  Part 1  of that Act (which relates to the powers
and duties of trustees)” .

##### Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953

4

In section 8(6) of the Historic Buildings and Ancient Monuments Act 1953
(power of Minister to accept endowments of historic buildings), for
“(Scotland) Act, 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1959

5

In section 54(6) of the Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1959
(interpretation), for “(Scotland) Act, 1921” substitute  “and Succession
(Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961

6

6.1

The Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 2 (validity of certain transactions by trustees), after subsection
(6) insert—

6.2.7

In this section, “ judicial factor ” means any person holding a judicial
appointment as a factor on another person’s estate.

.

6.3

In section 6(1) (interpretation), for “in the Act of 1921” substitute  “they
had in the Act of 1921 immediately before the repeal, by the Trusts and
Succession (Scotland) Act 2024, of the Act of 1921.” .

##### Trustee Investments Act 1961

7

7.1

The Trustee Investments Act 1961 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 3(3)(a)(i) (as it applies by virtue of paragraph 4(3) of schedule 3
of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005), for “(Scotland)
Act, 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

7.3

In section 6(7) (as it applies by virtue of paragraph 4(2) of schedule 3 of
the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005), omit “Without
prejudice to section eight of the Trustee Act, 1925, or section thirty of the
Trusts (Scotland) Act 1921 (which relate to valuation, and the proportion of
the value to be lent, where a trustee lends on the security of property)”.

7.4

In section 17(5) (short title, extent and construction), for “(Scotland) Act,
1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1963

8

8.1

The Land Compensation (Scotland) Act 1963 is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 45(5) (interpretation), for “has the same meaning as in the Trusts
(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and “trust” have the same meanings as in the
Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 except that in this subsection “
trustee ” includes a judicial factor and “ trust ” includes a judicial
factory.” .

8.3

In paragraph 7 of schedule 3 (as it applies by virtue of section 77 and
paragraph 2 of schedule 16 of the Planning and Compensation Act 1991), for
sub-paragraph (4) substitute—

8.3.4

In this paragraph, “ trustee ” and “ trust ” have the same meanings as in the
Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 except that in this paragraph “
trustee ” includes a judicial factor and “ trust ” includes a judicial
factory.

.

##### Countryside (Scotland) Act 1967

9

In section 49A(6) of the Countryside (Scotland) Act 1967 (management
agreements in relation to natural heritage)—

9.a

for “(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” ,
and

9.b

for “section 4 thereof (which relates to the general power of trustees)”
substitute  “ Chapter 3  of  Part 1  of that Act (which relates to the powers
and duties of trustees)” .

##### Agriculture Act 1970

10

In section 33(3) of the Agriculture Act 1970 (miscellaneous amendments
relating to amalgamations)—

10.a

for “(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” ,
and

10.b

for “section 4 thereof (which relates to the general powers of trustees)”
substitute  “ Chapter 3  of  Part 1  of that Act (which relates to the powers
and duties of trustees)” .

##### Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973

11

In section 15(1) of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973
(interpretation of Part 1 of the Act), in the definition of “trustee”, for
“(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978

12

In paragraph 5 of schedule 7 of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act
1978 (the Research Trust), for “subsection (1) of section 4 of the Trusts
(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “ Chapter 3  of  Part 1  of the Trusts and
Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979

13

In section 18(5) of the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979
(powers of limited owners for purposes of sections 12, 16 and 17 of that Act)—

13.a

for “(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” ,
and

13.b

for “section 4 of that Act (general powers of trustees)” substitute  “ Chapter
3  of  Part 1  of that Act (powers and duties of trustees)” .

##### Married Women’s Policies of Assurance (Scotland) (Amendment) Act 1980

14

14.1

The Married Women’s Policies of Assurance (Scotland) (Amendment) Act 1980 is
amended as follows.

14.2

In section 2(1)(a) (powers of trustee under policy), for “(Scotland) Act 1921”
substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

14.3

In section 4 (application of Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961)—

14.3.a

for “1 of the Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961” substitute  “ 59  of the Trusts and
Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” , and

14.3.b

for “the said section 1” substitute  “ section 59  of that Act of 2024” .

##### Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982

15

In schedule 8 of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 (rules as to
jurisdiction in Scotland), in rule 2(g), for “within the meaning of section
24A of the Trusts (Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “as defined in  section 81
(3)  of the Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991

16

In schedule 2 of the Coal Mining Subsidence Act 1991 (recipients of
depreciation payments: special cases), in paragraph 4(2)(a), for “(Scotland)
Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Age of Legal Capacity (Scotland) Act 1991

17

In section 1(3) of the Age of Legal Capacity (Scotland) Act 1991 (age of legal
capacity)—

17.a

after paragraph (d) insert—

17.a.da

confer on any person under the age of 18 years the legal capacity to give
agreement to an arrangement mentioned in  section 58 (1)  of the Trusts and
Succession (Scotland) Act 2024;

, and

17.b

in paragraph (f)(iii), for “1 of the Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961” substitute
“59(5) of the Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” .

##### Children (Scotland) Act 1995

18

In section 10 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 (obligations and rights of
person administering child’s property)—

18.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “Act” insert  “and to subsection (1A)” , and

18.b

after subsection (1) insert—

18.b.1A

Subsection (1)(b) confers no entitlement to give approval on a child’s behalf
to an arrangement to which  section 59  of the Trusts and Succession
(Scotland) Act 2024 applies.

.

##### National Parks (Scotland) Act 2000

19

In section 15(4) of the National Parks (Scotland) Act 2000 (management
agreements in relation to National Parks)—

19.a

for “(Scotland) Act  1921 (c.58) ” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act
2024” , and

19.b

for “section 4 of that Act (general powers of trustees)” substitute  “ Chapter
3  of  Part 1  of that Act (powers and duties of trustees)” .

##### Christmas Day and New Year’s Day Trading (Scotland) Act 2007

20

In section 7 of the Christmas Day and New Year’s Day Trading (Scotland) Act
2007 (interpretation), in the definition of “trustee”, for “section 2 of the
Trusts (Scotland) Act  1921 (c.58) ” substitute  “ section 81 (1)  of the
Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024 but includes a judicial factor” .

##### Public Appointments and Public Bodies etc. (Scotland) Act 2003

21

In section 7(1) of the Public Appointments and Public Bodies etc. (Scotland)
Act 2003 (investment and borrowing)—

21.a

in paragraph (a), for “section 4(1) of the Trusts (Scotland) Act  1921 (c.58)
” substitute  “ Chapter 3  of  Part 1  of the Trusts and Succession (Scotland)
Act 2024” , and

21.b

in paragraph (b)—

21.b.i

for “(Scotland) Act 1921” substitute  “and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024” ,

21.b.ii

after “the Trustee Investments Act  1961 (c.62) ” insert  “(as read with
paragraph 4(2) of schedule 3 of the Charities and Trustee Investment
(Scotland) Act 2005)” , and

21.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “that Act” insert  “(as read with the paragraph
4(2) mentioned above)” .

##### Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005

22

In section 34(6) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005
(powers of Court of Session), for “section 22 of the Trusts (Scotland) Act
1921 (c.58)  applies as if the trustee had been appointed under that section”
substitute  “the provisions of the Trusts and Succession (Scotland) Act 2024
apply as if the trustee had been appointed under  section 1 (1) (b)  of that
Act” .

  Repeals

(introduced by  section 87 )

    Enactment Extent of repeal   Powers of Appointment Act 1874 The whole Act.
Trusts (Scotland) Act 1921 The whole Act. Trusts (Scotland) Act 1961 Section
1. Except in so far as relating to judicial factors, section 2(1) and (2).
Sections 3 and 4. In section 6(1), the definition of “the court”. In section
7(1), the words “, and this Act and the Act of 1921 may be cited together as
the Trusts (Scotland) Acts 1921 and 1961”. Trustee Investments Act 1961 In
section 7(1), paragraph (a). Sections 10 and 14. Succession (Scotland) Act
1964 In section 20, the words “, and the Trusts (Scotland) Acts 1921 and 1961
shall have effect as if any reference therein to a trustee included a
reference to such an executor dative”. Age of Majority (Scotland) Act 1969 In
Part 1 of schedule 1, the entry relating to section 1(2) of the Trusts
(Scotland) Act 1961. Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland) Act 1980
Section 13. Law Reform (Parent and Child) (Scotland) Act 1986 In schedule 1,
paragraph 4. Age of Legal Capacity (Scotland) Act 1991 In schedule 1,
paragraphs 25 and 27. Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995 In schedule
4, paragraphs 29 and 30. Children (Scotland) Act 1995 In schedule 4, paragraph
6. Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 Sections 93 to 95. In
schedule 3, paragraphs 2 and 3. Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012 In
schedule 5, paragraph 8. Succession (Scotland) Act 2016 Section 23.

