Title: United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-07-11
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/1

## United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024

### The UNCRC requirements

#### Meaning of “the UNCRC requirements” and related expressions

##### Meaning of “the UNCRC requirements” and related expressions

1

1.1

In this Act—

“ the Convention ” means the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the
Child adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession by General
Assembly resolution 44/25 of 20 November 1989, “ the first optional protocol ”
means the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on
the involvement of children in armed conflict, “ the second optional protocol
” means the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on
the sale of children, child prostitution and child pornography.

1.2

In this Act, “ the UNCRC requirements ” means the rights and obligations from
the Convention, the first optional protocol and the second optional protocol
that are set out in the schedule.

1.3

The UNCRC requirements have effect for the purposes of this Act subject to any
reservations, objections or interpretative declarations by the United Kingdom
as may be in force from time to time.

##### Meaning of references to States Parties and related expressions in the UNCRC requirements

2

2.1

References in the UNCRC requirements to a State Party, States Parties and
related expressions are to be read for the purposes of this Act as set out in
subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

2.2

Unless subsection  (3)  applies—

2.2.a

a reference to a State Party is to be read as including reference to a public
authority, and

2.2.b

a reference to States Parties is to be read as including reference to public
authorities.

2.3

In the articles of the UNCRC requirements mentioned in column 1 of the
following table, references relating to a State Party, States Parties or (as
the case may be) related expressions are to be read as set out in column 2 of
the table.

Articles of the UNCRC requirements Modifications Article 2 of the Convention
In paragraph 1, the reference to “their jurisdiction” is to be read as
“Scotland”. The references to “States Parties” are to be read as “Any Scottish
public authority or cross-border public authority carrying out Scottish
functions other than any function that relates to the inclusion of persons in
non-executive posts on boards of Scottish public authorities with mixed
functions or no reserved functions”.  Article 7 of the Convention In paragraph
2, the reference to “their obligations” is to be read as a reference to “the
obligations of the United Kingdom”. Article 22 of the Convention In paragraph
1, the reference to “the said States are Parties” is to be read as “the United
Kingdom is a party”. Article 27 of the Convention In paragraph 4, the
reference to “the State Party” is to be read as “Scotland”. Article 38 of the
Convention In paragraph 1, the reference to “them” is to be read as a
reference to “the United Kingdom”. In paragraph 4, the reference to “their” is
to be read as a reference to “the United Kingdom’s”. Article 6 of the first
optional protocol In paragraph 1, the reference to “its jurisdiction” is to be
read as “Scotland”. In paragraph 3, the reference to “their jurisdiction” is
to be read as “Scotland”. Article 4 of the second optional protocol In
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3, each reference to “its territory” is to be read as
“Scotland”.

2.4

In the modifications relating to article 2 of the Convention in the table—

“ cross-border public authority ” has the meaning given in section 88(5) of
the Scotland Act 1998, “ non-executive post ” and “ Scottish functions ” have
the meaning given in Section L2 (equal opportunities) of Part 2 of schedule 5
of that Act, “ Scottish public authority ” has the meaning given in section
126(1) of that Act, “ Scottish public authorities with mixed functions or no
reserved functions ” has the meaning given in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part 3 of
schedule 5 of that Act.

##### Power to modify the schedule

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the schedule as they consider
appropriate to—

3.1.a

take account of an optional protocol to the Convention,

3.1.b

take account of an amendment to the Convention or to an optional protocol to
the Convention,

3.1.c

add provisions of the Convention, the first optional protocol or the second
optional protocol that are not for the time being set out in the schedule.

3.2

Regulations may be made under subsection  (1) (a)  only if the protocol is one
which the United Kingdom has ratified.

3.3

Regulations may be made under subsection  (1) (b)  only if the amendment is
one which is binding on the United Kingdom.

3.4

No modification may be made by regulations under subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)
so as to come into force before the protocol or amendment has entered into
force in relation to the United Kingdom.

3.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make such consequential modification to
sections  1 ,  4 ,  15  and  42  as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

3.6

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

3.6.a

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

3.6.b

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

3.6.c

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

3.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Interpretation of the UNCRC requirements

##### Interpretation of the UNCRC requirements

4

4.1

A court or tribunal which is determining a question in connection with the
UNCRC requirements which has arisen in proceedings before it may take into
account the things mentioned in subsection  (2)  so far as it is relevant to
the interpretation of the UNCRC requirements in those proceedings.

4.2

The things are—

4.2.a

provisions of Part 1 of the Convention, the first optional protocol and the
second optional protocol that are not for the time being set out in the
schedule,

4.2.b

the preambles to the Convention, the first optional protocol and the second
optional protocol,

4.2.c

General Comments (whenever prepared),

4.2.d

concluding observations (whenever made),

4.2.e

views and findings under the third optional protocol (whenever adopted),

4.2.f

recommendations following days of general discussion (whenever made),

4.2.g

other international law and comparative law.

4.3

In subsection (2)—

      “ concluding observations ” means suggestions and general
recommendations made by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the
Child under article 45, paragraph (d) of the Convention,           “ General
Comments ” means comments prepared by the United Nations Committee on the
Rights of the Child under rule 77 of its rules of procedure,           “
recommendations following days of general discussion ” means recommendations
made by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child following days
of general discussion under rule 79 of its rules of procedure,           “
views and findings under the third optional protocol ” means—         views
adopted by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child under
article 10, paragraph 5 of the third optional protocol, and
findings, comments and recommendations adopted by the United Nations Committee
on the Rights of the Child under article 13, paragraph 4 of the third optional
protocol.

4.4

In this section and section 5, “ the third optional protocol ” means the
Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on a
communications procedure.

##### Duty to modify section 


5

5.1

If the United Kingdom ratifies the third optional protocol, the Scottish
Ministers must by regulations modify section 4 as they consider appropriate to
take account of the third optional protocol.

5.2

No modification may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  so as to
come into force before the third optional protocol has entered into force in
relation to the United Kingdom.

5.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

### Duties on public authorities

#### Acts of public authorities to be compatible with the UNCRC requirements

##### Acts of public authorities to be compatible with the UNCRC requirements

6

6.1

It is unlawful (subject to  subsection (4) ) for a public authority to act, or
fail to act, in connection with a relevant function in a way which is
incompatible with the UNCRC requirements.

6.2

In  subsection (1) , a “ relevant function ” means a function that—

6.2.a

it is within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament to confer
on the authority, and

6.2.b

is conferred by—

6.2.b.i

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

6.2.b.ii

a Scottish statutory instrument originally made wholly under a relevant
enabling power,

6.2.b.iii

a provision in a Scottish statutory instrument originally made partly under a
relevant enabling power, provided that the provision itself was either—

6.2.b.iii.A

originally made under the relevant enabling power, or

6.2.b.iii.B

inserted into the instrument by an Act of the Scottish Parliament or
subordinate legislation made under a relevant enabling power, or

6.2.b.iv

a rule of law not created by an enactment.

6.3

In  subsection (2) , “ relevant enabling power ” means a power to make
subordinate legislation conferred by a provision in an enactment of a kind
mentioned in that subsection, unless the provision was inserted by an
enactment of a kind that is not mentioned in that subsection.

6.4

But  subsection (1)  does not make unlawful doing or failing to do something
if the authority was required or entitled to act in that way by words that—

6.4.a

are not contained in an enactment of a kind mentioned in  subsection (2) (b) ,
or

6.4.b

are contained in such an enactment having been inserted into it by an
enactment of a kind that is not mentioned in  subsection (2) (b) .

6.5

In this section, “public authority”—

6.5.a

includes, in particular—

6.5.a.i

the Scottish Ministers,

6.5.a.ii

a court or tribunal,

6.5.a.iii

any person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature (but
see subsection  (8) ),

6.5.b

does not include the Scottish Parliament or a person carrying out functions in
connection with proceedings in the Scottish Parliament.

6.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) (a) (iii) , “ functions of a public nature
” includes, in particular, functions carried out under a contract or other
arrangement with a public authority.

6.7

Functions are not excluded from being functions of a public nature for the
purposes of subsection  (5) (a) (iii)  solely because they are not publicly
funded.

6.8

In relation to a particular act, a person is not a public authority by virtue
only of subsection  (5) (a) (iii)  if the nature of the act is private.

#### Remedies for unlawful acts

##### Proceedings for unlawful acts

7

7.1

A person who claims that a public authority has acted (or proposes to act) in
a way which is made unlawful by section  6 (1)  may—

7.1.a

bring proceedings against the authority under this Act in any civil court or
tribunal which has jurisdiction to grant the remedy sought, or

7.1.b

rely on the UNCRC requirements concerned in any legal proceedings.

7.2

In subsection  (1) (a) , proceedings against an authority include a
counterclaim or similar proceeding.

7.3

In subsection  (1) (b) , “ legal proceedings ” includes—

7.3.a

proceedings brought by or at the instigation of a public authority, and

7.3.b

an appeal against the decision of a court or tribunal.

7.4

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to an act which took place before this section
comes into force but paragraph  (b)  of that subsection applies to proceedings
brought by or at the instigation of a public authority whenever the act took
place.

7.5

The Scottish Ministers must, if they consider it necessary to ensure that a
particular tribunal can provide an appropriate remedy in relation to an act
(or proposed act) of a public authority which is (or would be) unlawful as a
result of section  6 (1) , bring forward regulations to add to—

7.5.a

the relief or remedies which the tribunal may grant,

7.5.b

the grounds on which it may grant any of them, or

7.5.c

the orders it may make.

7.6

In subsection (5), “ bring forward regulations ” means lay before the Scottish
Parliament for approval a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations to make the provision they consider necessary.

7.7

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (5) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult—

7.7.a

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

7.7.b

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

7.7.c

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

7.8

Regulations under subsection  (5)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

7.9

Proceedings under subsection  (1) (a)  must be brought before the end of the
period of 1 year beginning with the day on which the act complained of took
place.

7.10

But subsection  (9)  is subject to any rule in relation to any procedure which
imposes a stricter time limit in relation to that procedure.

7.11

In calculating the period of 1 year in subsection  (9) , any time during which
the person by or on whose behalf the proceedings are brought was under the age
of 18 is to be disregarded.

7.12

Where a person would be entitled, but for subsection  (9) , to bring
proceedings under subsection  (1) (a) , the court or tribunal may, if it
considers it equitable to do so, allow the person to bring the action despite
subsection  (9) .

7.13

In section 27A of the Court of Session Act 1988 (time limits), after
subsection (1) add—

7.13.1A

To the extent that an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court
is in respect of proceedings under section  7 (1) (a)  of the United Nations
Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024, in
calculating the period of 3 months in subsection (1)(a), any time during which
the person by or on whose behalf the application was made was under the age of
18 is to be disregarded.

.

##### Judicial remedies

8

8.1

In relation to any act (or proposed act) of a public authority which the court
or tribunal finds is (or would be) unlawful under section  6 (1) , it may
grant such relief or remedy, or make such order, within its powers as it
considers effective, just and appropriate.

8.2

But damages for an unlawful act of a public authority may be awarded only by a
court or tribunal which has power to award damages in civil proceedings.

8.3

In considering—

8.3.a

whether to award damages, or

8.3.b

the amount of any award of damages,

the court or tribunal must consider whether the award of damages and (if any)
the amount of any award of damages is necessary to provide just satisfaction
to the person to whom the award is made.

8.4

A public authority against which damages are awarded is to be treated for the
purpose of section 3 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) (Scotland)
Act 1940 as if the award were made in an action of damages in which the
authority has been found liable in respect of loss or damage to the person to
whom the award is made.

8.5

In proceedings brought or intervened in by the Commissioner for Children and
Young People in Scotland or the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, no award
of damages is to be made to the Commissioner or the Scottish Commission for
Human Rights.

8.6

Section 288BZA of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 modifies the
court’s power under subsection (1) in relation to certain UNCRC compatibility
issues in criminal proceedings.

##### Child’s view on effectiveness of reliefs etc.

9

9.1

Where a court or tribunal is considering what relief or remedy to grant or
what order to make under section  8 (1) —

9.1.a

it must, in so far as it is practicable to do so, give the child to whom the
proceedings relate an opportunity to express the child’s views about the
effectiveness of that relief, remedy or (as the case may be) order in—

9.1.a.i

the manner that the child prefers, or

9.1.a.ii

a manner that is suitable to the child if the child has not indicated a
preference or it would not be reasonable in the circumstances to accommodate
the child’s preference, and

9.1.b

it must have regard to any views expressed by the child, taking into account
the child’s age and maturity.

9.2

But the court or tribunal is not required to comply with subsection  (1)  if
it is satisfied that the child is not capable of forming a view.

9.3

The child is to be presumed to be capable of forming a view unless the
contrary is shown.

##### Restriction on proceedings in respect of judicial acts

10

10.1

Proceedings under section  7 (1) (a)  in respect of a judicial act may be
brought only—

10.1.a

by exercising a right of appeal,

10.1.b

on an application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of Session, or

10.1.c

in a case where proceedings in respect of the judicial act could not be
brought under paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , in the Court of Session.

10.2

Subsection  (1)  does not affect any enactment or rule of law which prevents a
court or tribunal from being subject to the supervisory jurisdiction of the
Court of Session.

10.3

In proceedings under this Act, damages may not be awarded in respect of a
judicial act done in good faith.

10.4

In this section, “ judicial act ” means a judicial act of a court or tribunal
and includes an act done on the instructions, or on behalf, of a judge or a
member of a tribunal.

#### Power for Commissioner to bring or intervene in proceedings

##### Power for Commissioner to bring or intervene in proceedings

11

11.1

The Commissioner for Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2003 is amended
as follows.

11.2

In section 4 (promoting and safeguarding rights), after subsection (2) insert—

11.2.2A

In exercising that general function the Commissioner may—

11.2.2A.a

bring proceedings under section  7 (1) (a)  of the United Nations Convention
on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024,

11.2.2A.b

intervene in proceedings in which a person claims that a public authority has
acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section  6 (1)
of that Act.

.

#### Power for Scottish Commission for Human Rights to bring or intervene in proceedings

##### Power for Scottish Commission for Human Rights to bring or intervene in proceedings

12

12.1

The Scottish Commission for Human Rights Act 2006 is amended as follows.

12.2

After section 4 insert—

########### Proceedings under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024

12.2.4A

For the purposes of its general duty, the Commission may—

12.2.4A.a

bring proceedings under section  7 (1) (a)  of the United Nations Convention
on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024,

12.2.4A.b

intervene in proceedings in which a person claims that a public authority has
acted (or proposes to act) in a way which is made unlawful by section  6 (1)
of that Act.

.

12.3

In section 6 (no power to assist in claims or legal proceedings), after
subsection (2) insert—

12.3.2A

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply to proceedings brought or intervened in
by the Commission under section 4A.

.

#### Guidance on this Part

##### Guidance on this Part

13

13.1

The Scottish Ministers must issue guidance to support the implementation and
operation of this Part.

13.2

Guidance may, in particular—

13.2.a

promote understanding of this Part,

13.2.b

promote child rights-respecting practice in relation to the implementation and
operation of this Part,

13.2.c

include information about how the implementation and operation of this Part
can secure better or further effect of the rights of children,

13.2.d

include information to support public authorities and others in working
together in the implementation and operation of this Part.

13.3

Before issuing guidance under subsection  (1) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

13.3.a

children,

13.3.b

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

13.3.c

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

13.3.d

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

13.4

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after issuing guidance
under subsection  (1) , publish the guidance in such manner as they consider
appropriate.

13.5

The Scottish Ministers must from time to time review guidance issued under
subsection  (1)  and may revise the guidance.

13.6

References in subsections  (2)  to  (5)  to guidance include references to
revised guidance.

### Children’s rights scheme, child rights and wellbeing impact assessments and reporting duties

#### Children’s Rights Scheme

##### Children’s Rights Scheme

14

14.1

The Scottish Ministers must make a scheme setting out the arrangements that
are in place, or are to be put in place by the Scottish Ministers—

14.1.a

to ensure that they comply with the duty under  section 6 (1) , and

14.1.b

to secure better or further effect of the rights of children.

14.2

The scheme under  subsection (1)  is to be known as the Children’s Rights
Scheme (and is referred to in this Act as “ the Scheme ”).

14.3

The Scheme must, in particular, include arrangements for the Scottish
Ministers to—

14.3.a

ensure that children are able to participate in the making of decisions that
affect them with access to such support and representation (for example from
children’s advocacy services) as they require to do so,

14.3.b

identify and address any situation where a child’s rights are (or are at a
significant risk of) not being fulfilled,

14.3.c

raise awareness of and promote the rights of children,

14.3.d

promote complaints handling procedures that children can understand and use,

14.3.e

ensure that children have effective access to justice,

14.3.f

protect the rights of children in relation to their interactions with persons,
other than public authorities, who provide services which affect children,

14.3.g

consider the rights of children in the Scottish Government’s budget process,

14.3.h

ensure that their actions contribute to any national outcome for children
determined by them under Part 1 of the Community Empowerment (Scotland) Act
2015,

14.3.i

prepare and publish child rights and wellbeing impact assessments (see
section 17 ),

14.3.j

use, and promote the use of, inclusive ways of communicating that ensure that
children are able to receive information and express themselves in ways that
best meet their needs (in relation to speech, language or otherwise).

14.4

The first Scheme made under  this section  must—

14.4.a

specify the date by which the first report on its operation is to be published
and laid before the Scottish Parliament under  section 16 , and

14.4.b

include any actions that the Scottish Ministers are to take in respect of the
Scheme during the period beginning with the date on which the Scheme is made
and ending on the date that the first report on its operation is to be
published.

14.5

The Scottish Ministers may amend the Scheme or make a new scheme to replace it
at any time (and references in this Act to the Scheme include the Scheme as
amended or replaced).

14.6

Section 15  sets out the procedure that the Scottish Ministers must follow to
make, amend or remake the Scheme.

14.7

In  this Part , “ children ” means persons under the age of 18.

##### Procedure for making, amending and remaking the Scheme

15

15.1

In  this section , a reference to the proposal is a reference to (as the case
may be) a proposal to—

15.1.a

make the first scheme under  section 14 (1) ,

15.1.b

amend the Scheme, or

15.1.c

make a new scheme to replace the Scheme.

15.2

In preparing the proposal, the Scottish Ministers—

15.2.a

must have regard to—

15.2.a.i

any report of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child under
paragraph 5 of article 44 of the Convention that the Scottish Ministers
consider to be relevant, and

15.2.a.ii

any other reports, suggestions, general recommendations or other documents
issued by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child relating to
the implementation of the Convention, the first optional protocol or the
second optional protocol by the United Kingdom that the Scottish Ministers
consider to be relevant,

15.2.b

may have regard to any international law or comparative law that they consider
to be relevant, and

15.2.c

may have regard to any other document or matter that they consider to be
relevant.

15.3

The Scottish Ministers must publish the proposal and consult—

15.3.a

children,

15.3.b

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

15.3.c

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

15.3.d

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

15.4

The Scottish Ministers may make such changes to the proposal as they consider
appropriate following the consultation under  subsection (3) .

15.5

The Scottish Ministers may not—

15.5.a

make the Scheme,

15.5.b

make an amendment to the Scheme, or

15.5.c

make a new scheme to replace the Scheme,

until the proposal has been laid before the Scottish Parliament.

15.6

A proposal may not be laid before the Scottish Parliament under  subsection
(5)  unless a period of at least 28 days, beginning with the day on which the
proposal was published under  subsection (3) , has elapsed.

15.7

The Scottish Ministers must publish the Scheme, the Scheme as amended or (as
the case may be) the Scheme as remade in such manner as they consider
appropriate.

15.8

It is immaterial that anything done by way of preparation of, or consultation
in relation to, the first scheme under  this section  was done—

15.8.a

before the Bill for this Act was passed, or

15.8.b

after that but before  this section  comes into force.

##### Reviewing and reporting on the Scheme

16

16.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
reporting period—

16.1.a

review the Scheme and its operation, and

16.1.b

publish a report of their findings.

16.2

In reviewing the Scheme, the Scottish Ministers—

16.2.a

must take into account the following things if they have occurred in the
reporting period—

16.2.a.i

the Committee making a suggestion or general recommendation under article
45(d) of the Convention based on a report submitted by the United Kingdom
under paragraph 1(b) of article 44 of the Convention,

16.2.a.ii

an amendment to the Convention or to an optional protocol to the Convention
entering into force,

16.2.a.iii

the Committee making a General Comment,

16.2.a.iv

the Committee adopting views and findings under the third optional protocol,

16.2.a.v

the Committee making recommendations following days of general discussion,

16.2.a.vi

the United Kingdom ratifying a protocol to the Convention,

16.2.a.vii

a court making a strike down declarator or an incompatibility declarator, and

16.2.b

may take into account any international law or comparative law that they
consider to be relevant,

16.2.c

may take into account any other document or matter that they consider to be
relevant.

16.3

A report under  subsection (1)  must include—

16.3.a

a summary of the actions taken by the Scottish Ministers for the purpose of—

16.3.a.i

ensuring compliance with the duty under  section 6 (1)  during the reporting
period, and

16.3.a.ii

securing better or further effect of the rights of children,

16.3.b

a statement as to whether or not they intend to amend the Scheme or make a new
scheme to replace it in light of the findings of their review, and

16.3.c

a summary of any actions that they intend to take in the next reporting
period.

16.4

A report under  subsection (1)  may include such other material as the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate, whether relating to the operation of
the Scheme or to the rights of children generally.

16.5

Before publishing a report under  this section , the Scottish Ministers must
consult the following in relation to the action to be taken in pursuance of
subsection (3) (c) —

16.5.a

children,

16.5.b

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

16.5.c

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

16.5.d

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

16.6

Each report published under  this section  must be—

16.6.a

accompanied by a version of the report that children can understand,

16.6.b

published in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate,

16.6.c

laid before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable after it is
published.

16.7

In  this section —

      “ General Comment ” means a comment prepared by the Committee under rule
77 of its rules of procedure,           “ recommendations following days of
general discussion ” means recommendations made by the Committee following
days of general discussion under rule 79 of its rules of procedure,
“ reporting period ” means—         the period beginning with the date on
which the Scheme is made and ending on the date specified for such a report in
the Scheme (see  section 14 (4) ), and           each subsequent period of a
year,                 “ the Committee ” means the United Nations Committee on
the Rights of the Child,           “ views and findings under the third
optional protocol ” means—         views adopted by the Committee under
article 10, paragraph 5 of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the
Rights of the Child on a communications procedure, and           findings,
comments and recommendations adopted by the Committee under article 13,
paragraph 4 of that Protocol.

#### Child rights and wellbeing impact assessments

##### Child rights and wellbeing impact assessments

17

17.1

A child rights and wellbeing impact assessment is an assessment of the likely
effects (if any) of a legislative provision on, or decision of a strategic
nature relating to, the rights and wellbeing of children.

17.2

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish a child rights and wellbeing
impact assessment in relation to the following legislative provisions—

17.2.a

a Bill for an Act of the Scottish Parliament that the Scottish Ministers
intend to introduce in the Scottish Parliament,

17.2.b

a Scottish statutory instrument made by the Scottish Ministers other than one
which brings a provision of an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an Act of
Parliament into force.

17.3

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish a child rights and wellbeing
impact assessment in relation to decisions of a strategic nature relating to
the rights and wellbeing of children as required by, and in accordance with,
the arrangements set out in the Scheme.

17.4

Without prejudice to the generality of  subsection (3) , the Scottish
Ministers must prepare and publish a child rights and wellbeing impact
assessment in relation to—

17.4.a

any decision by the Scottish Ministers to restrict, for a reason relating to
coronavirus, the delivery in person of education provision to children at
schools,

17.4.b

any strategy, policy or criteria of the Scottish Ministers that is to be
applied by an education authority in making a decision temporarily to remove
or restrict the delivery in person of education provision to children at
schools under the education authority’s management, regardless of the reason
for the decision.

17.5

For the purposes of  subsection (4) —

      “ coronavirus ” means severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
(SARS-CoV-2),           a reference to the “ delivery in person ” of education
is a reference to a child’s attendance in person at the child’s usual school,
“ school ” has the meaning given by section 135(1) of the Education (Scotland)
Act 1980.

#### Reporting duty of listed authorities

##### Reporting duty of listed authorities

18

18.1

A listed authority must, as soon as practicable after the end of each
reporting period, publish a report on—

18.1.a

the actions it has taken during the period—

18.1.a.i

for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the duty under  section 6 (1) ,
and

18.1.a.ii

to secure better or further effect of the rights of children, and

18.1.b

the actions that it intends to take during the next reporting period—

18.1.b.i

for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the duty under  section 6 (1) ,
and

18.1.b.ii

to secure better or further effect of the rights of children.

18.2

Two or more listed authorities may satisfy  subsection (1)  by publishing a
report prepared by them jointly.

18.3

Reports under  this section  must be published in such manner as the listed
authority (or authorities) considers appropriate.

18.4

A report published under this section must be accompanied by a version of the
report that children can understand.

18.5

A listed authority (or, where two or more authorities have prepared a report
jointly, either or any of them) must, as soon as practicable after publishing
a report under this section, send a copy of it to the Scottish Ministers.

18.6

In  this section —

      “ listed authority ” means an authority listed in  section 19 ,
“ reporting period ” means—         the period beginning with the day on which
this section comes into force and ending on 31 March 2026, and           each
subsequent period of 3 years.

##### Listed authorities

19

19.1

For the purposes of  section 18 (1) , the listed authorities are—

19.1.a

a local authority,

19.1.b

Children’s Hearings Scotland,

19.1.c

the Scottish Children’s Reporter Administration,

19.1.d

a health board constituted under section 2(1)(a) of the National Health
Service (Scotland) Act 1978,

19.1.e

a special health board constituted under section 2(1)(b) of the National
Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978,

19.1.f

Healthcare Improvement Scotland,

19.1.g

the Scottish Qualifications Authority,

19.1.h

the Skills Development Scotland Co. Limited (registered number SC202659),

19.1.i

Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland,

19.1.j

the Scottish Social Services Council,

19.1.k

the Scottish Sports Council,

19.1.l

the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland,

19.1.m

the Scottish Police Authority,

19.1.n

the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service,

19.1.o

the Scottish Legal Aid Board,

19.1.p

the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service,

19.1.q

the Mental Welfare Commission for Scotland,

19.1.r

the Scottish Housing Regulator,

19.1.s

Bòrd na Gàidhlig,

19.1.t

Creative Scotland,

19.1.u

an integration joint board to which functions in relation to persons under the
age of 18 are delegated in pursuance of an integration scheme prepared under
section 1 or 2 of the Public Bodies (Joint Working) (Scotland) Act 2014,

19.1.v

ILF Scotland.

19.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  subsection (1)  by—

19.2.a

adding a public authority or a description of public authorities as a listed
authority (or authorities),

19.2.b

removing a listed authority (or authorities), or

19.2.c

amending an entry for a listed authority (or authorities).

19.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

19.4

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b)  before the Scottish
Parliament, the Scottish Ministers must consult—

19.4.a

the public authority concerned or (as the case may be) the public authorities
falling within the description of public authorities concerned, and

19.4.b

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

##### Guidance on 

20

20.1

The Scottish Ministers must issue guidance about the carrying out of listed
authorities’ functions under  section 18 .

20.2

Before issuing guidance under subsection  (1) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

20.2.a

children,

20.2.b

the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland,

20.2.c

the Scottish Commission for Human Rights, and

20.2.d

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

20.3

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after issuing guidance
under subsection  (1) , publish the guidance in such manner as they consider
appropriate.

20.4

The Scottish Ministers must from time to time review guidance issued under
subsection  (1)  and may revise the guidance.

20.5

References in subsections  (2)  to  (4)  to guidance include references to
revised guidance.

#### Reporting duty of the Scottish Parliament

##### Reporting duty of the Scottish Parliament

21

21.1

The Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body must publish a report about the
matters set out in subsection  (2) .

21.2

Those matters are—

21.2.a

the actions taken by the Parliament and its committees to secure better or
further effect of the rights of children during the period covered by the
report,

21.2.b

the actions they intend to take to secure better or further effect of the
rights of children during the next period.

21.3

The first report under this section is to be published no later than 12 months
after the day on which this section comes into force.

21.4

The second and subsequent reports under this section are to be published no
later than 12 months after the publication of the previous report.

21.5

Reports under this section are to be—

21.5.a

published in such manner as the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body
considers appropriate, and

21.5.b

accompanied by a version of the report that children can understand.

#### Consequential amendments

##### Consequential amendments of Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014

22

22.1

The Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

22.2

Part 1 (rights of children) and schedule 1 are repealed.

22.3

In section 99(2) (subordinate legislation), the words “section 3(2)” are
repealed.

### Legislation and the UNCRC requirements

#### Statements of compatibility in relation to legislation

23

23.1

A member of the Scottish Parliament introducing a Public Bill in the
Parliament must, on or before introduction of the Bill, make a statement in
writing about the extent to which, in the member’s view, the provisions of the
Bill would be compatible with the UNCRC requirements.

23.2

The Scottish Ministers must make a statement in writing about the extent to
which, in their view, the provisions of a relevant instrument are or (as the
case may be) would be compatible with the UNCRC requirements.

23.3

In subsection  (2) , a “ relevant instrument ” means a Scottish statutory
instrument made by the Scottish Ministers other than one which brings a
provision of an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an Act of Parliament into
force.

#### Interpretation of legislation

24

24.1

So far as it is possible to do so, the following must be read and given effect
in a way which is compatible with the UNCRC requirements—

24.1.a

words in an Act of the Scottish Parliament to which section 29 applies,

24.1.b

words in subordinate legislation to which section 30 applies.

24.2

Subsection  (1)  does not affect—

24.2.a

the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible Act of
the Scottish Parliament,

24.2.b

the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of any incompatible
subordinate legislation made by virtue of an Act of the Scottish Parliament if
(disregarding any possibility of revocation) the Act or words in another
enactment to which neither section 29 nor 30 apply prevents removal of the
incompatibility.

#### Strike down declarators

25

25.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in any proceedings in which a court determines
whether any of the following give rise to an incompatibility with the UNCRC
requirements—

25.1.a

words—

25.1.a.i

that are in a pre-commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament, and

25.1.a.ii

to which section  29  applies, or

25.1.b

words—

25.1.b.i

that are in subordinate legislation made by virtue of a pre-commencement Act
of the Scottish Parliament, and

25.1.b.ii

to which section  30  applies.

25.2

If the court is satisfied that the words give rise to an incompatibility with
the UNCRC requirements, it may make a declarator stating that they cease to be
law to the extent that they give rise to the incompatibility (a “strike down
declarator”).

25.3

Where the incompatible words are in subordinate legislation made by virtue of
a pre-commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament, the court—

25.3.a

may make a strike down declarator in relation to them only if the court is
satisfied that (disregarding any possibility of revocation) the Act prevents
removal of the incompatibility,

25.3.b

may not make a strike down declarator in relation to them if the court is
satisfied that (disregarding any possibility of revocation) words in another
enactment to which neither section  29  nor  30  apply prevent removal of the
incompatibility.

25.4

A strike down declarator has effect only from the date of the declarator and
does not affect anything previously done.

25.5

The court may make an order suspending the effect of a strike down declarator
for any period and on any conditions to allow the incompatibility to be
remedied.

25.6

In deciding whether to make an order under subsection  (5) , the court must
(among other things) have regard to the extent to which persons who are not
parties to the proceedings would be adversely affected.

25.7

Where a court is considering whether to make an order under subsection  (5) ,
intimation of that is to be given to the Lord Advocate (unless the Lord
Advocate is a party to the proceedings).

25.8

The Lord Advocate may, on giving notice, take part as a party in the
proceedings so far as the proceedings relate to the making of the order.

25.9

Where the determination mentioned in subsection  (1)  is a decision by the
Supreme Court in relation to a UNCRC compatibility issue, the power to make an
order under subsection  (5)  is exercisable by the High Court of Justiciary
instead of the Supreme Court.

25.10

In this section, a reference to a pre-commencement Act of the Scottish
Parliament—

25.10.a

means an Act of the Scottish Parliament the Bill for which received Royal
Assent before the day on which this section comes into force, and

25.10.b

refers to such an Act as at the day on which this section comes into force.

25.11

In this section and section  26 , “ court ” means—

25.11.a

the Supreme Court,

25.11.b

the High Court of Justiciary sitting otherwise than as a trial court,

25.11.c

the Court of Session.

#### Incompatibility declarators

26

26.1

Subsection  (2)  applies in any proceedings in which a court determines
whether any of the following give rise to an incompatibility with the UNCRC
requirements—

26.1.a

words—

26.1.a.i

that are in a post-commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament, and

26.1.a.ii

to which section  29  applies,

26.1.b

words—

26.1.b.i

that are in a pre-commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament, having been
inserted on or after the day section 25 comes into force, and

26.1.b.ii

to which section  29  applies,

26.1.c

words—

26.1.c.i

that are in subordinate legislation made by virtue of a post-commencement Act
of the Scottish Parliament, and

26.1.c.ii

to which section  30  applies,

26.1.d

words—

26.1.d.i

that are in subordinate legislation made by virtue of a provision that was
inserted, on or after the day section  25  comes into force, into a pre-
commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament, and

26.1.d.ii

to which section  30  applies.

26.2

If the court is satisfied that the words give rise to an incompatibility with
the UNCRC requirements, it may make a declarator stating that incompatibility
(an “incompatibility declarator”).

26.3

Where the incompatible words are in subordinate legislation, the court—

26.3.a

may make an incompatibility declarator in relation to the subordinate
legislation only if the court is satisfied that (disregarding any possibility
of revocation) the enactment by virtue of which the subordinate legislation is
made prevents removal of the incompatibility,

26.3.b

may not make an incompatibility declarator in relation to the subordinate
legislation if the court is satisfied that (disregarding any possibility of
revocation) words in another enactment to which neither section  29  nor  30
apply prevent removal of the incompatibility.

26.4

An incompatibility declarator—

26.4.a

does not affect the validity, continuing operation or enforcement of the words
in respect of which it is made, and

26.4.b

is not binding on the parties to the proceedings in which it is made.

26.5

In this section—

      a “ post-commencement Act of the Scottish Parliament ” means an Act of
the Scottish Parliament the Bill for which received Royal Assent on or after
the day on which this section comes into force,           “ pre-commencement
Act of the Scottish Parliament ” has the meaning given in section  25 (10) (a)
.

#### Power to intervene in proceedings where strike down declarator or incompatibility declarator is being considered

27

27.1

Where a court is considering whether to make a strike down declarator or an
incompatibility declarator, intimation of that is to be given to the Lord
Advocate, the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland and the
Scottish Commission for Human Rights (unless the person to whom the intimation
would be given is a party to the proceedings).

27.2

A person to whom intimation is given under subsection  (1)  may, on giving
notice, take part as a party to the proceedings so far as the proceedings
relate to the making of a strike down declarator or an incompatibility
declarator.

#### Ministerial action following strike down declarator or incompatibility declarator

28

28.1

If a court makes a strike down declarator or an incompatibility declarator,
the Scottish Ministers must, within the period of 6 months beginning with the
day after the day on which the declarator is made—

28.1.a

prepare a report setting out what steps (if any) they intend to take in
response to the declarator,

28.1.b

publish the report in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate,

28.1.c

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament, and

28.1.d

seek to make a statement to the Scottish Parliament on the contents of the
report.

28.2

A report published under subsection  (1) (b)  must be accompanied by a version
of the report that children can understand.

#### Primary legislation words to which this Part applies

29

The words to which this section applies are words that are—

29.a

in an Act of the Scottish Parliament, and

29.b

in the Act as a result of having been—

29.b.i

contained in the Bill for the Act,

29.b.ii

contained, as part of an amending provision, in the Bill for another Act of
the Scottish Parliament, or

29.b.iii

inserted by words in subordinate legislation to which section  30  applies.

#### Subordinate legislation words to which this Part applies

30

30.1

The words to which this section applies are words that are—

30.1.a

in a Scottish statutory instrument originally made, wholly or partly, by
virtue of a relevant enabling power, and

30.1.b

in the instrument as a result of—

30.1.b.i

the exercise of a relevant enabling power (either to make the provision
containing the words, or to make the amending provision that inserted them),
or

30.1.b.ii

having been inserted into the instrument by words in an Act of the Scottish
Parliament to which section  29  applies.

30.2

In this section, “ relevant enabling power ” means a power conferred by a
provision that is not in, or derived (directly or indirectly) from, an Act of
Parliament.

30.3

For the purposes of subsection (2), a provision of an Act of the Scottish
Parliament is not to be regarded as derived from section 28 of the Scotland
Act 1998.

### Compatibility questions and UNCRC compatibility issues

#### Meaning of “compatibility question”

31

31.1

In sections  33  to  44 , a “ compatibility question ” means—

31.1.a

a question whether words in an enactment to which section  29  or  30  applies
give rise to an incompatibility with the UNCRC requirements,

31.1.b

a question whether a public authority has acted (or proposed to act) in a way
which is made unlawful by section  6 (1) .

31.2

But a question arising in criminal proceedings that would, apart from this
subsection, be a compatibility question is not a compatibility question if it
is a UNCRC compatibility issue.

31.3

A compatibility question is not to be taken to arise in any proceedings merely
because of any contention of a party to the proceedings which appears to the
court or tribunal before which the proceedings take place to be frivolous or
vexatious.

31.4

Any duty or power conferred by this Act to refer a compatibility question to a
court is to be read as a duty or (as the case may be) power to refer the issue
to the court for decision.

#### UNCRC compatibility issues in criminal proceedings

32

32.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 is modified as follows.

32.2

In the heading before section 288ZA, for “and devolution issues” substitute
“, devolution issues and UNCRC compatibility issues” .

32.3

After section 288AA, insert—

########## References of UNCRC compatibility issues to the High Court or Supreme Court

32.3.288AB

32.3.288AB.1

In this section and section 288AC, “ UNCRC compatibility issue ” means a
question, arising in criminal proceedings as to—

32.3.288AB.1.a

whether words in an enactment to which section  29  or  30  of the UNCRC
Incorporation Act applies give rise to an incompatibility with the UNCRC
requirements,

32.3.288AB.1.b

whether a public authority has acted (or proposed to act) in a way which is
made unlawful by section  6 (1)  of the UNCRC Incorporation Act.

32.3.288AB.2

In subsection (1)—

      “ public authority ” has the same meaning as in section  6 (5)  of the
UNCRC Incorporation Act,           “ the UNCRC requirements ” has the meaning
given in section  1 (2)  of that Act,           “ UNCRC Incorporation Act ”
means the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child (Incorporation)
(Scotland) Act 2024.

32.3.288AB.3

Where a UNCRC compatibility issue has arisen in criminal proceedings before a
court, other than a court consisting of 2 or more judges of the High Court,
the court may, instead of determining it, refer the issue to the High Court.

32.3.288AB.4

The Lord Advocate, if a party to criminal proceedings before a court, other
than a court consisting of 2 or more judges of the High Court, may require the
court to refer to the High Court any UNCRC compatibility issue which has
arisen in the proceedings.

32.3.288AB.5

The High Court may, instead of determining a UNCRC compatibility issue
referred to it under subsection (4), refer it to the Supreme Court.

32.3.288AB.6

Where a UNCRC compatibility issue has arisen in criminal proceedings before a
court consisting of 2 or more judges of the High Court, otherwise than on a
reference, the court may, instead of determining it, refer it to the Supreme
Court.

32.3.288AB.7

The Lord Advocate, if a party to criminal proceedings before a court
consisting of 2 or more judges of the High Court, may require the court to
refer to the Supreme Court any UNCRC compatibility issue which has arisen in
the proceedings otherwise than on a reference.

32.3.288AB.8

On a reference to the Supreme Court under this section—

32.3.288AB.8.a

the powers of the Supreme Court are exercisable only for the purpose of
determining the UNCRC compatibility issue,

32.3.288AB.8.b

for that purpose the Court may make any change in the formulation of that
issue that it thinks necessary in the interests of justice.

32.3.288AB.9

When it has determined a compatibility issue on a reference under this
section, the Supreme Court must remit the proceedings to the High Court.

32.3.288AB.10

An issue referred to the High Court or the Supreme Court under this section is
referred to it for determination.

########## Appeals to the Supreme Court: UNCRC compatibility issues

32.3.288AC

32.3.288AC.1

For the purpose of determining any UNCRC compatibility issue an appeal lies to
the Supreme Court against a determination in criminal proceedings by a court
of 2 or more judges of the High Court.

32.3.288AC.2

On an appeal under this section—

32.3.288AC.2.a

the powers of the Supreme Court are exercisable only for the purpose of
determining the UNCRC compatibility issue,

32.3.288AC.2.b

for that purpose the Court may make any change in the formulation of that
issue that it thinks necessary in the interests of justice.

32.3.288AC.3

When it has determined the UNCRC compatibility issue, the Supreme Court must
remit the proceedings to the High Court.

32.3.288AC.4

An appeal under this section against a determination lies only—

32.3.288AC.4.a

with the permission of the High Court, or

32.3.288AC.4.b

if the High Court has refused permission, with the permission of the Supreme
Court.

32.3.288AC.5

Subsection (4) does not apply if it is an appeal by the Lord Advocate against
a determination by the High Court of a UNCRC compatibility issue referred to
it under section 288AB(4).

32.3.288AC.6

An application to the High Court for permission under subsection (4)(a) must
be made—

32.3.288AC.6.a

within 28 days of the date of the determination against which the appeal lies,
or

32.3.288AC.6.b

within such longer period as the High Court considers equitable having regard
to all the circumstances.

32.3.288AC.7

An application to the Supreme Court for permission under subsection (4)(b)
must be made—

32.3.288AC.7.a

within 28 days of the date on which the High Court refused permission under
subsection (4)(b), or

32.3.288AC.7.b

within such longer period as the Supreme Court considers equitable having
regard to all the circumstances.

.

32.4

In section 288B (appeals to the Supreme Court: general), in subsection (1),
after “288AA” insert  “or 288AC” .

#### Power to institute proceedings to determine compatibility question

33

The Lord Advocate may institute proceedings for the determination of a
compatibility question.

#### Power to intervene in proceedings where compatibility question arises

34

34.1

Where a compatibility question arises in any proceedings before a court or
tribunal, intimation of that is to be given to the Lord Advocate, the
Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland and the Scottish
Commission for Human Rights (unless the person to whom the intimation would be
given is a party to the proceedings).

34.2

A person to whom intimation is given under subsection  (1)  may, on giving
notice, take part as a party in the proceedings so far as the proceedings
relate to a compatibility question.

#### Reference of compatibility question to higher court

35

35.1

A court, other than the Supreme Court or the Inner House of the Court of
Session, may refer any compatibility question which arises in proceedings
(other than criminal proceedings) before it to the Inner House.

35.2

A tribunal from which there is no appeal must refer any compatibility question
which arises in proceedings before it to the Inner House and any other
tribunal may make such a reference.

35.3

The Inner House may refer any compatibility question which arises in
proceedings before it (otherwise than on a reference under subsection  (1)  or
(2) ) to the Supreme Court.

35.4

An appeal against a determination of a compatibility question by the Inner
House on a reference under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  lies to the Supreme
Court.

35.5

An appeal against a determination of a compatibility question by the Inner
House from which there is no appeal to the Supreme Court apart from this
subsection lies to the Supreme Court only—

35.5.a

with the permission of the Inner House, or

35.5.b

if the Inner House has refused permission, with the permission of the Supreme
Court.

#### Direct references to Supreme Court: compatibility question arising in proceedings

36

The Lord Advocate may require any court or tribunal to refer to the Supreme
Court any compatibility question which has arisen in proceedings before it to
which the Lord Advocate is a party.

#### Direct references to Supreme Court: compatibility question not arising in proceedings

37

37.1

The Lord Advocate may refer to the Supreme Court any compatibility question
which is not the subject of proceedings.

37.2

Subsections  (3)  to  (5)  apply where a reference is made under subsection
(1)  in relation to a compatibility question that relates to the proposed
exercise of a function by a public authority.

37.3

The Lord Advocate must notify the public authority of the making of the
reference.

37.4

The public authority may not exercise the function in the manner proposed
during the period beginning with the receipt of the notification under
subsection  (3)  and ending with the reference being decided or otherwise
disposed of.

37.5

Proceedings relating to any possible failure by the public authority to comply
with subsection  (4)  may be instituted by the Lord Advocate.

#### Additional expenses

38

38.1

A court or tribunal before which any proceedings take place may take account
of any additional expense of the kind mentioned in subsection  (3)  in
deciding any question as to expenses.

38.2

In deciding any such question, the court or tribunal may award the whole or
part of the additional expense as expenses to the party who incurred it
(whatever the decision on the compatibility question).

38.3

The additional expense is any additional expense which the court or tribunal
considers that any party to the proceedings has incurred as a result of the
participation of any person under section  25 (8) ,  27 (2)  or  34 (2) .

### Remedial regulations

#### Remedial regulations

39

39.1

In the circumstances set out in subsection  (2) , the Scottish Ministers may
by regulations (“ remedial regulations ”) make such provision as they consider
necessary or expedient in consequence of—

39.1.a

any provision of affected legislation, or

39.1.b

any exercise or purported exercise of functions by a member of the Scottish
Government,

which is or may be incompatible with the UNCRC requirements.

39.2

The circumstances are that the Scottish Ministers consider that there are
compelling reasons for making remedial regulations as distinct from taking any
other action.

39.3

Remedial regulations may—

39.3.a

relate to—

39.3.a.i

all cases to which the power to make it extends,

39.3.a.ii

those cases subject to specified exceptions, or

39.3.a.iii

any particular case or type of case,

39.3.b

modify any enactment (including this Act) or prerogative instrument or any
other instrument or document relating to the exercise or purported exercise of
functions by the Scottish Ministers,

39.3.c

create criminal offences (but see subsection  (4) ),

39.3.d

make provision (other than provision creating criminal offences or increasing
the punishment for criminal offences) which has retrospective effect,

39.3.e

provide for the delegation of functions.

39.4

The maximum penalties that may be provided for in remedial regulations are—

39.4.a

on summary conviction, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both),

39.4.b

on conviction on indictment, imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.

39.5

In this section, “ affected legislation ” means an enactment (whenever
enacted) that it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish
Parliament to make—

39.5.a

that comprises—

39.5.a.i

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

39.5.a.ii

an Act of Parliament, or

39.5.b

that is wholly or partly made by virtue of an enactment mentioned in paragraph
(a).

39.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5) , an enactment that extends to Scotland
and other jurisdictions is not, for that reason alone, to be regarded as
outside the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament.

#### Remedial regulations: procedure

40

40.1

Remedial regulations are subject to the affirmative procedure.

40.2

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing remedial
regulations before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish Ministers must—

40.2.a

lay a copy of the proposed draft regulations, together with a document setting
out their reasons for proposing to make the regulations, before the Scottish
Parliament,

40.2.b

give such public notice of the contents of the proposed draft regulations as
they consider appropriate and invite persons wishing to make observations on
the draft regulations to do so, in writing, within the comment period,

40.2.c

have regard to any written observations submitted within the comment period.

40.3

In subsection  (2) (b) , the “ comment period ” means the period of 60 days
beginning with—

40.3.a

the day on which the public notice was given,

40.3.b

if earlier, the day on which the draft regulations were laid, or

40.3.c

if both  (a)  and  (b)  happened on the same day, that day.

40.4

Along with a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing remedial
regulations, the Scottish Ministers must also lay before the Scottish
Parliament a document which—

40.4.a

summarises the observations to which they had regard under subsection  (2) (c)
, and

40.4.b

sets out the changes (if any) which they have made to the remedial regulations
and the reasons for them.

40.5

In calculating the period of 60 days for the purpose of subsection  (3) , no
account is to be taken of any period during which the Scottish Parliament is—

40.5.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

40.5.b

dissolved.

#### Urgent remedial regulations

41

41.1

Where it appears to the Scottish Ministers that, for reasons of urgency, it is
necessary to make remedial regulations without following the procedure in
section  40 , they may do so.

41.2

Immediately after making such remedial regulations, the Scottish Ministers
must—

41.2.a

give such public notice of the contents of the remedial regulations as they
consider appropriate and invite persons wishing to make observations on the
remedial regulations to do so, in writing, within the period of 60 days
beginning with the day on which the regulations were made,

41.2.b

lay the regulations, together with a statement of their reasons for having
made them, before the Scottish Parliament.

41.3

The Scottish Ministers must have regard to any written observations submitted
within the period mentioned in subsection  (2) (a) .

41.4

As soon as practicable after the end of that period, the Scottish Ministers
must lay before the Scottish Parliament a document which—

41.4.a

summarises the observations to which they had regard under subsection  (3) ,
and

41.4.b

sets out the changes (if any) which they consider it appropriate to make to
the remedial regulations.

41.5

If changes have been specified under subsection  (4) (b) , the Scottish
Ministers must make remedial regulations by virtue of this subsection giving
effect to those changes and replacing the remedial regulations made under
subsection  (1) .

41.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  simply revoking remedial regulations made
under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

41.7

Other regulations under subsection  (5)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

41.8

If, at the end of the period of 120 days beginning with the day on which
remedial regulations were made under subsection  (1) , the Scottish Parliament
has not, by resolution, approved the remedial regulations or any remedial
regulations made by virtue of subsection  (5)  replacing them, then the
remedial regulations or (as the case may be) the replacement remedial
regulations cease to have effect (but without that affecting anything done
under those regulations or the power to make fresh remedial regulations,
whether under the procedure set out in section  40  or this section).

41.9

Subsection  (8)  has no effect where the Scottish Ministers have, before the
end of the period referred to in that subsection, simply revoked the remedial
regulations made under subsection  (1) .

41.10

In calculating the periods of 60 or 120 days for the purposes of subsections
(2) (a) ,  (8)  and  (9)  no account is to be taken of any period during which
the Scottish Parliament is—

41.10.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

41.10.b

dissolved.

### Final provisions

#### Interpretation

42

42.1

In this Act—

      “ compatibility question ” has the meaning given in section  31 ,
“ incompatibility declarator ” has the meaning given in section  26 (2) ,
“ public authority ” has the meaning given in section  6 (5)  and  (8) ,
“ remedial regulations ” has the meaning given in section  39 (1) ,
“ strike down declarator ” has the meaning given in section  25 (2) ,
“ Supreme Court ” means the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom,           “
the Convention ” has the meaning given in section  1 (1) ,           “ the
first optional protocol ” has the meaning given in section  1 (1) ,
“ the second optional protocol ” has the meaning given in section  1 (1) ,
“ the UNCRC requirements ” has the meaning given in section  1 (2) ,
“ UNCRC compatibility issue ” has the meaning given in section 288AB(1) of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

42.2

For the purposes of this Act, a function conferred by words inserted by one
enactment into another enactment (“the modified enactment”) is to be regarded
as conferred only by the modified enactment.

#### No modification of the Human Rights Act 1998

43

Nothing in this Act modifies the Human Rights Act 1998.

#### Rules of court

44

44.1

In this section, “ rules of court ” means rules made under any power to make
provision for regulating the practice or procedure of any court or tribunal.

44.2

Any power to make provision for regulating the practice or procedure of any
court or tribunal includes power to make provision for the purposes of this
Act including, in particular, provision—

44.2.a

for specifying the stage in the proceedings at which a compatibility question
is to be raised or referred,

44.2.b

for the sisting of proceedings for the purposes of any proceedings under this
Act, and

44.2.c

for determining how and when any intimation or notice is to be given.

44.3

The giving of intimation or notice under this Act is to be done in accordance
with provision made in rules of court.

#### Regulations

45

45.1

A power of the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under this Act includes
power to make—

45.1.a

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision,

45.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

45.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply to regulations under section  47 (2) .

#### Ancillary provision

46

46.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

46.2

Regulations under this section may modify any enactment (including this Act).

46.3

Regulations under this section—

46.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act, but

46.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

47

47.1

The following provisions come into force on the day after Royal Assent—

47.1.a

section  42 ,

47.1.b

section  45 ,

47.1.c

section  46 ,

47.1.d

this section,

47.1.e

section  48 .

47.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force—

47.2.a

at the end of a period of 6 months beginning with the day of Royal Assent,

47.2.b

on such earlier day as the Scottish Ministers may by regulations appoint.

47.3

Regulations under this section bringing into force any provisions containing
any text referring to the day on which the provisions come into force may
amend the text so that the text specifies the date on which the provisions
actually come into force.

47.4

Regulations under this section—

47.4.a

may make different provision for different purposes,

47.4.b

may include transitional, transitory or saving provision.

#### Short title

48

The short title of this Act is the United Nations Convention on the Rights of
the Child (Incorporation) (Scotland) Act 2024.

The UNCRC requirements

(introduced by section  1 (2) )

##### Rights and obligations from the Convention

For the purposes of the present Convention, a child means every human being
below the age of eighteen years.

1

States Parties shall respect and ensure the rights set forth in the present
Convention to each child within their jurisdiction without discrimination of
any kind, irrespective of the child’s or his or her parent’s or legal
guardian’s race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion,
national, ethnic or social origin, property, disability, birth or other
status.

2

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the child is
protected against all forms of discrimination or punishment on the basis of
the status, activities, expressed opinions, or beliefs of the child’s parents,
legal guardians, or family members.

1

In all actions concerning children, whether undertaken by public or private
social welfare institutions, courts of law, administrative authorities or
legislative bodies, the best interests of the child shall be a primary
consideration.

2

States Parties undertake to ensure the child such protection and care as is
necessary for his or her well-being, taking into account the rights and duties
of his or her parents, legal guardians, or other individuals legally
responsible for him or her, and, to this end, shall take all appropriate
legislative and administrative measures.

3

States Parties shall ensure that the institutions, services and facilities
responsible for the care or protection of children shall conform with the
standards established by competent authorities, particularly in the areas of
safety, health, in the number and suitability of their staff, as well as
competent supervision.

States Parties shall undertake all appropriate legislative, administrative,
and other measures for the implementation of the rights recognized in the
present Convention. With regard to economic, social and cultural rights,
States Parties shall undertake such measures to the maximum extent of their
available resources and, where needed, within the framework of international
co-operation.

States Parties shall respect the responsibilities, rights and duties of
parents or, where applicable, the members of the extended family or community
as provided for by local custom, legal guardians or other persons legally
responsible for the child, to provide, in a manner consistent with the
evolving capacities of the child, appropriate direction and guidance in the
exercise by the child of the rights recognized in the present Convention.

1

States Parties recognize that every child has the inherent right to life.

2

States Parties shall ensure to the maximum extent possible the survival and
development of the child.

1

The child shall be registered immediately after birth and shall have the right
from birth to a name and, as far as possible, the right to know and be cared
for by his or her parents.

2

States Parties shall ensure the implementation of these rights in accordance
with their national law and their obligations under the relevant international
instruments in this field.

1

States Parties undertake to respect the right of the child to preserve his or
her identity, including name and family relations as recognized by law without
unlawful interference.

2

Where a child is illegally deprived of some or all of the elements of his or
her identity, States Parties shall provide appropriate assistance and
protection, with a view to speedily re-establishing his or her identity.

1

States Parties shall ensure that a child shall not be separated from his or
her parents against their will, except when competent authorities subject to
judicial review determine, in accordance with applicable law and procedures,
that such separation is necessary for the best interests of the child. Such
determination may be necessary in a particular case such as one involving
abuse or neglect of the child by the parents, or one where the parents are
living separately and a decision must be made as to the child’s place of
residence.

2

In any proceedings pursuant to paragraph 1 of the present article, all
interested parties shall be given an opportunity to participate in the
proceedings and make their views known.

3

States Parties shall respect the right of the child who is separated from one
or both parents to maintain personal relations and direct contact with both
parents on a regular basis, except if it is contrary to the child’s best
interests.

4

Where such separation results from any action initiated by a State Party, such
as the detention, imprisonment, exile, deportation or death (including death
arising from any cause while the person is in the custody of the State) of one
or both parents or of the child, that State Party shall, upon request, provide
the parents, the child or, if appropriate, another member of the family with
the essential information concerning the whereabouts of the absent member(s)
of the family unless the provision of the information would be detrimental to
the well-being of the child. States Parties shall further ensure that the
submission of such a request shall of itself entail no adverse consequences
for the person(s) concerned.

2

A child whose parents reside in different States shall have the right to
maintain on a regular basis, save in exceptional circumstances personal
relations and direct contacts with both parents.

1

States Parties shall take measures to combat the illicit transfer and non-
return of children abroad.

1

States Parties shall assure to the child who is capable of forming his or her
own views the right to express those views freely in all matters affecting the
child, the views of the child being given due weight in accordance with the
age and maturity of the child.

2

For this purpose, the child shall in particular be provided the opportunity to
be heard in any judicial and administrative proceedings affecting the child,
either directly, or through a representative or an appropriate body, in a
manner consistent with the procedural rules of national law.

1

The child shall have the right to freedom of expression; this right shall
include freedom to seek, receive and impart information and ideas of all
kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing or in print, in the
form of art, or through any other media of the child’s choice.

2

The exercise of this right may be subject to certain restrictions, but these
shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary:

2.a

For respect of the rights or reputations of others; or

2.b

For the protection of national security or of public order ( ordre public ),
or of public health or morals.

1

States Parties shall respect the right of the child to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion.

2

States Parties shall respect the rights and duties of the parents and, when
applicable, legal guardians, to provide direction to the child in the exercise
of his or her right in a manner consistent with the evolving capacities of the
child.

3

Freedom to manifest one’s religion or beliefs may be subject only to such
limitations as are prescribed by law and are necessary to protect public
safety, order, health or morals, or the fundamental rights and freedoms of
others.

1

States Parties recognize the rights of the child to freedom of association and
to freedom of peaceful assembly.

2

No restrictions may be placed on the exercise of these rights other than those
imposed in conformity with the law and which are necessary in a democratic
society in the interests of national security or public safety, public order (
ordre public ), the protection of public health or morals or the protection of
the rights and freedoms of others.

1

No child shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his or
her privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to unlawful attacks on his or
her honour and reputation.

2

The child has the right to the protection of the law against such interference
or attacks.

States Parties recognize the important function performed by the mass media
and shall ensure that the child has access to information and material from a
diversity of national and international sources, especially those aimed at the
promotion of his or her social, spiritual and moral well-being and physical
and mental health. To this end, States Parties shall: a Encourage the mass
media to disseminate information and material of social and cultural benefit
to the child and in accordance with the spirit of article 29; b Encourage
international co-operation in the production, exchange and dissemination of
such information and material from a diversity of cultural, national and
international sources; c Encourage the production and dissemination of
children’s books; d Encourage the mass media to have particular regard to the
linguistic needs of the child who belongs to a minority group or who is
indigenous; e Encourage the development of appropriate guidelines for the
protection of the child from information and material injurious to his or her
well-being, bearing in mind the provisions of articles 13 and 18.

1

States Parties shall use their best efforts to ensure recognition of the
principle that both parents have common responsibilities for the upbringing
and development of the child. Parents or, as the case may be, legal guardians,
have the primary responsibility for the upbringing and development of the
child. The best interests of the child will be their basic concern.

2

For the purpose of guaranteeing and promoting the rights set forth in the
present Convention, States Parties shall render appropriate assistance to
parents and legal guardians in the performance of their child-rearing
responsibilities and shall ensure the development of institutions, facilities
and services for the care of children.

3

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that children of
working parents have the right to benefit from child-care services and
facilities for which they are eligible.

1

States Parties shall take all appropriate legislative, administrative, social
and educational measures to protect the child from all forms of physical or
mental violence, injury or abuse, neglect or negligent treatment, maltreatment
or exploitation, including sexual abuse, while in the care of parent(s), legal
guardian(s) or any other person who has the care of the child.

2

Such protective measures should, as appropriate, include effective procedures
for the establishment of social programmes to provide necessary support for
the child and for those who have the care of the child, as well as for other
forms of prevention and for identification, reporting, referral,
investigation, treatment and follow-up of instances of child maltreatment
described heretofore, and, as appropriate, for judicial involvement.

1

A child temporarily or permanently deprived of his or her family environment,
or in whose own best interests cannot be allowed to remain in that
environment, shall be entitled to special protection and assistance provided
by the State.

2

States Parties shall in accordance with their national laws ensure alternative
care for such a child.

3

Such care could include,  inter alia , foster placement,  kafalah  of Islamic
law, adoption or if necessary placement in suitable institutions for the care
of children. When considering solutions, due regard shall be paid to the
desirability of continuity in a child’s upbringing and to the child’s ethnic,
religious, cultural and linguistic background.

States Parties that recognize and/or permit the system of adoption shall
ensure that the best interests of the child shall be the paramount
consideration and they shall: a Ensure that the adoption of a child is
authorized only by competent authorities who determine, in accordance with
applicable law and procedures and on the basis of all pertinent and reliable
information, that the adoption is permissible in view of the child’s status
concerning parents, relatives and legal guardians and that, if required, the
persons concerned have given their informed consent to the adoption on the
basis of such counselling as may be necessary; b Recognize that inter-country
adoption may be considered as an alternative means of child’s care, if the
child cannot be placed in a foster or an adoptive family or cannot in any
suitable manner be cared for in the child’s country of origin; c Ensure that
the child concerned by inter-country adoption enjoys safeguards and standards
equivalent to those existing in the case of national adoption; d Take all
appropriate measures to ensure that, in inter-country adoption, the placement
does not result in improper financial gain for those involved in it; e
Promote, where appropriate, the objectives of the present article by
concluding bilateral or multilateral arrangements, and endeavour, within this
framework, to ensure that the placement of the child in another country is
carried out by competent authorities or organs.

1

States Parties shall take appropriate measures to ensure that a child who is
seeking refugee status or who is considered a refugee in accordance with
applicable international or domestic law and procedures shall, whether
unaccompanied or accompanied by his or her parents or by any other person,
receive appropriate protection and humanitarian assistance in the enjoyment of
applicable rights set forth in the present Convention and in other
international human rights or humanitarian instruments to which the said
States are Parties.

2

For this purpose, States Parties shall provide, as they consider appropriate,
co-operation in any efforts by the United Nations and other competent
intergovernmental organisations or non-governmental organisations co-operating
with the United Nations to protect and assist such a child and to trace the
parents or other members of the family of any refugee child in order to obtain
information necessary for reunification with his or her family. In cases where
no parents or other members of the family can be found, the child shall be
accorded the same protection as any other child permanently or temporarily
deprived of his or her family environment for any reason, as set forth in the
present Convention.

1

States Parties recognize that a mentally or physically disabled child should
enjoy a full and decent life, in conditions which ensure dignity, promote
self-reliance and facilitate the child’s active participation in the
community. 

2

States Parties recognize the right of the disabled child to special care and
shall encourage and ensure the extension, subject to available resources, to
the eligible child and those responsible for his or her care, of assistance
for which application is made and which is appropriate to the child’s
condition and to the circumstances of the parents or others caring for the
child.

3

Recognizing the special needs of a disabled child, assistance extended in
accordance with paragraph 2 of the present article shall be provided free of
charge, whenever possible, taking into account the financial resources of the
parents or others caring for the child, and shall be designed to ensure that
the disabled child has effective access to and receives education, training,
health care services, rehabilitation services, preparation for employment and
recreation opportunities in a manner conducive to the child’s achieving the
fullest possible social integration and individual development, including his
or her cultural and spiritual development.

4

States Parties shall promote, in the spirit of international co-operation, the
exchange of appropriate information in the field of preventive health care and
of medical, psychological and functional treatment of disabled children,
including dissemination of and access to information concerning methods of
rehabilitation, education and vocational services, with the aim of enabling
States Parties to improve their capabilities and skills and to widen their
experience in these areas. In this regard, particular account shall be taken
of the needs of developing countries.

1

States Parties recognize the right of the child to the enjoyment of the
highest attainable standard of health and to facilities for the treatment of
illness and rehabilitation of health. States Parties shall strive to ensure
that no child is deprived of his or her right of access to such health care
services.

2

States Parties shall pursue full implementation of this right and, in
particular, shall take appropriate measures:

2.a

To diminish infant and child mortality;

2.b

To ensure the provision of necessary medical assistance and health care to all
children with emphasis on the development of primary health care;

2.c

To combat disease and malnutrition, including within the framework of primary
health care, through,  inter alia , the application of readily available
technology and through the provision of adequate nutritious foods and clean
drinking-water, taking into consideration the dangers and risks of
environmental pollution;

2.d

To ensure appropriate pre-natal and post-natal health care for mothers;

2.e

To ensure that all segments of society, in particular parents and children,
are informed, have access to education and are supported in the use of basic
knowledge of child health and nutrition, the advantages of breast-feeding,
hygiene and environmental sanitation and the prevention of accidents;

2.f

To develop preventive health care, guidance for parents and family planning
education and services.

3

States Parties shall take all effective and appropriate measures with a view
to abolishing traditional practices prejudicial to the health of children.

4

States Parties undertake to promote and encourage international co-operation
with a view to achieving progressively the full realization of the right
recognized in the present article. In this regard, particular account shall be
taken of the needs of developing countries.

States Parties recognize the right of a child who has been placed by the
competent authorities for the purposes of care, protection or treatment of his
or her physical or mental health, to a periodic review of the treatment
provided to the child and all other circumstances relevant to his or her
placement.

1

States Parties shall recognize for every child the right to benefit from
social security and shall take the necessary measures to achieve the full
realization of this right in accordance with their national law.

2

The benefits should, where appropriate, be granted, taking into account the
resources and the circumstances of the child and persons having responsibility
for the maintenance of the child, as well as any other consideration relevant
to an application for benefits made by or on behalf of the child.

1

States Parties recognize the right of every child to a standard of living
adequate for the child’s physical, mental, spiritual, moral and social
development.

2

The parent(s) or others responsible for the child have the primary
responsibility to secure, within their abilities and financial capacities, the
conditions of living necessary for the child’s development.

3

States Parties, in accordance with national conditions and within their means,
shall take appropriate measures to assist parents and others responsible for
the child to implement this right and shall in case of need provide material
assistance and support programmes, particularly with regard to nutrition,
clothing and housing.

4

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to secure the recovery of
maintenance for the child from the parents or other persons having financial
responsibility for the child, both within the State Party and from abroad. In
particular, where the person having financial responsibility for the child
lives in a State different from that of the child, States Parties shall
promote the making of appropriate arrangements.

1

States Parties recognize the right of the child to education, and with a view
to achieving this right progressively and on the basis of equal opportunity,
they shall, in particular:

1.a

Make primary education compulsory and available free to all;

1.b

Encourage the development of different forms of secondary education, including
general and vocational education, make them available and accessible to every
child, and take appropriate measures such as the introduction of free
education and offering financial assistance in case of need;

1.c

Make higher education accessible to all on the basis of capacity by every
appropriate means;

1.d

Make educational and vocational information and guidance available and
accessible to all children;

1.e

Take measures to encourage regular attendance at schools and the reduction of
drop-out rates.

2

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that school
discipline is administered in a manner consistent with the child’s human
dignity and in conformity with the present Convention.

3

States Parties shall promote and encourage international co-operation in
matters relating to education, in particular with a view to contributing to
the elimination of ignorance and illiteracy throughout the world and
facilitating access to scientific and technical knowledge and modern teaching
methods. In this regard, particular account shall be taken of the needs of
developing countries.

1

States Parties agree that the education of the child shall be directed to:

1.a

The development of the child’s personality, talents and mental and physical
abilities to their fullest potential;

1.b

The development of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and for
the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations;

1.c

The development of respect for the child’s parents, his or her own cultural
identity, language and values, for the national values of the country in which
the child is living, the country from which he or she may originate, and for
civilizations different from his or her own;

1.d

The preparation of the child for responsible life in a free society, in the
spirit of understanding, peace, tolerance, equality of sexes, and friendship
among all peoples, ethnic, national and religious groups and persons of
indigenous origin;

1.e

The development of respect for the natural environment.

2

No part of the present article or article 28 shall be construed so as to
interfere with the liberty of individuals and bodies to establish and direct
educational institutions, subject always to the observance of the principle
set forth in paragraph 1 of the present article and to the requirements that
the education given in such institutions shall conform to such minimum
standards as may be laid down by the State.

In those States in which ethnic, religious or linguistic minorities or persons
of indigenous origin exist, a child belonging to such a minority or who is
indigenous shall not be denied the right, in community with other members of
his or her group, to enjoy his or her own culture, to profess and practise his
or her own religion, or to use his or her own language.

1

States Parties recognize the right of the child to rest and leisure, to engage
in play and recreational activities appropriate to the age of the child and to
participate freely in cultural life and the arts.

2

States Parties shall respect and promote the right of the child to participate
fully in cultural and artistic life and shall encourage the provision of
appropriate and equal opportunities for cultural, artistic, recreational and
leisure activity.

1

States Parties recognize the right of the child to be protected from economic
exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to
interfere with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health
or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development.

2

States Parties shall take legislative, administrative, social and educational
measures to ensure the implementation of the present article. To this end, and
having regard to the relevant provisions of other international instruments,
States Parties shall in particular:

2.a

Provide for a minimum age or minimum ages for admission to employment;

2.b

Provide for appropriate regulation of the hours and conditions of employment;

2.c

Provide for appropriate penalties or other sanctions to ensure the effective
enforcement of the present article.

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures, including legislative,
administrative, social and educational measures, to protect children from the
illicit use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances as defined in the
relevant international treaties, and to prevent the use of children in the
illicit production and trafficking of such substances.

States Parties undertake to protect the child from all forms of sexual
exploitation and sexual abuse. For these purposes, States Parties shall in
particular take all appropriate national measures to prevent: a The inducement
or coercion of a child to engage in any unlawful sexual activity; b The
exploitative use of children in prostitution or other unlawful sexual
practices; c The exploitative use of children in pornographic performances and
materials.

States Parties shall take all appropriate national measures to prevent the
abduction of, the sale of or traffic in children for any purpose or in any
form.

States Parties shall protect the child against all other forms of exploitation
prejudicial to any aspects of the child’s welfare.

States Parties shall ensure that: a No child shall be subjected to torture or
other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Neither capital
punishment nor life imprisonment without possibility of release shall be
imposed for offences committed by persons below eighteen years of age; b No
child shall be deprived of his or her liberty unlawfully or arbitrarily. The
arrest, detention or imprisonment of a child shall be in conformity with the
law and shall be used only as a measure of last resort and for the shortest
appropriate period of time; c Every child deprived of liberty shall be treated
with humanity and respect for the inherent dignity of the human person, and in
a manner which takes into account the needs of persons of his or her age. In
particular, every child deprived of liberty shall be separated from adults
unless it is considered in the child’s best interest not to do so and shall
have the right to maintain contact with his or her family through
correspondence and visits, save in exceptional circumstances; d Every child
deprived of his or her liberty shall have the right to prompt access to legal
and other appropriate assistance, as well as the right to challenge the
legality of the deprivation of his or her liberty before a court or other
competent, independent and impartial authority, and to a prompt decision on
any such action.

1

States Parties undertake to respect and to ensure respect for rules of
international humanitarian law applicable to them in armed conflicts which are
relevant to the child.

2

States Parties shall take all feasible measures to ensure that persons who
have not attained the age of fifteen years do not take a direct part in
hostilities.

4

In accordance with their obligations under international humanitarian law to
protect the civilian population in armed conflicts, States Parties shall take
all feasible measures to ensure protection and care of children who are
affected by an armed conflict.

States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to promote physical and
psychological recovery and social reintegration of a child victim of: any form
of neglect, exploitation, or abuse; torture or any other form of cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or armed conflicts. Such
recovery and reintegration shall take place in an environment which fosters
the health, self-respect and dignity of the child.

1

States Parties recognize the right of every child alleged as, accused of, or
recognized as having infringed the penal law to be treated in a manner
consistent with the promotion of the child’s sense of dignity and worth, which
reinforces the child’s respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms
of others and which takes into account the child’s age and the desirability of
promoting the child’s reintegration and the child’s assuming a constructive
role in society.

2

To this end, and having regard to the relevant provisions of international
instruments, States Parties shall, in particular, ensure that:

2.a

No child shall be alleged as, be accused of, or recognized as having infringed
the penal law by reason of acts or omissions that were not prohibited by
national or international law at the time they were committed;

2.b

Every child alleged as or accused of having infringed the penal law has at
least the following guarantees:

2.b.i

To be presumed innocent until proven guilty according to law;

2.b.ii

To be informed promptly and directly of the charges against him or her, and,
if appropriate, through his or her parents or legal guardians, and to have
legal or other appropriate assistance in the preparation and presentation of
his or her defence;

2.b.iii

To have the matter determined without delay by a competent, independent and
impartial authority or judicial body in a fair hearing according to law, in
the presence of legal or other appropriate assistance and, unless it is
considered not to be in the best interest of the child, in particular, taking
into account his or her age or situation, his or her parents or legal
guardians;

2.b.iv

Not to be compelled to give testimony or to confess guilt; to examine or have
examined adverse witnesses and to obtain the participation and examination of
witnesses on his or her behalf under conditions of equality;

2.b.v

If considered to have infringed the penal law, to have this decision and any
measures imposed in consequence thereof reviewed by a higher competent,
independent and impartial authority or judicial body according to law;

2.b.vi

To have the free assistance of an interpreter if the child cannot understand
or speak the language used;

2.b.vii

To have his or her privacy fully respected at all stages of the proceedings.

3

States Parties shall seek to promote the establishment of laws, procedures,
authorities and institutions specifically applicable to children alleged as,
accused of, or recognized as having infringed the penal law, and, in
particular:

3.a

The establishment of a minimum age below which children shall be presumed not
to have the capacity to infringe the penal law;

3.b

Whenever appropriate and desirable, measures for dealing with such children
without resorting to judicial proceedings, providing that human rights and
legal safeguards are fully respected.

4

A variety of dispositions, such as care, guidance and supervision orders;
counselling; probation; foster care; education and vocational training
programmes and other alternatives to institutional care shall be available to
ensure that children are dealt with in a manner appropriate to their well-
being and proportionate both to their circumstances and the offence.

Nothing in the present Convention shall affect any provisions which are more
conducive to the realization of the rights of the child and which may be
contained in: a The law of a State Party; or b International law in force for
that State.

States Parties undertake to make the principles and provisions of the
Convention widely known, by appropriate and active means, to adults and
children alike.

##### Rights and obligations from the first optional protocol

1

Armed groups that are distinct from the armed forces of a State should not,
under any circumstances, recruit or use in hostilities persons under the age
of 18 years.

2

States Parties shall take all feasible measures to prevent such recruitment
and use, including the adoption of legal measures necessary to prohibit and
criminalize such practices.

3

The application of the present article under this Protocol shall not affect
the legal status of any party to an armed conflict.

Nothing in the present Protocol shall be construed as precluding provisions in
the law of a State Party or in international instruments and international
humanitarian law that are more conducive to the realization of the rights of
the child.

1

Each State Party shall take all necessary legal, administrative and other
measures to ensure the effective implementation and enforcement of the
provisions of this Protocol within its jurisdiction.

2

States Parties undertake to make the principles and provisions of the present
Protocol widely known and promoted by appropriate means, to adults and
children alike.

3

States Parties shall take all feasible measures to ensure that persons within
their jurisdiction recruited or used in hostilities contrary to this Protocol
are demobilized or otherwise released from service. States Parties shall, when
necessary, accord to such persons all appropriate assistance for their
physical and psychological recovery and their social reintegration.

1

States Parties shall cooperate in the implementation of the present Protocol,
including in the prevention of any activity contrary to the Protocol and in
the rehabilitation and social reintegration of persons who are victims of acts
contrary to this Protocol, including through technical cooperation and
financial assistance. Such assistance and cooperation will be undertaken in
consultation with concerned States Parties and relevant international
organizations.

2

States Parties in a position to do so shall provide such assistance through
existing multilateral, bilateral or other programmes or,  inter alia , through
a voluntary fund established in accordance with the rules of the General
Assembly.

##### Rights and obligations from the second optional protocol

States Parties shall prohibit the sale of children, child prostitution and
child pornography as provided for by the present Protocol.

For the purposes of the present Protocol: a Sale of children means any act or
transaction whereby a child is transferred by any person or group of persons
to another for remuneration or any other consideration; b Child prostitution
means the use of a child in sexual activities for remuneration or any other
form of consideration; c Child pornography means any representation, by
whatever means, of a child engaged in real or simulated explicit sexual
activities or any representation of the sexual parts of a child for primarily
sexual purposes.

1

Each State Party shall ensure that, as a minimum, the following acts and
activities are fully covered under its criminal or penal law, whether these
offences are committed domestically or transnationally or on an individual or
organized basis:

1.a

In the context of sale of children as defined in article 2:

1.a.i

The offering, delivering or accepting, by whatever means, a child for the
purpose of:

1.a.i.a

Sexual exploitation of the child;

1.a.i.b

Transfer of organs of the child for profit;

1.a.i.c

Engagement of the child in forced labour;

1.a.ii

Improperly inducing consent, as an intermediary, for the adoption of a child
in violation of applicable international legal instruments on adoption;

1.b

Offering, obtaining, procuring or providing a child for child prostitution, as
defined in article 2;

1.c

Producing, distributing, disseminating, importing, exporting, offering,
selling or possessing for the above purposes child pornography as defined in
article 2.

2

Subject to the provisions of a State Party’s national law, the same shall
apply to an attempt to commit any of these acts and to complicity or
participation in any of these acts.

3

Each State Party shall make such offences punishable by appropriate penalties
that take into account their grave nature.

4

Subject to the provisions of its national law, each State Party shall take
measures, where appropriate, to establish the liability of legal persons for
offences established in paragraph 1 of the present article. Subject to the
legal principles of the State Party, this liability of legal persons may be
criminal, civil or administrative.

5

States Parties shall take all appropriate legal and administrative measures to
ensure that all persons involved in the adoption of a child act in conformity
with applicable international legal instruments.

1

Each State Party shall take such measures as may be necessary to establish its
jurisdiction over the offences referred to in article 3, paragraph 1, when the
offences are committed in its territory or on board a ship or aircraft
registered in that State.

2

Each State Party may take such measures as may be necessary to establish its
jurisdiction over the offences referred to in article 3, paragraph 1, in the
following cases:

2.a

When the alleged offender is a national of that State or a person who has his
habitual residence in its territory;

2.b

When the victim is a national of that State.

3

Each State Party shall also take such measures as may be necessary to
establish its jurisdiction over the above-mentioned offences when the alleged
offender is present in its territory and it does not extradite him or her to
another State Party on the ground that the offence has been committed by one
of its nationals.

4

This Protocol does not exclude any criminal jurisdiction exercised in
accordance with internal law.

1

States Parties shall afford one another the greatest measure of assistance in
connection with investigations or criminal proceedings brought in respect of
the offences set forth in article 3, paragraph 1, including assistance in
obtaining evidence at their disposal necessary for the proceedings.

2

States Parties shall carry out their obligations under paragraph 1 of the
present article in conformity with any treaties or other arrangements on
mutual legal assistance that may exist between them. In the absence of such
treaties or arrangements, States Parties shall afford one another assistance
in accordance with their domestic law.

States Parties shall, subject to the provisions of their national law: a Take
measures to provide for the seizure and confiscation, as appropriate, of: i
Goods such as materials, assets and other instrumentalities used to commit or
facilitate offences under the present Protocol; ii Proceeds derived from such
offences; b Execute requests from another State Party for seizure or
confiscation of goods or proceeds referred to in subparagraph (a)(i); c Take
measures aimed at closing, on a temporary or definitive basis, premises used
to commit such offences.

1

States Parties shall adopt appropriate measures to protect the rights and
interests of child victims of the practices prohibited under the present
Protocol at all stages of the criminal justice process, in particular by:

1.a

Recognizing the vulnerability of child victims and adapting procedures to
recognize their special needs, including their special needs as witnesses;

1.b

Informing child victims of their rights, their role and the scope, timing and
progress of the proceedings and of the disposition of their cases;

1.c

Allowing the views, needs and concerns of child victims to be presented and
considered in proceedings where their personal interests are affected, in a
manner consistent with the procedural rules of national law;

1.d

Providing appropriate support services to child victims throughout the legal
process;

1.e

Protecting, as appropriate, the privacy and identity of child victims and
taking measures in accordance with national law to avoid the inappropriate
dissemination of information that could lead to the identification of child
victims;

1.f

Providing, in appropriate cases, for the safety of child victims, as well as
that of their families and witnesses on their behalf, from intimidation and
retaliation;

1.g

Avoiding unnecessary delay in the disposition of cases and the execution of
orders or decrees granting compensation to child victims.

2

States Parties shall ensure that uncertainty as to the actual age of the
victim shall not prevent the initiation of criminal investigations, including
investigations aimed at establishing the age of the victim.

3

States Parties shall ensure that, in the treatment by the criminal justice
system of children who are victims of the offences described in the present
Protocol, the best interest of the child shall be a primary consideration.

4

States Parties shall take measures to ensure appropriate training, in
particular legal and psychological training, for the persons who work with
victims of the offences prohibited under the present Protocol.

5

States Parties shall, in appropriate cases, adopt measures in order to protect
the safety and integrity of those persons and/or organizations involved in the
prevention and/or protection and rehabilitation of victims of such offences.

6

Nothing in the present article shall be construed as prejudicial to or
inconsistent with the rights of the accused to a fair and impartial trial.

1

States Parties shall adopt or strengthen, implement and disseminate laws,
administrative measures, social policies and programmes to prevent the
offences referred to in the present Protocol. Particular attention shall be
given to protect children who are especially vulnerable to such practices.

2

States Parties shall promote awareness in the public at large, including
children, through information by all appropriate means, education and
training, about the preventive measures and harmful effects of the offences
referred to in the present Protocol. In fulfilling their obligations under
this article, States Parties shall encourage the participation of the
community and, in particular, children and child victims, in such information
and education and training programmes, including at the international level.

3

States Parties shall take all feasible measures with the aim of ensuring all
appropriate assistance to victims of such offences, including their full
social reintegration and their full physical and psychological recovery.

4

States Parties shall ensure that all child victims of the offences described
in the present Protocol have access to adequate procedures to seek, without
discrimination, compensation for damages from those legally responsible.

5

States Parties shall take appropriate measures aimed at effectively
prohibiting the production and dissemination of material advertising the
offences described in the present Protocol.

4

States Parties in a position to do so shall provide financial, technical or
other assistance through existing multilateral, regional, bilateral or other
programmes.

Nothing in the present Protocol shall affect any provisions that are more
conducive to the realization of the rights of the child and that may be
contained in: a The law of a State Party; b International law in force for
that State.

