Title: Victims and Prisoners Act 2024
Date: 2024-11-06
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2024/21

## Victims and Prisoners Act 2024

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Victims of criminal conduct

#### Meaning of “victim”

##### Meaning of “victim”

1

1.1

In  this Part , “ victim ” means a person who has suffered harm as a direct
result of—

1.1.a

being subjected to criminal conduct, or

1.1.b

one or more of the circumstances mentioned in  subsection (2) .

1.2

The circumstances are—

1.2.a

where the person has seen, heard, or otherwise directly experienced the
effects of, criminal conduct at the time the conduct occurred;

1.2.b

where the person’s birth was the direct result of criminal conduct;

1.2.c

where the death of a close family member of the person was the direct result
of criminal conduct;

1.2.d

where the person is a child who is a victim of domestic abuse which
constitutes criminal conduct.

1.3

The reference in  subsection (2) (d)  to a child who is a victim of domestic
abuse is to be read in accordance with Part 1 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021.

1.4

For the purposes of this Part—

1.4.a

“ harm ” includes physical, mental or emotional harm and economic loss;

1.4.b

“ criminal conduct ” means conduct which constitutes an offence.

1.5

It is immaterial for the purposes of  subsection (4) (b)  that—

1.5.a

no person has reported the offence;

1.5.b

no person has been charged with or convicted of the offence.

1.6

In section 52(3)(a) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004, for
“complaint has been made about” substitute  “person has reported” .

#### Victims’ code

##### The victims’ code

2

2.1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice as to the services to be
provided to victims by persons appearing to the Secretary of State to have
functions of a public nature relating to—

2.1.a

victims, or

2.1.b

any aspect of the criminal justice system.

2.2

In  this Part , the “ victims’ code ” means the code of practice issued under
this section  that is for the time being in operation (but see  subsection
(13) ).

2.3

The victims’ code must make provision for services which reflect the
principles that victims require—

2.3.a

information to help them understand the criminal justice process;

2.3.b

access to services which support them (including, where appropriate,
specialist services);

2.3.c

the opportunity to make their views heard in the criminal justice process;

2.3.d

the ability to challenge decisions which have a direct impact on them.

2.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
victims’ code, including about matters that the code must include.

2.5

But the Secretary of State may make regulations under  subsection (4)  only if
satisfied that provision made in the code in compliance with the regulations
would not result in—

2.5.a

a significant reduction in the quality or extent of the services provided in
accordance with the victims’ code, or

2.5.b

a significant restriction in the description of persons to whom services are
provided in accordance with the victims’ code.

2.6

The victims’ code may restrict the application of its provisions to—

2.6.a

victims of specified descriptions (including those who are victims by virtue
of specified conduct or conduct constituting specified offences);

2.6.b

specified persons who have functions of a kind mentioned in  subsection (1) .

2.7

The victims’ code may include provision requiring or permitting the services
which are to be provided to a victim to be provided to one or more other
persons—

2.7.a

instead of the victim (for example, where the victim has died);

2.7.b

as well as the victim.

2.8

The victims’ code may make different provision for different purposes,
including different provision for—

2.8.a

victims of different descriptions;

2.8.b

persons who have different functions of a kind mentioned in  subsection (1) .

2.9

The victims’ code may make different provision for different areas.

2.10

In considering whether to exercise the power in  subsection (8) (a) , the
Secretary of State must have regard to the particular needs of victims who are
under the age of 18 or who have protected characteristics within the meaning
of the Equality Act 2010.

2.11

The victims’ code may not require anything to be done by—

2.11.a

a person acting in a judicial capacity, or on the instructions of or on behalf
of such a person;

2.11.b

a person acting in the discharge of a prosecution function, if that function
involves the exercise of a discretion.

2.12

In  this section , “ specified ” means specified in the victims’ code.

2.13

Until the first code of practice issued under  this section  is in operation,
references in sections  5  to  12  and  32  to the “victims’ code” are to the
code of practice issued under section 32 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and
Victims Act 2004 that is for the time being in operation.

##### Preparing and issuing the victims’ code

3

3.1

This section  applies in relation to the code of practice required to be
issued under  section 2 .

3.2

The Secretary of State must prepare a draft of the code.

3.3

In preparing the draft the Secretary of State must consult—

3.3.a

the Attorney General,

3.3.b

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses, and

3.3.c

the Welsh Ministers.

3.4

After preparing the draft the Secretary of State must—

3.4.a

publish the draft, and

3.4.b

specify a period during which representations about the draft may be made to
the Secretary of State.

3.5

The Secretary of State must—

3.5.a

consider, in consultation with the Attorney General, any representations about
the draft made to the Secretary of State before the end of the period
specified in accordance with  subsection (4) (b) , and

3.5.b

if the Secretary of State thinks it appropriate, modify the draft in the light
of any such representations.

3.6

After carrying out the duties under  subsection (5) , the Secretary of State
must lay the draft code before Parliament.

3.7

When the draft code has been laid before Parliament in accordance with
subsection (6) , the Secretary of State must bring it into operation on such
day as the Secretary of State appoints by regulations.

3.8

A requirement under any of  subsections (2)  to  (5)  may be met by steps
taken before (as well as after)  this section  comes into force.

##### Revising the victims’ code

4

4.1

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise the victims’ code.

4.2

But the Secretary of State may revise the victims’ code only if satisfied that
the proposed revisions would not result in—

4.2.a

a significant reduction in the quality or extent of the services provided in
accordance with the code, or

4.2.b

a significant restriction in the description of persons to whom services are
provided in accordance with the code.

4.3

The procedure in  section 3  applies to a revision of the victims’ code,
except that if the Secretary of State considers that all of the revisions are
minor the procedure in  subsection (5)  may be used instead.

4.4

Revisions are minor if—

4.4.a

they make corrections or clarifications, or

4.4.b

they are consequential on changes to the law, practice or procedure relating
to any aspect of the criminal justice system.

4.5

The procedure in  this subsection  is that the Secretary of State must—

4.5.a

consult the Attorney General, the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and
the Welsh Ministers about the proposed revisions,

4.5.b

lay a draft of the revised code before Parliament, and

4.5.c

when the draft revised code has been laid before Parliament, bring it into
operation on such day as the Secretary of State appoints by regulations.

##### Code compliance

5

5.1

Where the victims’ code makes provision about a service to be provided to
victims by a person, the person must provide the service in accordance with
the code unless the person has good reasons not to.

5.2

Any person who is subject to the duty in  subsection (1)  and is not an
individual must ensure that procedures are in place by which other persons may
complain about an alleged failure to comply with the duty.

5.3

If a person fails to act in accordance with the victims’ code, the failure
does not of itself make that person liable to criminal or civil proceedings.

5.4

But the victims’ code is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil
proceedings, and a court may take into account a failure to act in accordance
with the code in determining a question in the proceedings.

##### Code awareness and reviewing compliance: criminal justice bodies

6

6.1

Each criminal justice body which provides services in a police area must—

6.1.a

take reasonable steps to promote awareness of the victims’ code among users of
those services and other members of the public, and

6.1.b

keep under review whether and how those services are provided in accordance
with the duty in  section 5 (1) .

6.2

A criminal justice body which provides services in a police area must, in
particular, undertake the following activities in such manner as may be
prescribed—

6.2.a

collect prescribed information about the provision of those services;

6.2.b

share prescribed information about the provision of those services with—

6.2.b.i

each other criminal justice body which provides services in the police area,
or such of those bodies as may be prescribed, and

6.2.b.ii

the elected local policing body for the police area;

6.2.c

review information shared under paragraph  (b)  with the bodies with whom the
information is shared.

6.3

In  subsection (2) , “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

6.4

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may, in particular—

6.4.a

prescribe different information to be collected or shared by different bodies;

6.4.b

prescribe different information in relation to different services;

6.4.c

prescribe information relating to the characteristics or experiences of users
of services;

6.4.d

prescribe the times at which, or periods within which, information must be
collected, shared or reviewed;

6.4.e

prescribe the form in which information must be collected or shared, or
require information to be collected or shared in such form as may be specified
in a notice issued from time to time by the Secretary of State.

6.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it is immaterial for these
purposes whether the consultation is carried out before or after  this section
comes into force).

6.6

In this section, “ criminal justice body ” means—

6.6.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in question;

6.6.b

the Crown Prosecution Service;

6.6.c

the Lord Chancellor, in the exercise of functions under section 1 of the
Courts Act 2003 or section 39 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act
2007;

6.6.d

the Secretary of State, in the exercise of functions in relation to prisons;

6.6.e

a youth offending team established under section 39 of the Crime and Disorder
Act 1998;

6.6.f

the Secretary of State, in the exercise of functions in relation to probation
provision within the meaning of Part 1 of the Offender Management Act 2007
(see section 2(1) of that Act).

6.7

In  subsection (6) (d) , “ prison ” includes any youth detention accommodation
within the meaning given by section 248(1) of the Sentencing Code (detention
and training orders).

##### Arrangements for collection of victims’ feedback

7

7.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State has made arrangements with a
person for the collection by the person of information which—

7.1.a

relates to the characteristics or experiences of users of services provided by
a relevant criminal justice body in a police area, and

7.1.b

is collected for the purposes of assessing whether and how those services are
provided in accordance with the duty in  section 5 (1) .

7.2

The Secretary of State and the Attorney General may by a joint direction
require the body to provide specified information to the person for the
purposes of enabling or assisting the performance of the arrangements.

7.3

A relevant criminal justice body which is directed to provide information
under this section must provide it—

7.3.a

in such form and manner as may be specified, and

7.3.b

at such times or within such periods as may be specified.

7.4

In this section—

      “ relevant criminal justice body ” means a criminal justice body falling
within paragraphs  (a) ,  (b)  or  (e)  of the definition of “criminal justice
body” in  section 6 (6) ;           “ specified ” means specified in the
direction.

##### Reviewing code compliance: elected local policing bodies

8

8.1

The elected local policing body for a police area must keep under review
whether and how criminal justice bodies which provide services in the police
area provide those services in accordance with the duty in  section 5 (1) .

8.2

The elected local policing body for a police area must, in particular,
undertake the following activities in such manner as may be prescribed—

8.2.a

provide the Secretary of State with information shared with it under  section
6 (2) (b) , or such of that information as may be prescribed;

8.2.b

participate in any review under  section 6 (2) (c) ;

8.2.c

provide the Secretary of State with such reports, on such matters in
connection with a review under  section 6 (2) (c) , as may be prescribed.

8.3

In  subsection (2) , “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

8.4

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may, in particular—

8.4.a

prescribe the times at which, or periods within which, information or a report
must be provided;

8.4.b

prescribe the form in which information or a report must be provided, or
require information or a report to be provided in such form as may be
specified in a notice issued from time to time by the Secretary of State.

8.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it is immaterial for these
purposes whether the consultation is carried out before or after this section
comes into force).

8.6

In this section, “ criminal justice body ” has the meaning given by  section 6
(6) .

##### Code awareness and reviewing compliance: British Transport Police

9

9.1

In this section—

      “ the Authority ” is the British Transport Police Authority;           “
the Chief Constable ” is the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police
Force;           “ relevant services ” are services provided in England and
Wales by the Chief Constable.

9.2

The Chief Constable must take reasonable steps to promote awareness of the
victims’ code among users of relevant services and other members of the
public.

9.3

The Chief Constable and the Authority must keep under review whether and how
relevant services are provided in accordance with the duty in  section 5 (1) .

9.4

The Chief Constable must, in particular, undertake the following activities in
such manner as may be prescribed—

9.4.a

collect prescribed information about the provision of relevant services;

9.4.b

share with the Authority prescribed information about the provision of
relevant services;

9.4.c

review with the Authority information shared under  paragraph (b) .

9.5

The Authority must, in particular, undertake the following activities in such
manner as may be prescribed—

9.5.a

provide the Secretary of State with the information shared with it under
subsection (4) (b) , or such of that information as may be prescribed;

9.5.b

participate in any review under  subsection (4) (c) ;

9.5.c

provide the Secretary of State with such reports, on such matters in
connection with a review under  subsection (4) (c) , as may be prescribed.

9.6

In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

9.7

Regulations under this section may, in particular—

9.7.a

prescribe different information in relation to different services;

9.7.b

prescribe information relating to the characteristics or experiences of users
of services;

9.7.c

prescribe the times at which, or periods within which, information must be
collected, shared or reviewed, or information or a report must be provided to
the Secretary of State;

9.7.d

prescribe the form in which information must be collected or shared, or
information or a report must be provided to the Secretary of State, or require
those things to be done in such form as may be specified in a notice issued
from time to time by the Secretary of State.

9.8

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it is immaterial for these
purposes whether the consultation is carried out before or after this section
comes into force).

##### Code awareness and reviewing compliance: Ministry of Defence Police

10

10.1

In this section—

      “ the Chief Constable ” is the Chief Constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police;           “ relevant services ” are services provided in
England and Wales by the Chief Constable.

10.2

The Chief Constable must take reasonable steps to promote awareness of the
victims’ code among users of relevant services and other members of the
public.

10.3

The Chief Constable and the Secretary of State must keep under review whether
and how relevant services are provided in accordance with the duty in  section
5 (1) .

10.4

The Chief Constable must, in particular, undertake the following activities in
such manner as may be prescribed—

10.4.a

collect prescribed information about the provision of relevant services;

10.4.b

share with the Secretary of State prescribed information about the provision
of relevant services;

10.4.c

review with the Secretary of State information shared under  paragraph (b) .

10.5

The Secretary of State must, in particular—

10.5.a

participate in any review under  subsection (4) (c) ;

10.5.b

prepare such reports, on such matters in connection with a review under
subsection (4) (c) , as may be prescribed.

10.6

In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

10.7

Regulations under this section may, in particular—

10.7.a

prescribe different information in relation to different services;

10.7.b

prescribe information relating to the characteristics or experiences of users
of services;

10.7.c

prescribe the times at which, or periods within which, information must be
collected, shared or reviewed;

10.7.d

prescribe the form in which information must be collected or shared, or
require information to be collected or shared in such form as may be specified
in a notice issued from time to time by the Secretary of State.

10.8

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it is immaterial for these
purposes whether the consultation is carried out before or after this section
comes into force).

##### Reviewing code compliance: Secretary of State and Attorney General

11

11.1

The Secretary of State and the Attorney General, acting jointly, must—

11.1.a

keep under review the code compliance of the persons mentioned in  subsection
(6) , and

11.1.b

annually, prepare and publish a report about the code compliance of those
persons in the period to which the report relates.

11.2

If the Secretary of State and the Attorney General agree that the code
compliance of a person mentioned in  subsection (6)  is unsatisfactory they
may—

11.2.a

if the person is the chief officer of police for a police area, give the
elected local policing body for the area a notice setting out their reasons
for being of that view;

11.2.b

in any other case, give the person a notice setting out their reasons for
being of that view.

11.3

If the Secretary of State and the Attorney General give a notice under
subsection (2)  they must—

11.3.a

if the notice is given under paragraph  (a)  of that subsection, send a copy
of the notice to the chief officer of police to whom the notice relates, and

11.3.b

in any case, publish the notice in such form and manner as they consider
appropriate.

11.4

The Secretary of State and the Attorney General must consult the Commissioner
for Victims and Witnesses before—

11.4.a

publishing a report under  subsection (1) (b) ;

11.4.b

giving a notice under  subsection (2) .

11.5

The Secretary of State must publish such compliance information as the
Secretary of State considers will enable members of the public to assess the
code compliance of the persons mentioned in  subsection (6)  in the period to
which the information relates.

11.6

The persons are—

11.6.a

each criminal justice body which provides services in a police area;

11.6.b

the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force;

11.6.c

the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police.

11.7

For the purposes of this section—

11.7.a

“ compliance information ” means information provided to the Secretary of
State under section  8 (2) (a) ,  9 (5) (a)  or  10 (4) (b) , or information
collected under arrangements mentioned in  section 7 ;

11.7.b

the “code compliance” of a person is whether and how the services provided by
the person in the relevant area are provided in accordance with the duty in
section 5 (1) .

11.8

In  subsection (7) (b) , “ relevant area ” means—

11.8.a

in relation to a criminal justice body which provides services in a police
area, that area;

11.8.b

in relation to the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force or
the Chief Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, England and Wales.

11.9

The first report under  paragraph (b)  of  subsection (1)  may relate to any
12 month period that includes the day on which that paragraph comes into
force.

11.10

Subsequent reports must relate to the 12 month period immediately following
the 12 month period to which the previous report relates.

11.11

The Secretary of State must lay each report before Parliament.

11.12

Information or a report published under this section—

11.12.a

must be published as soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of the
period to which it relates;

11.12.b

may be published in such form and manner as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

11.13

Where information published by the Secretary of State under  subsection (5)
relates to a particular police area, the elected local policing body for the
area must take reasonable steps to make members of the public in the area
aware of how to access the information.

11.14

In this section, “ criminal justice body ” has the meaning given by  section 6
(6) .

##### Guidance on code awareness and reviewing compliance

12

12.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance about the discharge of duties under
sections  6  to  11  (and any person subject to such a duty must have regard
to the guidance when discharging the duty).

12.2

The guidance may, in particular, include provision—

12.2.a

about ways of promoting awareness of the victims’ code (including different
provision in relation to users of services provided by a person and other
members of the public);

12.2.b

about the way in which information is collected (and in particular, how
information in relation to individuals who are under the age of 18 or who have
protected characteristics within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010 is
collected);

12.2.c

about the way in which information is shared and reviewed (including, where
meetings are held to review information, about the conduct of such meetings);

12.2.d

about the steps that an elected local policing body for a police area must
take, where  section 11 (13)  applies, to make members of the public aware of
how to access compliance information published by the Secretary of State which
relates to the police area.

12.3

Before issuing guidance under  this section , the Secretary of State must
consult the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses and such other persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it is immaterial for these
purposes whether the consultation is carried out before or after  this section
comes in force).

#### Collaboration in exercise of victim support functions

##### Duty to collaborate in exercise of victim support functions

13

13.1

The relevant authorities for a police area in England must collaborate with
each other in the exercise in the area of their functions in relation to
relevant victim support services.

13.2

A relevant authority exercises a function in relation to relevant victim
support services if it exercises the function in relation to—

13.2.a

the provision of such services, or

13.2.b

the commissioning of such services provided by another person.

13.3

The “relevant authorities” for a police area in England are—

13.3.a

the local policing body for the police area,

13.3.b

an integrated care board, established under Chapter A3 of Part 2 of the
National Health Service Act 2006, all or part of whose area falls within the
police area, and

13.3.c

a local authority, all or part of whose area falls within the police area.

13.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (c) , “ local authority ” means—

13.4.a

a county council,

13.4.b

a district council for an area for which there is no county council,

13.4.c

the Greater London Authority, or

13.4.d

the Council of the Isles of Scilly.

13.5

“ Relevant victim support service ” means a service, other than accommodation-
based support, provided to support victims of criminal conduct which
constitutes—

13.5.a

domestic abuse,

13.5.b

conduct of a sexual nature, or

13.5.c

serious violence.

13.6

In  subsection (5) , “ accommodation-based support ” and “ domestic abuse ”
have the same meanings as in the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (see sections 1 and
57 of that Act).

13.7

For the purposes of  subsection (5) (c) , “ violence ” includes—

13.7.a

violence against property, and

13.7.b

threats of violence,

but does not include terrorism within the meaning of the Terrorism Act 2000
(see section 1 of that Act).

13.8

In considering whether violence amounts to serious violence, the relevant
authorities must, in particular, take into account—

13.8.a

the maximum penalty which could be imposed for any offence which the conduct
constitutes, and

13.8.b

the impact of the conduct on any victim.

13.9

Collaboration under  this section  may include the processing of information
within the meaning given by section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018.

##### Strategy for collaboration in exercise of victim support functions

14

14.1

For the purposes of  section 13 , the relevant authorities for a police area
in England must together—

14.1.a

prepare a strategy for the exercise in the area of their functions in relation
to relevant victim support services,

14.1.b

set out in the strategy how they consider they are fulfilling, or intend to
fulfil, the duty under  section 13 , and

14.1.c

implement the strategy.

14.2

In preparing the strategy, the relevant authorities must—

14.2.a

make reasonable efforts to obtain the views of victims in the police area,

14.2.b

consult persons appearing to the relevant authorities to represent persons
providing relevant victim support services in the police area, and

14.2.c

consult such other persons as the relevant authorities consider appropriate.

14.3

In preparing the strategy, the relevant authorities must—

14.3.a

assess the needs of victims in the police area for relevant victim support
services,

14.3.b

assess whether and how those needs are being met by the services which are
available (whether or not provided by the relevant authorities), and

14.3.c

have regard to those assessments.

14.4

When making an assessment under  subsection (3) , the relevant authorities
must have regard to the particular needs of victims who are under the age of
18 or who have protected characteristics within the meaning of the Equality
Act 2010.

14.5

Once the strategy has been prepared the relevant authorities must—

14.5.a

publish the strategy,

14.5.b

keep the strategy under review, and

14.5.c

from time to time prepare a revised strategy.

14.6

Subsections (1)  to (5)  apply to a revised strategy as they apply to the
original strategy.

14.7

In this section, “relevant authority” and “relevant victim support service”
have the meanings given by  section 13 .

##### Guidance on collaboration in exercise of victim support functions

15

15.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance to assist relevant authorities for
police areas in England in the discharge of the duties under  sections 13  and
14  (and such authorities must have regard to the guidance when discharging
those duties).

15.2

Before issuing guidance under  this section , the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate (and it
is immaterial for these purposes whether the consultation is carried out
before or after  this section  comes in force).

15.3

In this section, “ relevant authority ” has the meaning given by  section 13
(3) .

#### Guidance about specified victim support roles

##### Guidance about specified victim support roles

16

16.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance about specified victim support
roles performed—

16.1.a

in England, and

16.1.b

subject to subsection  (2) , in Wales.

16.2

Guidance under this section must not relate to a matter provision about which
would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were
contained in an Act of the Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of
a Minister of the Crown imposed under Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales
Act 2006).

16.3

In this section—

      “ specified ” means specified in regulations made by the Secretary of
State;           “ victim support role ” means a role performed by individuals
which involves the provision of support to victims of criminal conduct (where
the support relates to that conduct).

16.4

A victim support role may be specified by reference to (among other matters)—

16.4.a

the circumstances in which the role is performed;

16.4.b

the type of support provided in connection with the role;

16.4.c

the type of criminal conduct in relation to which such support is provided.

16.5

Guidance under this section about a victim support role must include provision
about—

16.5.a

the support provided in connection with the role;

16.5.b

training and qualifications for individuals who perform the role;

16.5.c

how individuals who perform the role, and other persons who have functions
relating to victims or any aspect of the criminal justice system, work
together.

16.6

Guidance under this section must (where relevant) make provision in relation
to victims who are under the age of 18 or who have protected characteristics
within the meaning of the Equality Act 2010.

16.7

Any person who has functions of a public nature relating to victims, or any
aspect of the criminal justice system, must have regard to guidance under this
section where—

16.7.a

the person is exercising such a function, and

16.7.b

the guidance is relevant to the exercise of that function.

16.8

Subsection (7)  does not apply to—

16.8.a

anything done by any person acting in a judicial capacity, or on the
instructions of or on behalf of such a person;

16.8.b

a devolved Welsh authority, within the meaning of the Government of Wales Act
2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

#### Disclosures by victims that cannot be precluded by agreement

##### Disclosures by victims that cannot be precluded by agreement

17

17.1

A provision in an agreement is void in so far as it purports to preclude the
making of a disclosure falling within  subsection (2) .

17.2

A disclosure falls within this subsection if it is a disclosure of information
that is made by a victim or a person who reasonably believes they are a
victim—

17.2.a

to any person who has law enforcement functions, for the purpose of those
functions being exercised in relation to relevant conduct;

17.2.b

to a qualified lawyer, for the purpose of seeking legal advice about relevant
conduct;

17.2.c

to any individual who is entitled to practise a regulated profession, for the
purpose of obtaining professional support in relation to relevant conduct;

17.2.d

to any individual who provides a service to support victims, for the purpose
of obtaining support from that service in relation to relevant conduct;

17.2.e

to a regulator of a regulated profession for the purpose of co-operating with
the regulator in relation to relevant conduct;

17.2.f

to a person who is authorised to receive information on behalf of a person
mentioned in paragraph  (a) ,  (b) ,  (c) ,  (d)  or  (e) , for the purpose
mentioned in that paragraph;

17.2.g

to a child, parent or partner of the person making the disclosure, for the
purpose of obtaining support in relation to relevant conduct.

17.3

But a provision in an agreement is not void by virtue of  subsection (1)  so
far as it purports to preclude a disclosure made for the primary purpose of
releasing the information into the public domain.

17.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section—

17.4.a

to add, remove or modify a description of disclosure in relation to which
subsection (1)  applies (“a permitted disclosure”);

17.4.b

to extend the application of  subsection (1)  to a provision in an agreement
which purports to impose an obligation or liability in connection with a
permitted disclosure.

17.5

But regulations under  subsection (4) (a)  must not make any provision which
would apply  subsection (1)  in relation to a disclosure—

17.5.a

made by a person other than a victim or a person who reasonably believes they
are a victim, or

17.5.b

that does not relate to relevant conduct.

17.6

In this section—

      “ entitled to practise ”, in relation to a regulated profession, is to
be read in accordance with section 19(2) of the Professional Qualifications
Act 2022;           “ law enforcement functions ” means functions for the
purposes of the investigation or prosecution of criminal offences or the
execution of criminal penalties;           “ partner ”: a person is a
“partner” of another person if they are married to each other, in a civil
partnership with each other or in an intimate personal relationship with each
other which is of significant duration;           “ qualified lawyer ” means a
person who is an authorised person in relation to a reserved legal activity
for the purposes of the Legal Services Act 2007;           “ regulated
profession ” and “ regulator ” have the same meanings as in the Professional
Qualifications Act 2022 (see section 19 of that Act);           “ relevant
conduct ” means conduct by virtue of which the person making the disclosure is
or reasonably believes they are a victim (see  section 1 (1)  and  (2)  of
this Act).

#### Victims of domestic abuse

##### Restricting parental responsibility where one parent kills the other

18

18.1

The Children Act 1989 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (7)
.

18.2

In section 8 (child arrangements orders and other orders with respect to
children), in the closing words of subsection (3), after “include” insert
“proceedings in the Crown Court under  section 10A  or” .

18.3

After section 10 insert—

########### Duty of Crown Court to make prohibited steps order

18.3.10A

18.3.10A.1

This section applies where—

18.3.10A.1.a

a child has two parents at least one of whom has parental responsibility for
the child, and

18.3.10A.1.b

a parent who has parental responsibility for the child (“the offender”) is
convicted of the murder or, in the circumstances mentioned in  subsection (2)
, manslaughter of the other parent.

18.3.10A.2

The circumstances are where, but for section 54 of the Coroners and Justice
Act 2009 (loss of control) or section 2 of the Homicide Act 1957 (diminished
responsibility), the offender would have been liable to be convicted for
murder.

18.3.10A.3

The Crown Court must make a prohibited steps order when sentencing the
offender.

18.3.10A.4

The order must—

18.3.10A.4.a

specify that no step of any kind which could be taken by a parent in meeting
their parental responsibility for a child may be taken by the offender with
respect to the child without the consent of the High Court or the family
court, and

18.3.10A.4.b

be made to have effect until the order is varied or discharged by the High
Court or the family court.

18.3.10A.5

But the Crown Court must not make a prohibited steps order under this section
if—

18.3.10A.5.a

making the order is prohibited by section 29(3) of the Adoption and Children
Act 2002,

18.3.10A.5.b

a prohibited steps order is already in force that meets the requirements in
subsection (4) , or

18.3.10A.5.c

in a case where the offender is convicted of manslaughter, it appears to the
Crown Court that it would not be in the interests of justice to do so.

18.3.10A.6

Sections 1, 7 and 11 do not apply where the Crown Court proceeds under this
section.

18.3.10A.7

A prohibited steps order made under this section does not cease to have effect
if the offender is acquitted of the murder or manslaughter on appeal (but see
section 10B (3)  and  (4) ).

18.3.10A.8

A prohibited steps order made under this section is to be treated for the
purposes of section 31F(6) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984
(proceedings and decisions) as if it were made by the family court.

18.3.10A.9

The Crown Court does not have jurisdiction to entertain any proceedings in
connection with the enforcement of a prohibited steps order made under this
section.

########### Review of orders made under section 10A

18.3.10B

18.3.10B.1

This section applies where a prohibited steps order is made under  section 10A
prohibiting the taking of steps by a parent with respect to a child.

18.3.10B.2

The local authority that is the relevant local authority at the time the order
is made must make an application to the court (see section 92(7)) to review
the order.

18.3.10B.3

Subsection (4)  applies if—

18.3.10B.3.a

the application under  subsection (2)  has been disposed of (whether or not
the order was varied), and

18.3.10B.3.b

the parent is acquitted on appeal of the murder or manslaughter that resulted
in the making of the order.

18.3.10B.4

The local authority that is the relevant local authority at the time the
verdict of acquittal is entered must make an application to the court to
review the order.

18.3.10B.5

An application under this section must be made as soon as is reasonably
practicable and in any event before the end of the period of 14 days beginning
with the day after the day on which—

18.3.10B.5.a

in the case of an application under  subsection (2) , the order was made;

18.3.10B.5.b

in the case of an application under  subsection (4) , the verdict of acquittal
was entered.

18.3.10B.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the period specified in
subsection (5) .

18.3.10B.7

In this section “ relevant local authority ” means—

18.3.10B.7.a

where the child with respect to whom the order was made is ordinarily resident
within the area of a local authority in England or Wales, that local
authority;

18.3.10B.7.b

where the child with respect to whom the order was made does not fall within
paragraph (a)  but is present within the area of a local authority in England
or Wales, that local authority.

18.4

In section 9 (restrictions on making section 8 orders)—

18.4.a

in subsection (1), after “applies” insert  “or a prohibited steps order made
under  section 10A ” ;

18.4.b

in subsection (6A), after “applies” insert  “or a prohibited steps order made
under  section 10A ” ;

18.4.c

after subsection (7) insert—

18.4.c.8

Subsection (7) does not apply to a prohibited steps order made under  section
10A .

18.5

In section 33 (effect of care order), after subsection (3) insert—

18.5.3A

Where a prohibited steps order made under  section 10A  is in force in
relation to a parent, the authority may only exercise the power in subsection
(3)(b) in relation to the taking of a step by that parent that is not
prohibited by that order.

18.6

In section 91 (effect and duration of orders etc)—

18.6.a

in subsection (2), after “section 8 order” insert  “(other than a prohibited
steps order made under  section 10A )” ;

18.6.b

after subsection (5A) insert—

18.6.b.5B

Subsection (5C)  applies where—

18.6.b.5B.a

a prohibited steps order (the “ existing order ”) is in force prohibiting the
taking of steps by a parent (“ P ”) with respect to a child (“ C ”), and

18.6.b.5B.b

a prohibited steps order is made under  section 10A  in relation to P with
respect to C.

18.6.b.5C

The existing order is discharged (except to the extent that it prohibits the
taking of steps other than by P with respect to C).

18.7

In section 104 (regulations and orders)—

18.7.a

in each of subsections (2) and (3A), after “subsection” insert  “ (3AZA) ,” ;

18.7.b

after subsection (3A) insert—

18.7.b.3AZA

Regulations fall within this subsection if they are regulations made in the
exercise of the power conferred by  section 10B (6) .

18.8

In section 50 of the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 (meaning of “ sentence ”), after
subsection (2) insert—

18.8.2A

A prohibited steps order made under  section 10A  of the Children Act 1989 is
not a sentence for the purposes of this Act.

##### Domestic abuse related death reviews

19

19.1

The Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 is amended in accordance
with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

19.2

After section 8 insert—

########### Domestic abuse related death reviews

############ Establishment and conduct of reviews

19.2.8A

19.2.8A.1

In this section “ domestic abuse related death review ” means a review of the
circumstances of the death of a person which is held—

19.2.8A.1.a

where the death has, or appears to have, resulted from domestic abuse towards
the person within the meaning of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021, and

19.2.8A.1.b

with a view to identifying the lessons to be learned from the death.

19.2.8A.2

The Secretary of State may in a particular case direct a specified person or
body within  subsection (6)  to establish, or to participate in, a domestic
abuse related death review.

19.2.8A.3

It is the duty of any person or body within  subsection (6)  establishing or
participating in a domestic abuse related death review (whether or not held
pursuant to a direction under  subsection (2) ) to have regard to any guidance
issued by the Secretary of State as to the establishment and conduct of such
reviews.

19.2.8A.4

A person or body within  subsection (6)  that establishes a domestic abuse
related death review (whether or not held pursuant to a direction under
subsection (2) ) must send a copy of any report setting out the conclusions of
the review to the Secretary of State and the Domestic Abuse Commissioner.

19.2.8A.5

The copy must be sent as soon as reasonably practicable after the report is
completed.

19.2.8A.6

The persons and bodies within this subsection are—

      chief officers of police for police areas in England and Wales;
local authorities;           NHS England;           integrated care boards
established under section 14Z25 of the National Health Service Act 2006;
providers of probation services;           Local Health Boards established
under section 11 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;
NHS trusts established under section 25 of the National Health Service Act
2006 or section 18 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006.

19.2.8A.7

In  subsection (6)  “ local authority ” means—

19.2.8A.7.a

in relation to England, the council of a district, county or London borough,
the Common Council of the City of London and the Council of the Isles of
Scilly;

19.2.8A.7.b

in relation to Wales, the council of a county or county borough.

19.2.8A.8

The Secretary of State may by order amend  subsection (6)  or  (7) .

19.3

In section 9 (establishment and conduct of domestic homicide reviews)—

19.3.a

in each of subsections (2) and (3)—

19.3.a.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland” ;

19.3.a.ii

for “(4)” substitute  “(4)(b)” ;

19.3.b

omit subsections (3A), (3B), (3C), (4)(a), (5) and (6).

19.4

In section 61 (orders), in subsection (3), for “9(6)” substitute  “8A(8)” .

19.5

In section 26 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022
(relationship of offensive weapons homicide reviews with other review
requirements), in subsection (1)(b)—

19.5.a

after “of a” insert  “domestic abuse related death review or” ;

19.5.b

for “section” substitute  “sections 8A and” .

##### Child victims of domestic abuse

20

20.1

The Domestic Abuse Act 2021 is amended as follows.

20.2

After section 49 insert—

########### Notifying schools etc if child is suspected victim of domestic abuse

############ Arrangements to notify schools etc

20.2.49A

20.2.49A.1

A chief officer of police of a police force maintained for a police area must
ensure that arrangements are in place to secure the objective in  subsection
(2) .

20.2.49A.2

The objective is that, if a member of the force has reasonable grounds to
believe that a child who resides in the police area may be a victim of
domestic abuse, any relevant educational establishment is notified as soon as
is reasonably practicable except in such circumstances as may be specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

20.2.49A.3

For the purposes of this section, each of the following is a relevant
educational establishment in relation to a child—

20.2.49A.3.a

a school at which the child is a registered pupil;

20.2.49A.3.b

if the child is not a registered pupil at a school—

20.2.49A.3.b.i

if the child is receiving education at only one educational establishment,
that establishment;

20.2.49A.3.b.ii

if the child is receiving education at more than one educational
establishment, such one or more of those establishments as is determined in
accordance with the arrangements in place under  subsection (1)  for the
police area in which the child resides.

20.2.49A.4

In this section—

      “ child ” means a person under the age of 18 years;           “
educational establishment ” means—         a school in England or Wales;
an institution within the further education sector, within the meaning given
by section 91(3) of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992;           in
relation to England, a 16 to 19 Academy, within the meaning given by section
1B of the Academies Act 2010;                 “ registered pupil ”, in
relation to a school, has the meaning given by section 434 of the Education
Act 1996;           “ school ” has the meaning given by section 4 of the
Education Act 1996.

############ Power to extend 

20.2.49B

20.2.49B.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend  section 49A  so that the
objective in  subsection (2)  of that section applies in relation to childcare
providers, or childcare providers of particular descriptions, as it applies in
relation to relevant educational establishments.

20.2.49B.2

In this section—

      “ childcare ”—         in relation to England, has the meaning given by
section 18 of the Childcare Act 2006;           in relation to Wales, means
anything that amounts to child minding or day care for children for the
purposes of Part 2 of the  Children and Families (Wales) Measure 2010 (nawm 1)
(see section 19(2) to (5) of that Measure);                 “ childcare
provider ” means—         in relation to England, a person who provides
childcare—         in respect of which the person is registered under Part 3
of the Childcare Act 2006,           in respect of which the person would, but
for section 34(2) or 53(2) of that Act, be required to be registered under
Chapter 2 or 3 of Part 3 of that Act, or           in respect of which the
person would, but for section 63(3) of that Act, be able to be registered
under Chapter 4 of Part 3 of that Act;                 in relation to Wales, a
person who provides childcare in respect of which the person is registered
under Part 2 of the Children and Families (Wales) Measure 2010.

20.3

In the italic heading before section 50, for “and orders” substitute  “,
orders and notification arrangements” .

20.4

In section 56 (interpretation of Part 3), in subsection (4), after paragraph
(b) insert—

20.4.c

section 3 (children as victims of domestic abuse).

20.5

In section 87 (regulations), in subsection (6), after paragraph (a) insert—

20.5.aa

regulations under  section 49B ,

.

#### Victim impact statements to mental health tribunals (restricted patients)

##### Victim impact statements to mental health tribunals (restricted patients)

21

21.1

Chapter 2 of Part 3 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004
(victims’ rights to make representations and receive information) is amended
as follows.

21.2

In section 37(8)(c)(i), for “that area” substitute  “that local probation
board” .

21.3

After section 37 insert—

########### Victim impact statements where restriction order made

21.3.37ZA

21.3.37ZA.1

This section applies if, in a case where section 37 applies, an application or
reference mentioned in subsection (5) of that section is made to the First-
tier Tribunal or the Mental Health Review Tribunal for Wales.

21.3.37ZA.2

The relevant probation body—

21.3.37ZA.2.a

must take all reasonable steps to ascertain whether a person who appears to
the body to be the victim of the offence or to act for the victim of the
offence wishes to provide a victim impact statement to the body, and

21.3.37ZA.2.b

if the person provides such a statement, must forward it to the tribunal.

21.3.37ZA.3

Where a victim impact statement has been forwarded to the tribunal under
subsection (2) , the tribunal must—

21.3.37ZA.3.a

allow the person who made the statement to request permission to read the
statement to the tribunal at a relevant hearing, and

21.3.37ZA.3.b

grant such permission unless the tribunal considers that there are good
reasons not to.

21.3.37ZA.4

The tribunal may have regard to the statement when determining a matter
specified in section 36(5)(a) or (b) (but must not have regard to it for any
other purpose).

21.3.37ZA.5

In this section—

      “ relevant hearing ” means any hearing held by the tribunal before
making a decision which disposes of proceedings on the application or
reference mentioned in  subsection (1) ;           “ the relevant probation
body ” has the meaning given in section 37(8);           “ victim impact
statement ” means a statement about the way in which, and degree to which, the
offence has affected and (as the case may be) continues to affect the victim
or any other person.

#### Victims’ Commissioner

##### Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses

22

22.1

The Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 is amended as follows.

22.2

In section 49 (functions of Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses)—

22.2.a

in subsection (1)(c), for “section 32” substitute  “section 2 of the Victims
and Prisoners Act 2024, including the extent to which the duty in  section 5
(1)  of that Act (duty to provide services in accordance with the code) is
being complied with” ;

22.2.b

in subsection (2)(c), after “remit” insert  “(whether or not made by way of
inclusion in a report prepared under paragraph (b) or subsection (4))” ;

22.2.c

after subsection (4) insert—

22.2.c.4A

A report prepared under subsection (2)(b) or (4) may include provision making
recommendations to any authority within the Commissioner’s remit.

;

22.2.d

after subsection (5) insert—

22.2.d.5A

The Commissioner must arrange for each report prepared under subsection (4) to
be laid before Parliament.

22.3

After section 49 insert—

########### Duty to respond to Commissioner’s recommendations

22.3.49A

22.3.49A.1

This section applies where the Commissioner publishes a report under section
49(2)(b) or (4) containing recommendations to an authority within the
Commissioner’s remit.

22.3.49A.2

The relevant person must prepare comments on the report.

22.3.49A.3

The relevant person is—

22.3.49A.3.a

where the authority is a government department in the charge of a Minister of
the Crown, the Minister, or

22.3.49A.3.b

in any other case, the authority.

22.3.49A.4

The comments must include, in respect of each recommendation made in the
report, an explanation of—

22.3.49A.4.a

the action which the relevant person has taken, or proposes to take, in
response to the recommendation, or

22.3.49A.4.b

why the relevant person has not taken, or does not propose to take, any action
in response.

22.3.49A.5

The relevant person must arrange for the comments to be published in such
manner as the person considers appropriate.

22.3.49A.6

The comments must be published before the end of the period of 56 days
beginning with the day on which the report is published.

22.3.49A.7

The relevant person must send a copy of anything published under subsection
(6)  to—

22.3.49A.7.a

the Commissioner, and

22.3.49A.7.b

(unless the authority is a government department in the charge of a Minister
of the Crown) the Secretary of State.

22.4

After section 51 insert—

########### Duty to co-operate with Commissioner

22.4.51A

22.4.51A.1

The Commissioner may request a relevant person to co-operate with the
Commissioner in any way that the Commissioner considers necessary for the
purposes of the Commissioner’s functions.

22.4.51A.2

A relevant person must comply with a request made to the person under this
section, so far as it is appropriate and reasonably practicable for the person
to do so.

22.4.51A.3

In this section “ relevant person ” means a person who is not an individual
and is subject to the duty in  section 5 (1)  of the Victims and Prisoners Act
2024 (duty to provide services in accordance with the code issued under
section 2 of that Act).

22.5

In Schedule 9 (authorities within Commissioner’s remit)—

22.5.a

for paragraphs 1VA to 8B substitute—

22.5.a.1

A government department in the charge of a Minister of the Crown.

;

22.5.b

after paragraph 11 insert—

22.5.b.11A

A local policing body.

;

22.5.c

after paragraph 16 insert—

22.5.c.16A

His Majesty’s Inspectors of Constabulary.

;

22.5.d

after paragraph 29 insert—

22.5.d.29A

His Majesty's Chief Inspector of the Crown Prosecution Service.

22.5.d.29B

His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Prisons.

22.5.d.29C

His Majesty’s Inspectorate of Probation for England and Wales.

#### Inspections by criminal justice inspectorates

##### His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Prisons

23

23.1

Schedule A1 to the Prison Act 1952 (further provision about Chief Inspector)
is amended as follows.

23.2

In paragraph 2 (inspection programmes and frameworks), in sub-paragraph (2),
omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (i) and insert—

23.2.ia

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses, and

.

23.3

In paragraph 5 (joint action), after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

23.3.7

The Secretary of State, the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General may by a
joint direction require a joint inspection programme to include provision for
the inspection, at specified times, of specified matters relating to the
experiences and treatment of victims.

23.3.8

In sub-paragraph (7)—

      “ specified ” means specified in the direction;           “ victim ” has
the meaning given by  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

##### His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Constabulary

24

24.1

Schedule 4A to the Police Act 1996 (further provision about inspectors of
constabulary) is amended as follows.

24.2

In paragraph 2 (inspection programmes and frameworks), in sub-paragraph (2),
omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (i) and insert—

24.2.ia

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses, and

.

24.3

In paragraph 5 (joint action), after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

24.3.7

The Secretary of State, the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General may by a
joint direction require a joint inspection programme to include provision for
the inspection, at specified times, of specified matters relating to the
experiences and treatment of victims.

24.3.8

In sub-paragraph (7)—

      “ specified ” means specified in the direction;           “ victim ” has
the meaning given by  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

##### His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of the Crown Prosecution Service

25

25.1

The Schedule to the Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate Act 2000 (further
provision about Chief Inspector) is amended as follows.

25.2

In paragraph 2 (inspection programmes and frameworks), in sub-paragraph (2),
omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (i) and insert—

25.2.ia

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses, and

.

25.3

In paragraph 5 (joint action), after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

25.3.7

The Secretary of State, the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General may by a
joint direction require a joint inspection programme to include provision for
the inspection, at specified times, of specified matters relating to the
experiences and treatment of victims.

25.3.8

In sub-paragraph (7)—

      “ specified ” means specified in the direction;           “ victim ” has
the meaning given by  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

##### His Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Probation for England and Wales

26

26.1

Schedule 1A to the Criminal Justice and Court Services Act 2000 (further
provision about the inspectorate) is amended as follows.

26.2

In paragraph 2 (inspection programmes and frameworks), in sub-paragraph (2),
omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (i) and insert—

26.2.ia

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses, and

.

26.3

In paragraph 5 (joint action), after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

26.3.7

The Secretary of State, the Lord Chancellor and the Attorney General may by a
joint direction require a joint inspection programme to include provision for
the inspection, at specified times, of specified matters relating to the
experiences and treatment of victims.

26.3.8

In sub-paragraph (7)—

      “ specified ” means specified in the direction;           “ victim ” has
the meaning given by  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

#### Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration

##### Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration

27

27.1

The Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 is amended as follows.

27.2

Section 5 (matters subject to investigation) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

27.3

In subsection (1)—

27.3.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

27.3.a.a

a written complaint is duly made by a member of the public, who claims to have
sustained injustice in consequence of maladministration in connection with the
action so taken, to—

27.3.a.a.i

the Commissioner, if the complaint relates to the complainant’s experience as
a victim, or

27.3.a.a.ii

in any other case, a member of the House of Commons, and

;

27.3.b

in paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “in a case falling within paragraph
(a)(ii),” .

27.4

In subsection (1A)—

27.4.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

27.4.a.a

a written complaint is duly made by a member of the public, who claims that a
person has failed to perform a relevant duty owed by that person to the member
of the public, to—

27.4.a.a.i

the Commissioner, if the complaint relates to the complainant’s experience as
a victim, or

27.4.a.a.ii

in any other case, a member of the House of Commons, and

;

27.4.b

in paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “in a case falling within paragraph
(a)(ii),” .

27.5

After subsection (9A) insert—

27.5.9B

In this section “ victim ” has the meaning given by  section 1  of the Victims
and Prisoners Act 2024.

27.6

Section 6 (provisions relating to complaints) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (7)  to  (10) .

27.7

After subsection (1A) insert—

27.7.1B

A complaint under section 5(1)(a)(i) or (1A)(a)(i) may also be made by a
person who is authorised to act on behalf of the person aggrieved.

27.8

In subsection (2), for the words from “for himself” to the end substitute
“or, where subsection (1B) applies, to authorise another person to act, the
complaint may be made by the person’s personal representative, or by a member
of the person’s family, or by another individual suitable to represent the
person.”

27.9

After subsection (2) insert—

27.9.2A

Except as provided by subsections (1B) and (2), a complaint may not be
entertained under this Act unless made by the person aggrieved.

27.10

In subsection (3), omit “to a member of the House of Commons”.

27.11

Section 10 (Commissioner’s reports) is amended in accordance with subsections
(12)  to  (14) .

27.12

In subsection (1)—

27.12.a

for “under this Act” substitute  “pursuant to a complaint made to a member of
the House of Commons under section 5(1)(a)(ii) or (1A)(a)(ii),” ;

27.12.b

for “the House of Commons” substitute  “that House” .

27.13

After subsection (1) insert—

27.13.1A

In any case where the Commissioner conducts an investigation pursuant to a
complaint made to the Commissioner under section 5(1)(a)(i) or (1A)(a)(i), or
decides not to conduct such an investigation, the Commissioner—

27.13.1A.a

must send to the person who made the complaint a report of the results of the
investigation or, as the case may be, a statement of the Commissioner’s
reasons for not conducting an investigation, and

27.13.1A.b

may, with the consent of the person who made the complaint, send the report or
statement to such member of the House of Commons as the Commissioner considers
appropriate.

27.13.1B

References in subsection (1A) to the person who made the complaint are, in a
case where the complaint is made by a person authorised to act on behalf of
the person aggrieved (see section 6(1B)), to that authorised person.

27.14

In subsection (5)(d), after “subsection” insert  “(1A),” .

#### Information relating to victims

##### Information relating to victims

28

In Part 2 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (prevention,
investigation and prosecution of crime), after Chapter 3 insert—

######### Requests for information relating to victims

########## Requests for information relating to victims

28.44A

28.44A.1

A victim information request must be made in accordance with this Chapter.

28.44A.2

In this Chapter, a “ victim information request ” means a request by an
authorised person to another person to provide information which relates to a
third person who the authorised person has reason to believe is or may be—

28.44A.2.a

a victim, or

28.44A.2.b

at risk of being a victim.

28.44A.3

A victim information request may be made only if the authorised person—

28.44A.3.a

has reason to believe that the person to whom the request is made holds the
information sought,

28.44A.3.b

has reason to believe that the information sought is relevant to a reasonable
line of enquiry which is being pursued, or is to be pursued, by the authorised
person or another authorised person, and

28.44A.3.c

is satisfied that the request is necessary and proportionate to achieve the
purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or prosecuting crime.

28.44A.4

A counselling information request may be made only if the authorised person
has reason to believe that the information sought is likely to have
substantial probative value to a reasonable line of enquiry which is being
pursued, or is to be pursued, by the authorised person or another authorised
person.

28.44A.5

For the purposes of  subsection (4) , a “ counselling information request ”
means a victim information request to a person who provides counselling
services of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of
State by statutory instrument.

28.44A.6

The reference in  subsection (3) (c)  to crime is a reference to―

28.44A.6.a

conduct which constitutes one or more criminal offences in England and Wales,
or

28.44A.6.b

conduct which, if it took place in England and Wales, would constitute one or
more criminal offences.

28.44A.7

Subsection (8)  applies if the authorised person thinks that, in making the
request, there is a risk of obtaining information other than information
necessary to achieve a purpose within  subsection (3) (c) .

28.44A.8

The authorised person must, to be satisfied that the request is proportionate,
be satisfied that—

28.44A.8.a

there are no other means of obtaining the information sought, or

28.44A.8.b

there are such other means, but it is not reasonably practicable to use them.

28.44A.9

In making a victim information request or deciding whether to make such a
request (including giving notice under  section 44B  or deciding whether to
give such notice) an authorised person must have regard to the code of
practice for the time being in force under  section 44D .

28.44A.10

In this section “ victim ” has the meaning given by section 1 of the Victims
and Prisoners Act 2024.

28.44A.11

This section is subject to sections  44B  (notice requirements for victim
information requests) and  44C  (content of victim information requests).

28.44A.12

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (5)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

########## Notice requirements for victim information requests

28.44B

28.44B.1

The authorised person must (subject to  subsection (5) ) give notice of a
victim information request to the person to whom the information sought
relates (“ V ”).

28.44B.2

Notice under this section must be in writing—

28.44B.2.a

specifying or describing the information sought by the victim information
request,

28.44B.2.b

specifying the reason why the information is sought, and

28.44B.2.c

specifying how the information will be dealt with once it has been obtained.

28.44B.3

Notice under this section must be given—

28.44B.3.a

on or before the date on which the victim information request is made, or

28.44B.3.b

if that is not reasonably practicable, as soon as is reasonably practicable
after that date.

28.44B.4

If V is a child or an adult without capacity, notice under this section is
given to V by giving it to—

28.44B.4.a

a parent or guardian of V or, if V is in the care of a relevant authority or
voluntary organisation, a person representing that authority or organisation,
or

28.44B.4.b

if no person described in  paragraph (a)  is available, any adult who the
authorised person considers appropriate.

28.44B.5

The authorised person need not give notice under this section, or specify a
particular matter when giving notice, if the authorised person considers that
doing so―

28.44B.5.a

is not reasonably practicable in the circumstances,

28.44B.5.b

might interfere with the investigation or enquiry for which the information is
sought or any other investigation or enquiry which is being pursued, or is to
be pursued, by the authorised person or another authorised person, or

28.44B.5.c

might risk causing serious harm to V or another person.

28.44B.6

In this section―

      “ adult ” means a person aged 18 or over;           “ adult without
capacity ” means an adult who, within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act
2005, lacks capacity in relation to a notice under this section;           “
child ” means a person aged under 18;           “ harm ” includes physical,
mental or emotional harm and economic loss;           “ relevant authority ”—
in relation to England, means a county council, a district council for an area
for which there is no county council, a London borough council or the Common
Council of the City of London in its capacity as a local authority;
in relation to Wales, means a county council or a county borough council;
“ voluntary organisation ” means a body (other than a public authority) whose
activities are not carried on for profit.

########## Content of victim information requests

28.44C

28.44C.1

A victim information request must be in writing―

28.44C.1.a

specifying or describing the information sought,

28.44C.1.b

specifying the reason why the information is sought, and

28.44C.1.c

specifying how the information will be dealt with once it has been obtained.

28.44C.2

The authorised person need not specify the matters mentioned in  subsection
(1) (b)  or  (c)  if the authorised person considers that doing so―

28.44C.2.a

is not reasonably practicable in the circumstances,

28.44C.2.b

might interfere with the investigation or enquiry for which the information is
sought or any other investigation or enquiry which is being pursued, or is to
be pursued, by the authorised person or another authorised person, or

28.44C.2.c

might risk causing serious harm to the person to whom the information sought
relates or another person.

########## Code of practice

28.44D

28.44D.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a code of practice for authorised persons
about victim information requests and compliance with this Chapter.

28.44D.2

The code must in particular—

28.44D.2.a

provide that an authorised person must, when considering whether they are
satisfied as required by paragraph (c) of section 44A(3) in relation to a
counselling information request, start from the presumption that the request
is not necessary and proportionate to achieve a purpose in that paragraph, and

28.44D.2.b

set out the steps that must be taken by an authorised person when deciding
whether that presumption is rebutted.

28.44D.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , a “ counselling information request ”
has the meaning given by section 44A (5) .

28.44D.4

The code may make different provision for different purposes or areas.

28.44D.5

In preparing the code, the Secretary of State must consult―

28.44D.5.a

the Information Commissioner,

28.44D.5.b

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses,

28.44D.5.c

the Domestic Abuse Commissioner, and

28.44D.5.d

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

28.44D.6

After preparing the code, the Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament
and publish it.

28.44D.7

The code is to be brought into force by regulations made by statutory
instrument.

28.44D.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (7)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

28.44D.9

After the code has come into force the Secretary of State may from time to
time revise it.

28.44D.10

A failure on the part of an authorised person to act in accordance with the
code does not of itself render the person liable to any criminal or civil
proceedings.

28.44D.11

But the code is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceedings and a
court may take into account a failure to act in accordance with it in
determining a question in the proceedings.

28.44D.12

References in subsections  (2)  to  (11)  to the code include a revised code,
subject to  subsection (13) .

28.44D.13

The duty to consult in  subsection (5)  does not apply in relation to the
preparation of a revised code if the Secretary of State considers that the
proposed revisions are insubstantial.

########## Authorised persons

28.44E

28.44E.1

In this Chapter, each of the following is an “authorised person”—

28.44E.1.a

a constable of a police force in England and Wales;

28.44E.1.b

a member of staff appointed by the chief officer of police of a police force
in England and Wales;

28.44E.1.c

an employee of the Common Council of the City of London who is under the
direction and control of a chief officer of police;

28.44E.1.d

a constable of the British Transport Police Force;

28.44E.1.e

an employee of the British Transport Police Authority appointed under section
27 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003;

28.44E.1.f

a constable of the Ministry of Defence police;

28.44E.1.g

a National Crime Agency officer;

28.44E.1.h

a person designated by the Director General of the Independent Office for
Police Conduct under paragraph 19(2) of Schedule 3 to the Police Reform Act
2002;

28.44E.1.i

a person who has been engaged to provide services consisting of or including
the obtaining of information for the purposes of the exercise of functions by
a person mentioned in any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (h) .

28.44E.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
subsection (1) —

28.44E.2.a

so as to add a reference to a person;

28.44E.2.b

so as to remove a reference to a person;

28.44E.2.c

so as to modify a description of a person mentioned.

28.44E.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may contain transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

28.44E.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (2) (a)  or
(b)  (whether alone or with other provision) may not be made unless a draft of
the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House
of Parliament.

28.44E.5

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

##### Information relating to victims: service police etc

29

After section 44E of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022
(inserted by  section 28  of this Act), insert—

######### Application of this Chapter to service police etc

29.44F

29.44F.1

This Chapter applies in relation to a person mentioned in  subsection (2)  as
it applies in relation to an authorised person, with the modifications
specified in subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

29.44F.2

The persons are—

29.44F.2.a

a member of the Royal Navy Police, the Royal Military Police or the Royal Air
Force Police;

29.44F.2.b

a person designated by the Service Police Complaints Commissioner under
regulation 36(2) of the Service Police (Complaints etc) Regulations 2023 (
S.I. 2023/624 );

29.44F.2.c

a person who has been engaged to provide services consisting of or including
the obtaining of information for the purposes of the exercise of functions by
a person mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) .

29.44F.3

Section 44A  applies as if for subsection (6) there were substituted—

29.44F.3.6

The reference in  subsection (3) (c)  to crime is a reference to conduct which
constitutes one or more—

29.44F.3.6.a

service offences within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006, or

29.44F.3.6.b

SDA offences within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional
Provisions etc) Order 2009 ( S.I. 2009/1059 ).

29.44F.4

Section 44B  applies as if, in  subsection (6) —

29.44F.4.a

for the definition of “adult without capacity” there were substituted—

      “ adult without capacity ”—         in relation to England and Wales,
means an adult who, within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005, lacks
capacity in relation to a notice under this section;           in relation to
Scotland, means an adult (within the meaning of this section) who is
incapable, within the meaning of the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act
2000, in relation to a notice under this section;           in relation to
Northern Ireland, means an adult who, within the meaning of the Mental
Capacity Act (Northern Ireland) 2016, lacks capacity in relation to a notice
under this section;

;

29.44F.4.b

for the definition of “relevant authority” there were substituted—

      “ relevant authority ”—         in relation to England, means a county
council, a district council for an area for which there is no county council,
a London borough council or the Common Council of the City of London in its
capacity as a local authority;           in relation to Wales, means a county
council or a county borough council;           in relation to Scotland, means
a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc (Scotland)
Act 1994;           in relation to Northern Ireland, means an authority within
the meaning of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I. 1995/755
(N.I. 2) );

;

29.44F.4.c

for the definition of “voluntary organisation” there were substituted—

      “ voluntary organisation ”—         in relation to England and Wales,
has the same meaning as in the Children Act 1989;           in relation to
Scotland, has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Children (Scotland) Act
1995;           in relation to Northern Ireland, has the same meaning as in
the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995.

##### Review of provisions relating to counselling information requests

30

30.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a report about the operation in the review
period of Chapter 3A of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022
(requests for information relating to victims) (inserted by  section 28  of
this Act) in relation to counselling information requests.

30.2

The Secretary of State may discharge the duty in  subsection (1)  by arranging
for another person to prepare a report about those matters.

30.3

As soon as is reasonably practicable after the end of the review period, the
Secretary of State must—

30.3.a

arrange for the report prepared under  subsection (1)  (or under arrangements
under  subsection (2) ) to be published, and

30.3.b

lay the report before Parliament.

30.4

In this section—

      “ counselling information request ” has the meaning given by section
44A(5) of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022;           “
review period ” means the period of three years beginning with the day on
which  section 28  of this Act comes into force.

##### Right to erasure of personal data in the UK

31

31.1

Article 17 of  Regulation (EU) 2016/679  of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to
the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data (right
to erasure) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

31.2

In paragraph 1, after point (f) insert—

31.2.g

the personal data have been processed as a result of an allegation about the
data subject—

31.2.g.i

which was made by a person who is a malicious person in relation to the data
subject (whether they became such a person before or after the allegation was
made),

31.2.g.ii

which has been investigated by the controller, and

31.2.g.iii

in relation to which the controller has decided that no further action is to
be taken.

31.3

After paragraph 3 insert—

31.3.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1) (g) , a person who has made an allegation
about a data subject is a “ malicious person ” in relation to the data subject
if the person—

31.3.4.a

has been convicted of an offence specified in column 1 of the table in
paragraph 5  in relation to which the data subject is a person specified in
the corresponding entry in column 2 of that table, or

31.3.4.b

is subject to a stalking protection order under section 2 of the Stalking
Protection Act 2019 or section 8 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern
Ireland)  2022 (c. 17 (N.I.))  made to protect the data subject from a risk
associated with stalking (see section 2(1)(c) of the 2019 Act and section
8(2)(c) of the 2022 Act).

31.3.5

The table is as follows—

      Offence Data subject   1. An offence under section 2 of the Protection
from Harassment Act 1997 (offence of harassment: England and Wales) A person
mentioned in section 1(1)(a) or 1(1A)(a) of that Act 2. An offence under
section 2A, 4 or 4A of the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (other
harassment and stalking offences: England and Wales) The person against whom
the offence is committed 3. An offence under section 8 of the Stalking
Protection Act 2019 (offence of breaching stalking protection order etc) A
person who the stalking protection order was made to protect from a risk
associated with stalking (see section 2(1)(c) of that Act) 4. An offence under
section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 as respects which the corresponding
offence under the law of England and Wales (within the meaning given by that
section) is an offence specified in entry 1, 2 or 3 of this table A person
specified in column 2 of the entry in which the corresponding offence is
specified 5. An offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or Air Force Act
1955 as respects which the corresponding civil offence (within the meaning of
that Act) is an offence specified in entry 1 or 2 of this table A person
specified in column 2 of the entry in which the corresponding civil offence is
specified 6. An offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957 as
respects which the civil offence (within the meaning of that section) is an
offence specified in entry 1 or 2 of this table A person specified in column 2
of the entry in which the civil offence is specified 7. An offence under
section 39 of the Criminal Justice and Licensing (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 13)
(stalking offences: Scotland) The person against whom the offence is committed
8. An offence under section 1 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022 (stalking offences: Northern Ireland) The person against whom
the offence is committed 9. An offence under section 13 of the Protection from
Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 (offence of breaching order: Northern
Ireland) A person who the stalking protection order was made to protect from a
risk associated with stalking (see section 8(2)(c) of that Act) 10. An offence
under Article 4 or 6 of the Protection from Harassment (Northern Ireland)
Order 1997 ( S.I. 1997/1180 (N.I. 9) ) (harassment offences: Northern Ireland)
The person against whom the offence is committed

31.4

After section 13 of the Data Protection Act 2018 insert—

########### Meaning of “relevant offence” for purpose of right to erasure

31.4.13A

31.4.13A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the table in Article 17( 5 )
of the UK GDPR.

31.4.13A.2

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Data protection

##### Data protection

32

32.1

Nothing in  this Part  requires or authorises the processing of information if
the processing would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether it would do so, take into account any duty imposed or
power conferred by  this Part ).

32.2

For these purposes—

32.2.a

references to  this Part  include regulations made under  this Part , the
victims’ code and guidance issued under  this Part ;

32.2.b

“processing” and “the data protection legislation” have the same meanings as
in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

#### Consequential provision

##### Consequential provision

33

33.1

Chapter 1 of Part 3 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 (the
victims’ code) is repealed (and the code of practice issued under section 32
of that Act ceases to be in operation).

33.2

The following amendments are made in consequence of  subsection (1) .

33.3

In the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967, in section 5(1B)(a), for “section
32 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004” substitute  “ section
2  of the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024” .

33.4

In the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004, in section 54
(disclosure of information)—

33.4.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “section 32” substitute  “ section 2  of the Victims
and Prisoners Act 2024” ;

33.4.b

in subsection (3)(a), for “required to do anything under the code issued under
section 32” substitute  “who is subject to the duty in  section 5 (1)  of the
Victims and Prisoners Act 2024 (duty to provide services in accordance with
victims’ code)” .

### Victims of major incidents

#### Meaning of “major incident” etc

##### Meaning of “major incident” etc

34

34.1

This Part concerns advocates for victims of major incidents.

34.2

In this Part, “ major incident ” means an incident that—

34.2.a

occurs in England or Wales after this section comes into force,

34.2.b

causes the death of, or serious harm to, a significant number of individuals,
and

34.2.c

is declared in writing by the Secretary of State to be a major incident for
the purposes of this Part.

34.3

Before declaring an incident that occurs in Wales to be a major incident, the
Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers.

34.4

For the purposes of this Part, “ harm ” includes physical, mental or emotional
harm.

34.5

In this Part, “ victims ”, in relation to a major incident, means—

34.5.a

individuals who have suffered harm as a direct result of the incident (whether
or not that harm is serious harm), and

34.5.b

close family members or close friends of individuals who have died or suffered
serious harm as a direct result of the incident.

34.6

In this Part, “ advocate ” means—

34.6.a

the standing advocate appointed under section  35 (1) ;

34.6.b

an individual appointed as an advocate in respect of a major incident under
section 36 (1) .

34.7

But a reference in this Part to an advocate appointed in respect of a major
incident includes the standing advocate only if the standing advocate has been
appointed in respect of that incident under  section 36 (1) .

#### Appointment of advocates

##### Appointment of standing advocate

35

35.1

The Secretary of State must appoint an individual as the standing advocate for
victims of major incidents (in this Part, “the standing advocate”).

35.2

The functions of the standing advocate are—

35.2.a

to advise the Secretary of State as to the interests of victims of major
incidents, and their treatment by public authorities in response to major
incidents;

35.2.b

to advise other advocates as to the exercise of the functions of those
advocates;

35.2.c

to make reports in accordance with  section 41 .

35.3

The standing advocate may take such steps as the standing advocate considers
are—

35.3.a

appropriate to facilitate the exercise of, or

35.3.b

incidental or conducive to,

the functions of the standing advocate or another advocate.

35.4

An individual may be appointed as the standing advocate only if the Secretary
of State considers that the individual is qualified, taking into account—

35.4.a

the individual’s academic, professional or other qualifications, experience or
skills;

35.4.b

any other matter the Secretary of State considers relevant.

35.5

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (a) , “ public authority ” includes—

35.5.a

a court, tribunal, coroner, or inquiry panel within the meaning of section 3
of the Inquiries Act 2005, and

35.5.b

any other person certain of whose functions are functions of a public nature,

but does not include the Security Service, the Secret Intelligence Service or
the Government Communications Headquarters.

##### Appointment of advocates in respect of major incidents

36

36.1

The Secretary of State may appoint an individual to act as an advocate for
victims of a major incident.

36.2

Before appointing an advocate in respect of a major incident that occurs in
Wales, the Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers.

36.3

An individual may be appointed as an advocate in respect of a major incident
only if—

36.3.a

the individual is the standing advocate, or

36.3.b

the Secretary of State considers that the individual—

36.3.b.i

is qualified, and

36.3.b.ii

is appropriate to appoint in respect of the incident.

36.4

An individual may be qualified by virtue of—

36.4.a

their academic, professional or other qualifications, experience or skills;

36.4.b

their relationship with a geographical or other community;

36.4.c

any other matter the Secretary of State considers relevant.

36.5

In determining whether an individual is appropriate to appoint as an advocate
in respect of a major incident, the Secretary of State may have regard to—

36.5.a

the geographical area in which the incident occurs;

36.5.b

any community affected by the incident;

36.5.c

the relevance of the individual’s qualifications, experience or skills to the
incident and the matters in paragraphs  (a)  and  (b) ;

36.5.d

any other matter the Secretary of State considers relevant.

##### Terms of appointment

37

37.1

Subject to the following provisions of this section, an individual is to be
appointed as an advocate on terms agreed between the individual and the
Secretary of State.

37.2

The appointment may be terminated—

37.2.a

by the Secretary of State on such grounds as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate;

37.2.b

by the advocate giving notice of their resignation to the Secretary of State;

37.2.c

otherwise in accordance with the terms of the advocate’s appointment.

37.3

The Secretary of State may pay to or in respect of an advocate—

37.3.a

such remuneration as the Secretary of State considers appropriate;

37.3.b

reasonable costs incurred by the advocate in connection with the exercise of
their functions, including those incurred in connection with proceedings
relating to the exercise (or purported exercise) of those functions;

37.3.c

such other sums by way of allowances or gratuities as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

37.4

The Secretary of State may make provision for an advocate to have secretarial
or other support in connection with the exercise of their functions.

37.5

An advocate is not to be regarded as the servant or agent of the Crown or as
enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

##### Appointment of more than one advocate in respect of same major incident

38

38.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State appoints more than one
advocate in respect of the same major incident.

38.2

The Secretary of State must appoint one of the advocates as the lead advocate
in respect of that incident.

38.3

An advocate appointed in respect of the incident must have regard to any
directions given by the lead advocate as to how they are to exercise their
functions in respect of the incident.

#### Functions and powers of advocates in respect of major incidents

##### Functions of advocates appointed in respect of major incidents

39

39.1

This section applies where an advocate is appointed in respect of a major
incident.

39.2

Where more than one advocate is appointed in respect of the incident,
references in this section to “the advocate” are to each advocate individually
and any number of them (including all of them) acting jointly.

39.3

Subject to the terms of their appointment, the advocate may provide such
support to victims of the incident as the advocate considers appropriate in
relation to—

39.3.a

the aftermath of the incident;

39.3.b

an investigation by a public authority into the incident;

39.3.c

an inquest under the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 into a death the incident
may have caused or contributed to;

39.3.d

an inquiry into the incident under the Inquiries Act 2005.

39.4

The support provided under subsection  (3)  may include, for example—

39.4.a

helping victims understand the actions of public authorities in relation to
the incident, and how the views of victims may be taken into account;

39.4.b

informing victims about other sources of support and advice, and services,
that may be available in connection with the incident;

39.4.c

communicating with public authorities on behalf of victims in relation to the
incident;

39.4.d

assisting victims to access documents or other information in relation to an
investigation, inquest or inquiry referred to in subsection  (3)  (to the
extent that victims are, or a particular victim is, entitled to such access).

39.5

The advocate may provide support to victims by providing support to such
persons as the advocate considers represent one or more victims, including
where those persons are not victims themselves.

39.6

Where the advocate provides support to victims under the age of 18, the
advocate may do so only by providing support to such persons as the advocate
considers represent those victims.

39.7

A person may not represent victims for the purposes of this Part if the
person—

39.7.a

is an individual under the age of 18, or

39.7.b

would, in representing victims, carry on a legal activity.

39.8

The advocate may not, in supporting victims—

39.8.a

carry on a legal activity;

39.8.b

provide financial support to any person;

39.8.c

provide health care to any person.

39.9

Nothing in this Part confers a right on any person to require the advocate to
provide support, or support of a particular type, to that person or any other
person.

39.10

In this section—

      “ health care ” includes all forms of health care, whether relating to
physical or mental health;           “ legal activity ” has the meaning given
by section 12(3) of the Legal Services Act 2007;           “ public authority
” has the same meaning as in section  35 (2) (a)  (see section  35 (5) ).

##### Role of advocates under Part 1 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009

40

In section 47(2) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (interested persons in
relation to a deceased person or investigation or inquest into a death), after
paragraph (ka) insert—

40.kb

where an advocate has been appointed under  section 36 (1)  of the Victims and
Prisoners Act 2024 in respect of an incident which may have caused or
contributed to the death of the deceased—

40.kb.i

each advocate that has been appointed under that section in respect of that
incident, and

40.kb.ii

the standing advocate appointed under  section 35 (1)  of that Act;

.

#### Functions and powers of advocates: general

##### Reports to the Secretary of State

41

41.1

The standing advocate must, in respect of each calendar year, report to the
Secretary of State as to—

41.1.a

the exercise of the standing advocate’s functions in that year;

41.1.b

such matters as the Secretary of State may require in writing;

41.1.c

such other matters as the standing advocate considers relevant to their
functions or the functions of another advocate.

41.2

A report under  subsection (1)  must be made by 1 July in the calendar year
following the year in respect of which the report is made.

41.3

If the Secretary of State gives notice under subsection  (4)  to an advocate,
the advocate must report to the Secretary of State—

41.3.a

if specified in the notice, the advocate’s opinions as to the treatment of
victims in the course of an investigation, inquest or inquiry referred to in
section  39 (3) ;

41.3.b

such other matters relating to the advocate’s exercise of their functions as
the Secretary of State specifies in the notice.

41.4

A notice under this subsection must specify—

41.4.a

that the Secretary of State requires a report under  subsection (3) ;

41.4.b

the matters the Secretary of State requires the report to address.

41.5

The notice may require the advocate to report within such reasonable period as
may be specified in the notice (or such other period as may be agreed).

41.6

A report made under  subsection (3)  may include any matters the advocate
considers relevant to—

41.6.a

a major incident in respect of which they are appointed, or

41.6.b

in the case of the standing advocate, any major incident,

whether or not the matters have been specified in a notice under subsection
(4) .

41.7

An advocate may, at their discretion and at any time, report to the Secretary
of State such matters as the advocate considers relevant to—

41.7.a

a major incident in respect of which they are appointed, or

41.7.b

in the case of the standing advocate, any major incident.

41.8

If more than one advocate has been appointed in respect of the same major
incident—

41.8.a

the Secretary of State may give notice under  subsection (4)  in relation to
the incident only to the lead advocate;

41.8.b

only the lead advocate may make a report under  subsection (7)  in relation to
the incident.

##### Publication of reports

42

42.1

The Secretary of State must publish a copy of a report made under  section 41
if—

42.1.a

it is made by the standing advocate under  section 41 (1)  (annual reports),

42.1.b

it is made by an advocate under  section 41 (3)  (reports required by the
Secretary of State), or

42.1.c

it is made by an advocate under  section 41 (7)  (reports at discretion of
advocate), and the advocate making the report requests in writing that the
report is published.

42.2

The copy may be published in such manner as the Secretary of State thinks fit.

42.3

But material may be omitted from the copy if the Secretary of State considers
that the publication of that material would—

42.3.a

risk death or injury to any person,

42.3.b

risk damage to national security or international relations,

42.3.c

risk damage to the economic interests of the United Kingdom or of any part of
the United Kingdom,

42.3.d

risk damage caused by disclosure of commercially sensitive information,

42.3.e

breach any conditions as to confidentiality subject to which the advocate
making the report acquired the material,

42.3.f

contravene the data protection legislation (within the meaning given by
section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018), or

42.3.g

prejudice—

42.3.g.i

the investigation or prosecution of an offence,

42.3.g.ii

an inquiry under the Inquiries Act 2005,

42.3.g.iii

an inquest under the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, or

42.3.g.iv

any other investigation or inquiry by a person exercising functions of a
public nature.

42.4

The Secretary of State must lay a copy of a report as published under this
section before Parliament.

##### Information sharing and data protection

43

43.1

An advocate may, to the extent the advocate considers appropriate, share
information received in the exercise of their functions with—

43.1.a

the standing advocate;

43.1.b

any other advocate appointed in respect of the same major incident;

43.1.c

the Secretary of State;

43.1.d

any other person exercising functions of a public nature;

43.1.e

a victim of a major incident in respect of which the advocate is appointed.

43.2

A person exercising functions of a public nature may share such information as
the person considers appropriate with an advocate for the purposes of the
advocate exercising their functions.

43.3

An advocate may use information received in the exercise of their functions
only for the purpose of exercising their functions.

43.4

The information referred to in this section may comprise or include personal
data.

43.5

This section does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed apart from this Part.

43.6

Except as provided by  subsection (7) , a disclosure of information under this
Part does not breach—

43.6.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person disclosing the information, or

43.6.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

43.7

Nothing in this Part requires or authorises the processing of information if
the processing would contravene the data protection legislation (but, in
determining whether it would do so, the powers conferred by this Part are to
be taken into account).

43.8

In this section, “ personal data ”, “ processing ” and “ the data protection
legislation ” have the meanings given by section 3 of the Data Protection Act
2018.

#### Guidance for advocates

##### Guidance for advocates

44

44.1

The Secretary of State may issue guidance as to the matters to which an
advocate appointed in respect of a major incident must have regard in
exercising their functions.

44.2

Guidance under this section—

44.2.a

must not be directed at any specific advocate or relate to a specific major
incident;

44.2.b

may be withdrawn or revised at any time.

44.3

An advocate appointed in respect of a major incident must, to the extent
relevant to the terms of their appointment and to the incident in respect of
which they are appointed, have regard to the matters stated in guidance under
this section.

#### Consequential amendments

##### Consequential amendments

45

45.1

In paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act 1958 (establishments
and organisations whose records are public records), in Part 2 of the Table,
at the appropriate place insert—

      An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under  Part 2  of
the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

45.2

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (departments etc
subject to investigation), at the appropriate place insert—

      An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under  Part 2  of
the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

45.3

In Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 (offices
disqualifying from membership of the House of Commons), in Part 3, at the
appropriate place insert—

      An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under  Part 2  of
the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

45.4

In Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (public authorities), in
Part 6, at the appropriate place insert—

      An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under  Part 2  of
the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

45.5

In Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (public authorities), in Part 1, after
“A government department other than the Security Service, the Secret
Intelligence Service or the Government Communications Headquarters.” insert—

########### Advocates for victims of major incidents

        An advocate for victims of major incidents appointed under  Part 2  of
the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

#### Reviews

##### Review of duty of candour in relation to major incidents

46

46.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must, before 1
January 2025, carry out a review to determine the extent to which additional
duties of transparency and candour should be imposed on public servants in
relation to major incidents.

46.2

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may discharge
the duty in subsection  (1)  by arranging for another person to carry out the
review.

46.3

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the completion of the review—

46.3.a

prepare, or arrange for another person to prepare, a report about the review,

46.3.b

publish the report, and

46.3.c

lay the report before Parliament.

46.4

In this section, “ public servant ” means—

46.4.a

a public authority within the meaning given by  section 35 (2) (a)  (see
section 35 (5) );

46.4.b

any person exercising the functions of a public authority (including as an
employee of a public authority or as a person in the civil service of the
State).

##### Review of operation of Part 2

47

47.1

The Secretary of State must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end
of the review period—

47.1.a

prepare and publish a report about the operation in the review period of this
Part, and

47.1.b

lay the report before Parliament.

47.2

The “review period” is the period of 18 months beginning with the day on which
the power in  section 36 (1)  (appointment of advocate in respect of major
incident) is first exercised.

### Infected blood compensation

#### Infected Blood Compensation Authority

48

48.1

A body corporate called the Infected Blood Compensation Authority is
established.

48.2

In this Part that body is referred to as “ the IBCA ”.

48.3

Schedule 1  contains further provision about the IBCA.

#### Infected blood compensation scheme

49

49.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must by
regulations within three months of the passing of this Act establish a scheme
(the “infected blood compensation scheme”) for making payments to eligible
persons.

49.2

“ Eligible persons ” means such persons within subsection  (3)  as the
regulations provide are to be eligible persons.

49.3

The persons within this subsection are persons who—

49.3.a

have been infected as a result of being treated with blood, blood products or
tissue,

49.3.b

have been infected as a result of another person being treated with blood,
blood products or tissue, or

49.3.c

have been affected by another person being infected as described in  paragraph
(a)  or  (b) .

49.4

The regulations may define an eligible person by reference to matters
including (but not limited to)—

49.4.a

the kind of infection;

49.4.b

the duration or effect of an infection;

49.4.c

when the treatment occurred;

49.4.d

where the treatment was given;

49.4.e

who gave the treatment;

49.4.f

whether a person was treated with blood, blood products or tissue;

49.4.g

in the case of a person within subsection  (3) (b) , how the person was
infected and their connection with the person who was treated;

49.4.h

in the case of a person within subsection  (3) (c) , how the person has been
affected and their connection with the person who has been infected.

49.5

The regulations must provide for payments under the scheme to be made by, and
the scheme to be otherwise administered by, the IBCA.

#### Payments

50

50.1

The amount of a payment under the infected blood compensation scheme is to be
determined in accordance with regulations under section  49 .

50.2

The regulations may make provision for the amount payable to eligible persons—

50.2.a

to be a specified amount;

50.2.b

to be an amount within a specified range;

50.2.c

not to exceed a specified amount.

50.3

The regulations may make provision—

50.3.a

for payments to be made as a lump sum or periodically;

50.3.b

for payments to be held on trust;

50.3.c

for interest to be payable on payments;

50.3.d

for the amount of any periodic payment to be increased to take account of
changes in the value of money.

50.4

The regulations may make provision for payments to be made subject to
conditions.

50.5

The regulations may make provision for payments under the scheme to be repaid
to the IBCA (in whole or in part) in specified circumstances.

50.6

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

#### Applications and procedure

51

Regulations under section  49  may deal with the procedure for the making and
deciding of applications for payments under the infected blood compensation
scheme and, in particular, may—

51.a

impose time limits for making an application or taking other steps;

51.b

make provision about evidence.

#### Reviews and appeals

52

52.1

Regulations under section  49 —

52.1.a

may make provision for the IBCA to review decisions taken under the infected
blood compensation scheme;

52.1.b

must confer a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against a decision
taken under the scheme.

52.2

If the regulations make provision under subsection  (1) (a) , they may provide
for the right of appeal to be exercisable only if the IBCA has reviewed the
decision.

#### Information: infected blood compensation scheme

53

53.1

The IBCA may provide information to another person, and a person may provide
information to the IBCA, for the purposes of any matter connected with the
administration of the infected blood compensation scheme.

53.2

The IBCA may by notice in writing require a person to provide information to
the IBCA for the purposes of any matter connected with the administration of
the infected blood compensation scheme.

53.3

If a person fails to comply with a notice under subsection  (2) , the IBCA may
apply to the appropriate court for an order requiring the person to comply
with the notice.

53.4

The information referred to in this section may comprise or include personal
data.

53.5

This section does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed apart from this section.

53.6

Except as provided by subsection  (7) , a disclosure of information authorised
by or required under this section does not breach—

53.6.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

53.6.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

53.7

This section does not authorise or require the processing of information if
the processing would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether it would do so, take into account the powers conferred and
duties imposed by this section).

53.8

In this section—

      “ the appropriate court ” means—         in England and Wales and
Northern Ireland, the High Court;           in Scotland, the Court of Session;
“personal data”, “processing” and “ the data protection legislation ” have the
meanings given by section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018.

#### Duty to co-operate with the IBCA

54

54.1

Each relevant person must co-operate with the IBCA on any matter connected
with the making of payments to persons in connection with those persons, or
other persons, being treated with infected blood, infected blood products or
infected tissue.

54.2

The relevant persons are—

54.2.a

the Secretary of State;

54.2.b

the Minister for the Cabinet Office;

54.2.c

a Special Health Authority established under section 28 of the National Health
Service Act 2006;

54.2.d

the Welsh Ministers;

54.2.e

a National Health Service trust established under section 18 of the National
Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;

54.2.f

a Special Health Authority established under section 22 of the National Health
Service (Wales) Act 2006;

54.2.g

the Scottish Ministers;

54.2.h

a person who has at any time been appointed by the Scottish Ministers under
subsection (4)(d) of section 28 of the Smoking, Health and Social Care
(Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 13)  to manage a scheme made under that section;

54.2.i

the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;

54.2.j

the Regional Business Services Organisation established by section 14 of the
Health and Social Care (Reform) Act (Northern Ireland) 2009 (c. 1 (N.I.) );

54.2.k

any other persons specified as relevant persons in regulations made by the
Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office for the purposes of
this section.

54.3

Regulations under subsection  (2) (k) —

54.3.a

may not specify a Welsh body as a relevant person unless the Welsh Ministers
consent;

54.3.b

may not specify a Scottish body as a relevant person unless the Scottish
Ministers consent;

54.3.c

may not specify a Northern Ireland body as a relevant person unless the
Department of Health in Northern Ireland consents.

54.4

In subsection  (3) —

      “ Welsh body ” means—         a devolved Welsh authority as defined in
section 157A of the Government of Wales Act 2006;           a person providing
services to a person within paragraph (a);                 “ Scottish body ”
means—         a person who is a part of the Scottish Administration;
a Scottish public authority with mixed functions or no reserved functions
(within the meaning of the Scotland Act 1998);           a person providing
services to a person within paragraph (a) or (b);                 “ Northern
Ireland body ” means—         a Northern Ireland department;           a
public authority whose functions are exercisable only or mainly in or as
regards Northern Ireland and relate only or mainly to transferred matters
(within the meaning of the Northern Ireland Act 1998);           a person
providing services to a person within paragraph (a) or (b).

#### Provision of support and assistance

55

55.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may make such
arrangements as they consider appropriate for the provision of support and
assistance to applicants (or potential applicants) for compensation under the
infected blood compensation scheme.

55.2

The arrangements may be for the provision of support and assistance by the
IBCA or any other person.

#### Payments to personal representatives of qualifying infected persons

56

56.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must make
arrangements for the personal representatives of a qualifying infected person
(in their capacity as such) to receive a payment of £100,000.

56.2

A “qualifying infected person” is a deceased person—

56.2.a

who was registered as an infected person under an infected blood support
scheme, or with a relevant organisation, before 17 April 2024, or

56.2.b

whose death was registered as the death of an infected person under an
infected blood support scheme, or with a relevant organisation, before 17
April 2024,

and to or in respect of whom no payment has been made under the Infected Blood
Interim Compensation Payment Scheme.

56.3

An “ infected blood support scheme ” means—

56.3.a

the England Infected Blood Support Scheme established under section 2 of, and
paragraph 7C of Schedule 1 to, the National Health Service Act 2006,

56.3.b

the Wales Infected Blood Support Scheme established under sections 1 to 3 of
the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,

56.3.c

the Scottish Infected Blood Support Scheme established partly under section 28
of the Smoking, Health and Social Care (Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 13) , and

56.3.d

the Infected Blood Payment Scheme for Northern Ireland established under
section 3 of the Health and Social Care (Reform) Act (Northern Ireland)  2009
(c. 1 (N.I.)) .

56.4

A “ relevant organisation ” means—

56.4.a

the Caxton Foundation (charity number 1142529),

56.4.b

the Eileen Trust (charity number 1028027),

56.4.c

the Macfarlane Trust (charity number 298863),

56.4.d

the Macfarlane (Special Payments) Trust established on 29 January 1990,

56.4.e

the Macfarlane (Special Payments) (No. 2) Trust established on 3 May 1991,

56.4.f

MFET Limited (company number 07121661), and

56.4.g

the Skipton Fund Limited (company number 5084964).

56.5

A payment is made in respect of a deceased person under the Infected Blood
Interim Compensation Payment Scheme if a payment under that scheme is made to
the person’s personal representatives (in their capacity as such) or the
person’s bereaved partner.

56.6

The Infected Blood Interim Compensation Payment Scheme means the scheme of
that name administered by the persons who administer the infected blood
support schemes (whether or not in conjunction with other persons).

56.7

The arrangements under subsection  (1) —

56.7.a

must include provision about the procedure for making payments to the personal
representatives of qualifying infected persons;

56.7.b

may include arrangements for one or more other persons (which may in
particular include relevant persons) to administer the making of payments, in
accordance with that procedure, on behalf of the Secretary of State or the
Minister for the Cabinet Office.

56.8

The arrangements under subsection  (1)  may be made, in whole or in part, by
exercising powers conferred on the Secretary of State or the Minister for the
Cabinet Office apart from this section.

56.9

In this section—

      “ personal representatives ”, in relation to a deceased person, means
the persons responsible for administering the deceased person’s estate;
“ relevant person ” has the same meaning as in  section 54 .

56.10

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may by
regulations repeal or amend subsections  (1)  to  (9) .

#### Information: payments to personal representatives

57

57.1

A person may provide information to—

57.1.a

the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office, or

57.1.b

a person administering the making of payments under section  56  by virtue of
section  56 (7) (b) ,

for the purposes of any matter connected with the making of payments to
personal representatives under that section.

57.2

The information referred to in subsection  (1)  may comprise or include
personal data.

57.3

Subsection  (1)  does not limit the circumstances in which information may be
disclosed apart from that subsection.

57.4

Except as provided by subsection  (5) , a disclosure of information authorised
by this section does not breach—

57.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

57.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

57.5

Subsection  (1)  does not authorise the processing of information if the
processing would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether it would do so, take into account the power conferred by
that subsection).

57.6

In this section “ personal data ”, “ processing ” and “ the data protection
legislation ” have the meanings given by section 3 of the Data Protection Act
2018.

### Prisoners

#### Public protection decisions

##### Public protection decisions: life prisoners

58

58.1

Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (life sentences) is
amended as follows.

58.2

After section 28 insert—

########### Public protection decisions

58.2.28ZA

58.2.28ZA.1

This section applies for the purposes of any public protection decision made
by a decision-maker about a life prisoner under a relevant provision of this
Chapter.

58.2.28ZA.2

A “ public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner, is a decision as
to whether the decision-maker is satisfied that it is no longer necessary for
the protection of the public that the prisoner should be confined.

58.2.28ZA.3

The decision-maker must not be so satisfied unless the decision-maker
considers that there is no more than a minimal risk that, were the prisoner no
longer confined, the prisoner would commit a further offence the commission of
which would cause serious harm.

58.2.28ZA.4

In making that assessment, the decision-maker must consider the risk that the
prisoner would engage in conduct which would (or, if carried out in any
particular part of the United Kingdom, would) constitute an offence specified
in Schedule 18B to the Criminal Justice Act 2003.

58.2.28ZA.5

When making a public protection decision about a prisoner, the following
matters must be taken into account by the decision-maker—

58.2.28ZA.5.a

the nature and seriousness of the offence in respect of which the relevant
sentence was imposed;

58.2.28ZA.5.b

the nature and seriousness of any other offence for which the prisoner has at
any time been convicted;

58.2.28ZA.5.c

the conduct of the prisoner while serving the relevant sentence (whether in
prison or on licence);

58.2.28ZA.5.d

the risk that the prisoner would commit a further offence (whether or not
specified in Schedule 18B to the Criminal Justice Act 2003) if no longer
confined;

58.2.28ZA.5.e

the risk that, if released on licence, the prisoner would fail to comply with
one or more licence conditions;

58.2.28ZA.5.f

any evidence of the effectiveness in reducing the risk the prisoner poses to
the public of any treatment, education or training the prisoner has received
or participated in while serving the relevant sentence;

58.2.28ZA.5.g

any submissions made by or on behalf of the prisoner or the Secretary of State
(whether or not on a matter mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (f) ).

58.2.28ZA.6

When making a public protection decision about a prisoner, the decision-maker
must in particular have regard to the protection of any victim of the
prisoner.

58.2.28ZA.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , a “victim” of a prisoner is a person who
meets the definition of victim in  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act
2024 by reference to the conduct which constituted the offence for which the
relevant sentence was imposed.

58.2.28ZA.8

In subsections  (5)  and  (7) , “ relevant sentence ” means the sentence in
respect of which the public protection decision is made.

58.2.28ZA.9

This section does not limit the matters which the decision-maker must or may
take into account when making a public protection decision.

58.2.28ZA.10

The “relevant provisions” of this Chapter under which a public protection
decision may be made, and the purposes for which the decision is made, are—

58.2.28ZA.10.a

section 28(6)(b), for the purposes of section 28(5);

58.2.28ZA.10.b

section 32(5A), for the purposes of section 32(5);

58.2.28ZA.10.c

subsection  (1)  of  section 32ZAC , for the purposes of that subsection.

58.2.28ZA.11

The “ decision-maker ”, in relation to a public protection decision made under
a relevant provision of this Chapter, is—

58.2.28ZA.11.a

if the decision is made under section 28(6)(b) or 32(5A), the Parole Board;

58.2.28ZA.11.b

if the decision is made under section  32ZAC (1) , the High Court.

58.2.28ZA.12

Subsection (2)  has effect in relation to a decision made by the Parole Board
under section 32(5A) (recall of life prisoners while on licence) as if for the
words “be confined” there were substituted  “remain in prison” .

58.3

In section 28A (murder or manslaughter: prisoner’s non-disclosure of
information)—

58.3.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “life prisoner”
insert  “under section 28(6)(b), for the purposes of section 28(5),” ;

58.3.b

in subsection (5), for the definition of “public protection decision”
substitute—

      “ public protection decision ” has the meaning given by  section 28ZA
(2) ;

.

58.4

In section 28B (indecent images: prisoner’s non-disclosure of information)—

58.4.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “life prisoner”
insert  “under section 28(6)(b), for the purposes of section 28(5),” ;

58.4.b

in subsection (7), for the definition of “public protection decision”
substitute—

      “ public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner, has the
meaning given by  section 28ZA (2) ;

.

58.5

In section  32ZZA  (imprisonment or detention for public protection: powers in
relation to release of recalled prisoners) (inserted by  section 66  of this
Act), after subsection (3) insert—

58.5.3A

The Secretary of State must not be satisfied as mentioned in subsection (3)
unless the Secretary of State considers that there is no more than a minimal
risk that, were the prisoner no longer confined, the prisoner would commit a
further offence the commission of which would cause serious harm (and  section
28ZA (4)  applies for the purposes of that assessment).

##### Public protection decisions: fixed-term prisoners

59

59.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

59.2

After section 237 insert—

########### Public protection decisions

59.2.237A

59.2.237A.1

This section applies for the purposes of any public protection decision made
by a decision-maker about a prisoner under a relevant provision of this
Chapter.

59.2.237A.2

A “ public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner, is a decision as
to whether the decision-maker is satisfied that it is not necessary, or no
longer necessary, for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be
confined.

59.2.237A.3

The decision-maker must not be so satisfied unless the decision-maker
considers that there is no more than a minimal risk that, were the prisoner no
longer confined, the prisoner would commit a further offence the commission of
which would cause serious harm.

59.2.237A.4

In making that assessment, the decision-maker must consider the risk that the
prisoner would engage in conduct which would (or, if carried out in any
particular part of the United Kingdom, would) constitute an offence specified
in Schedule 18B.

59.2.237A.5

When making a public protection decision about a prisoner, the following
matters must be taken into account by the decision-maker—

59.2.237A.5.a

the nature and seriousness of the offence in respect of which the relevant
sentence was imposed;

59.2.237A.5.b

the nature and seriousness of any other offence for which the prisoner has at
any time been convicted;

59.2.237A.5.c

the conduct of the prisoner while serving the relevant sentence (whether in
prison or on licence);

59.2.237A.5.d

the risk that the prisoner would commit a further offence (whether or not
specified in Schedule 18B) if no longer confined;

59.2.237A.5.e

the risk that, if released on licence, the prisoner would fail to comply with
one or more licence conditions;

59.2.237A.5.f

any evidence of the effectiveness in reducing the risk the prisoner poses to
the public of any treatment, education or training the prisoner has received
or participated in while serving the relevant sentence;

59.2.237A.5.g

any submissions made by or on behalf of the prisoner or the Secretary of State
(whether or not on a matter mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (f) ).

59.2.237A.6

When making a public protection decision about a prisoner, the decision-maker
must in particular have regard to the protection of any victim of the
prisoner.

59.2.237A.7

For the purposes of  subsection (6) , a “victim” of a prisoner is a person who
meets the definition of victim in  section 1  of the Victims and Prisoners Act
2024 by reference to the conduct which constituted the offence for which the
relevant sentence was imposed.

59.2.237A.8

In subsections  (5)  and  (7) , “ relevant sentence ” means the sentence in
respect of which the public protection decision is made.

59.2.237A.9

This section does not limit the matters which the decision-maker must or may
take into account when making a public protection decision.

59.2.237A.10

Section 237B lists the “relevant provisions” of this Chapter under which a
public protection decision may be made, and the purposes for which the
decision is made.

59.2.237A.11

The “ decision-maker ”, in relation to a public protection decision made under
a relevant provision of this Chapter, is—

59.2.237A.11.a

if the decision is made under section  256AZBC (1) , the High Court;

59.2.237A.11.b

in any other case, the Board.

59.2.237A.12

Subsection (2)  has effect in relation to a decision made by the Board—

59.2.237A.12.a

under section 255B(4A) (automatic release) as if for the words “be confined”
there were substituted  “remain in prison until the end of the period
mentioned in section 255B(1)(b)” ;

59.2.237A.12.b

under section 255C(4A) (prisoners not suitable for automatic release) or
256A(4) (further review) as if for the words “be confined” there were
substituted  “remain in prison” .

59.2.237A.13

The Secretary of State may by order amend Schedule 18B so as to—

59.2.237A.13.a

specify a further offence, or

59.2.237A.13.b

omit an offence for the time being specified.

########### Relevant provisions of this Chapter and corresponding purposes

59.2.237B

In the following table—

59.2.237B.a

the first column lists each provision of this Chapter which is a “relevant
provision” under which a public protection decision may be made;

59.2.237B.b

the second column lists, in relation to each relevant provision, the purposes
for which the decision is made.

    Relevant provision Purposes   section 244ZC(4) section 244ZC(3) section
244ZC(5)(b) section 244ZC(3) section 244A(4)(b) section 244A(3) section
246A(6)(b) section 246A(5) section 247A(5)(b) section 247A(4) section 255B(4A)
section 255B(4A) section 255C(4A) section 255C(4A) section 256A(4) section
256A(4) section  256AZBC (1)   section 256AZBC (1)   paragraph 6(2) of
Schedule 20B paragraph 6(1) of Schedule 20B paragraph 15(4) of Schedule 20B
paragraph 15(3) of Schedule 20B paragraph 25(3) of Schedule 20B paragraph
25(2) of Schedule 20B paragraph 28(3) of Schedule 20B paragraph 28(2) of
Schedule 20B

.

59.3

In section 246B (manslaughter: prisoner’s non-disclosure of information)—

59.3.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “a prisoner”
insert  “under section 246A(6)(b), for the purposes of section 246A(5),” ;

59.3.b

in subsection (5), for the definition of “public protection decision”
substitute—

      “ public protection decision ” has the meaning given by  section 237A
(2) ;

.

59.4

In section 246C (indecent images: prisoner’s non-disclosure of information)—

59.4.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “a prisoner”
insert  “under section 246A(6)(b), for the purposes of section 246A(5),” ;

59.4.b

in subsection (6), for the definition of “public protection decision”
substitute—

      “ public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner, has the
meaning given by  section 237A (2) ;

.

59.5

In section 255B (automatic release), after subsection (3) insert—

59.5.3A

The Secretary of State must not be satisfied as mentioned in subsection (3)
unless the Secretary of State considers that there is no more than a minimal
risk that, if P were released before the end of the period mentioned in
subsection (1)(b), P would commit a further offence the commission of which
would cause serious harm (and  section 237A (4)  applies for the purposes of
that assessment).

59.6

In section 255C (prisoners not suitable for automatic release), after
subsection (3) insert—

59.6.3A

The Secretary of State must not be satisfied as mentioned in subsection (3)
unless the Secretary of State considers that there is no more than a minimal
risk that, if P were released, P would commit a further offence the commission
of which would cause serious harm (and  section 237A (4)  applies for the
purposes of that assessment).

59.7

In section 256AZB (power to change test for release following recall), after
subsection (2) insert—

59.7.3

Provision made in an order under subsection (1)(c) by virtue of section 330(4)
(consequential etc provision) may in particular amend, or modify the
application of,  section 256AZBC (1)  (powers of High Court on referral of
release decisions).

59.8

In section 330 (orders and rules), in subsection (5)(a), before “section
246(5)” insert—

      section 237A (13) ,

.

59.9

Schedule 18B (offences relevant to public protection decisions) is inserted by
Schedule 2 to this Act.

59.10

Schedule 20B (modifications of Chapter 6 of Part 12 in certain transitional
cases) is amended in accordance with subsections  (11)  and  (12) .

59.11

In paragraph 38 (manslaughter: prisoner’s non disclosure of information)—

59.11.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “making a”
insert  “relevant” ;

59.11.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “making the”
insert  “relevant” ;

59.11.c

in sub-paragraph (3), after “making a” insert  “relevant” ;

59.11.d

in sub-paragraph (4), for the definition of “public protection decision”
substitute—

      “ public protection decision ” has the meaning given by  section 237A
(2) ;           “ relevant public protection decision ” means the public
protection decision made—         under paragraph 6(2) for the purposes of
paragraph 6(1),           under paragraph 15(4) for the purposes of paragraph
15(3),           under paragraph 25(3) for the purposes of paragraph 25(2), or
under paragraph 28(3) for the purposes of paragraph 28(2);

.

59.12

In paragraph 39 (indecent images: prisoner’s non disclosure of information)—

59.12.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “making a”
insert  “relevant” ;

59.12.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “making the”
insert  “relevant” ;

59.12.c

in sub-paragraph (3), after “making a” insert  “relevant” ;

59.12.d

in sub-paragraph (5)—

59.12.d.i

for the definition of “public protection decision” substitute—

      “ public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner, has the
meaning given by  section 237A (2) ;

;

59.12.d.ii

after the definition of “relevant indecent image” insert—

      “ relevant public protection decision ”, in relation to a prisoner,
means the public protection decision made—         under paragraph 6(2) for
the purposes of paragraph 6(1),           under paragraph 15(4) for the
purposes of paragraph 15(3),           under paragraph 25(3) for the purposes
of paragraph 25(2), or           under paragraph 28(3) for the purposes of
paragraph 28(2).

##### Amendment of power to change test for release on licence of certain prisoners

60

60.1

Section 128 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012
(power to change test for release on licence of certain prisoners) is amended
as follows.

60.2

In subsection (3)—

60.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

60.2.a.aza

amend  section 28ZA  of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (public protection
decisions), as that section applies for the purposes of section 28 or 32 of
that Act,

;

60.2.b

after paragraph (aa) insert—

60.2.b.aaza

amend  section 237A  of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (public protection
decisions), as that section applies for the purposes of a provision of that
Act mentioned in any of paragraphs (aaa) to (c) below,

.

60.3

After subsection (3) insert—

60.3.3A

Provision made in an order under this section by virtue of subsection (3)(f)
may in particular amend, or modify the application of, the following
provisions—

60.3.3A.a

section 32ZAC (1)  of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (powers of High Court on
referral of release decisions);

60.3.3A.b

section 256AZBC (1)  of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (powers of High Court on
referral of release decisions).

#### Referral of release decisions

##### Referral of release decisions: life prisoners

61

61.1

After section 32ZA of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 insert—

########### Referral of release decisions to High Court

############ Referral of release decisions to High Court

61.1.32ZAA

61.1.32ZAA.1

This section applies where—

61.1.32ZAA.1.a

a prisoner is serving a life sentence imposed in respect of an offence
specified or described in  section 32ZAB , and

61.1.32ZAA.1.b

the Parole Board directs the prisoner’s release under section 28(5) or 32(5).

61.1.32ZAA.2

The Secretary of State may direct the Parole Board to refer the prisoner’s
case to the High Court if the Secretary of State considers that—

61.1.32ZAA.2.a

the release of the prisoner would be likely to undermine public confidence in
the parole system, and

61.1.32ZAA.2.b

if the case were referred, the High Court might not be satisfied that it is no
longer necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be
confined (see  section 32ZAC (1) ).

61.1.32ZAA.3

The requirement for the Secretary of State to give effect to the Parole
Board’s direction to release the prisoner is suspended—

61.1.32ZAA.3.a

during such period, beginning with the day on which the direction is given, as
the Secretary of State reasonably requires to determine whether to direct the
Parole Board to refer the prisoner’s case to the High Court under this
section, and

61.1.32ZAA.3.b

if the Secretary of State gives such a direction, pending determination of the
reference under  section 32ZAC (1) .

61.1.32ZAA.4

Where the Secretary of State gives a direction under  subsection (2) , the
Secretary of State must notify the prisoner of the direction and the reasons
for giving it.

61.1.32ZAA.5

This section applies in relation to a prisoner whose sentence was imposed
before, as well as after, this section comes into force.

61.1.32ZAA.6

But nothing in this section affects the duty of the Secretary of State to
release a prisoner whose release has been directed by the Parole Board before
this section comes into force.

############ Specified offences

61.1.32ZAB

61.1.32ZAB.1

The offences specified or described in this section (for the purposes of
section 32ZAA ) are—

61.1.32ZAB.1.a

murder;

61.1.32ZAB.1.b

an offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act
2004, where a child has died as a result of the prisoner’s unlawful act;

61.1.32ZAB.1.c

an offence specified in any of paragraphs 41 to 43 of Schedule 18 to the
Sentencing Code (specified terrorism offences other than inchoate offences);

61.1.32ZAB.1.d

an offence that is not an inchoate offence and was determined to have a
terrorist connection, within the meaning given by section 247A(7A) of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003;

61.1.32ZAB.1.e

an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (rape);

61.1.32ZAB.1.f

an offence under section 5 of that Act (rape of a child under 13);

61.1.32ZAB.1.g

an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act  2009 (asp 9)
(rape);

61.1.32ZAB.1.h

an offence under section 18 of that Act (rape of a young child);

61.1.32ZAB.1.i

an offence under Article 5 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1769 (N.I. 2))  (rape);

61.1.32ZAB.1.j

an offence under Article 12 of that Order (rape of a child under 13);

61.1.32ZAB.1.k

an offence that—

61.1.32ZAB.1.k.i

is abolished, and

61.1.32ZAB.1.k.ii

would have constituted an offence referred to in paragraphs  (a)  to  (j)  if
committed on or after the date on which it was abolished.

61.1.32ZAB.2

A sentence in respect of a service offence is to be treated for the purposes
of  section 32ZAA  as if it were a sentence in respect of the corresponding
offence.

61.1.32ZAB.3

In  subsection (2) —

61.1.32ZAB.3.a

“ service offence ” means an offence under—

61.1.32ZAB.3.a.i

section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006,

61.1.32ZAB.3.a.ii

section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955, or

61.1.32ZAB.3.a.iii

section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957;

61.1.32ZAB.3.b

“ corresponding offence ” means—

61.1.32ZAB.3.b.i

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, the
corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of
that section;

61.1.32ZAB.3.b.ii

in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air
Force Act 1955, the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that
Act;

61.1.32ZAB.3.b.iii

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957,
the civil offence within the meaning of that section.

############ Powers of the High Court

61.1.32ZAC

61.1.32ZAC.1

On a referral of a prisoner’s case under section  32ZAA , the High Court—

61.1.32ZAC.1.a

must, if satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
public that the prisoner should be confined, make an order requiring the
Secretary of State to give effect to the Parole Board’s direction to release
the prisoner on licence;

61.1.32ZAC.1.b

otherwise, must make an order quashing the Parole Board’s direction to release
the prisoner on licence.

61.1.32ZAC.2

An order under subsection  (1) (a)  may include directions as to the
conditions to be included in the prisoner’s licence on release.

61.1.32ZAC.3

An order under subsection  (1) (b)  has effect as if the prisoner’s case were
disposed of by the Parole Board on the date on which the order was made.

61.2

In section 32ZB of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (release at direction of
Parole Board: timing)—

61.2.a

in subsection (1), at the end insert  “(including where the High Court makes
an order under  section 32ZAC (1) (a)  requiring the Secretary of State to
give effect to such a direction)” ;

61.2.b

in subsection (3), after “subject to” insert  “—

61.2.b.a

section 32ZAA (3)  (suspension of duty to release prisoner pending referral to
High Court or decision whether to refer), and

61.2.b.b



.

##### Referral of release decisions: fixed-term prisoners

62

62.1

After section 256AZB of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 insert—

########### Referral of release decisions to High Court

############ Referral of release decisions to High Court

62.1.256AZBA

62.1.256AZBA.1

This section applies where—

62.1.256AZBA.1.a

a prisoner is serving a fixed-term sentence imposed in respect of an offence
specified or described in  section 256AZBB , and

62.1.256AZBA.1.b

the Board directs the prisoner’s release under a provision mentioned in the
second column of the table in  section 237B .

62.1.256AZBA.2

The Secretary of State may direct the Board to refer the prisoner’s case to
the High Court if the Secretary of State considers that—

62.1.256AZBA.2.a

the release of the prisoner would be likely to undermine public confidence in
the parole system, and

62.1.256AZBA.2.b

if the case were referred, the High Court might not be satisfied that it is no
longer necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be
confined (see  section 256AZBC (1) ).

62.1.256AZBA.3

The requirement for the Secretary of State to give effect to the Board’s
direction to release the prisoner is suspended—

62.1.256AZBA.3.a

during such period, beginning with the day on which the direction is given, as
the Secretary of State reasonably requires to determine whether to direct the
Board to refer the prisoner’s case to the High Court under this section, and

62.1.256AZBA.3.b

if the Secretary of State gives such a direction, pending determination of the
reference under  section 256AZBC (1) .

62.1.256AZBA.4

Where the Secretary of State gives a direction under  subsection (2) , the
Secretary of State must notify the prisoner of the direction and the reasons
for giving it.

62.1.256AZBA.5

This section applies in relation to a prisoner whose sentence was imposed
before, as well as after, this section comes into force.

62.1.256AZBA.6

But nothing in this section affects the duty of the Secretary of State to
release a prisoner whose release has been directed by the Board before this
section comes into force.

############ Specified offences

62.1.256AZBB

62.1.256AZBB.1

The offences specified or described in this section (for the purposes of
section 256AZBA ) are—

62.1.256AZBB.1.a

an offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act
2004, where a child has died as a result of the prisoner’s unlawful act;

62.1.256AZBB.1.b

an offence specified in any of paragraphs 41 to 43 of Schedule 18 to the
Sentencing Code (specified terrorism offences other than inchoate offences);

62.1.256AZBB.1.c

an offence that is not an inchoate offence and was determined to have a
terrorist connection, within the meaning given by section 247A(7A);

62.1.256AZBB.1.d

an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (rape);

62.1.256AZBB.1.e

an offence under section 5 of that Act (rape of a child under 13);

62.1.256AZBB.1.f

an offence under section 1 of the Sexual Offences (Scotland) Act  2009 (asp 9)
(rape);

62.1.256AZBB.1.g

an offence under section 18 of that Act (rape of a young child);

62.1.256AZBB.1.h

an offence under Article 5 of the Sexual Offences (Northern Ireland) Order
2008 ( S.I. 2008/1769 (N.I. 2))  (rape);

62.1.256AZBB.1.i

an offence under Article 12 of that Order (rape of a child under 13);

62.1.256AZBB.1.j

an offence that—

62.1.256AZBB.1.j.i

is abolished, and

62.1.256AZBB.1.j.ii

would have constituted an offence referred to in paragraphs  (a)  to  (i)  if
committed on or after the date on which it was abolished.

62.1.256AZBB.2

A sentence in respect of a service offence is to be treated for the purposes
of  section 256AZBA  as if it were a sentence in respect of the corresponding
offence.

62.1.256AZBB.3

In  subsection (2) —

62.1.256AZBB.3.a

“ service offence ” means an offence under—

62.1.256AZBB.3.a.i

section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006,

62.1.256AZBB.3.a.ii

section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955, or

62.1.256AZBB.3.a.iii

section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957;

62.1.256AZBB.3.b

“ corresponding offence ” means—

62.1.256AZBB.3.b.i

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, the
corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of
that section;

62.1.256AZBB.3.b.ii

in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air
Force Act 1955, the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that
Act;

62.1.256AZBB.3.b.iii

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957,
the civil offence within the meaning of that section.

############ Powers of the High Court

62.1.256AZBC

62.1.256AZBC.1

On a referral of a prisoner’s case under  section 256AZBA , the High Court—

62.1.256AZBC.1.a

must, if satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
public that the prisoner should be confined, make an order requiring the
Secretary of State to give effect to the Board’s direction to release the
prisoner on licence;

62.1.256AZBC.1.b

otherwise, must make an order quashing the direction.

62.1.256AZBC.2

An order under subsection  (1) (a)  may include directions as to the
conditions to be included in the prisoner’s licence on release.

62.1.256AZBC.3

An order under subsection  (1) (b)  has effect as if the prisoner’s case were
disposed of by the Board on the date on which the order was made.

62.1.256AZBC.4

If the decision referred to the High Court is a decision under section
255B(4A) (automatic release), subsection (1)(a) has effect as if for the words
“be confined” there were substituted  “remain in prison until the end of the
period mentioned in section 255B(1)(b)” .

62.2

In section 256AZC of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (release at direction of
Parole Board: timing)—

62.2.a

in subsection (1), at the end insert  “(including where the High Court makes
an order under  section 256AZBC (1) (a)  requiring the Secretary of State to
give effect to such a direction)” ;

62.2.b

in subsection (3), after “subject to” insert

—

62.2.b.a

section 256AZBA (3)  (suspension of duty to release prisoner pending referral
to High Court or decision whether to refer), and

62.2.b.b



.

#### Licence conditions on release following referral

##### Licence conditions of life prisoners released following referral

63

63.1

Section 31 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (duration and conditions of
licences) is amended as follows.

63.2

In subsection (3), before paragraph (b) (and the “or” before it) insert—

63.2.ab

in accordance with subsection  (3B) ,

.

63.3

Before subsection (4) insert—

63.3.3B

Where the High Court gives a direction under  section 32ZAC (2)  as to the
conditions to be included in a life prisoner’s licence on release, the
Secretary of State—

63.3.3B.a

must include the conditions in the prisoner’s licence on release;

63.3.3B.b

may subsequently insert a condition in such a licence or vary or cancel a
condition of such a licence.

##### Licence conditions of fixed-term prisoners released following referral

64

64.1

Section 250 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (licence conditions) is amended
as follows.

64.2

In subsection (5A), at the beginning insert  “Subject to  subsection (5D) ,” .

64.3

After subsection (5C) insert—

64.3.5D

Where the High Court gives a direction under  section 256AZBC (2)  as to the
conditions to be included in a prisoner’s licence on release, the Secretary of
State—

64.3.5D.a

must include the conditions in the prisoner’s licence on release;

64.3.5D.b

may subsequently insert a condition in such a licence or vary or cancel a
condition of such a licence.

#### Assessing etc risks posed by controlling or coercive offenders

##### Assessing etc risks posed by controlling or coercive offenders

65

In section 327 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (section 325: interpretation),
in subsection (4A), after paragraph (c) insert—

65.ca

an offence under section 76 of the Serious Crime Act 2015 (controlling or
coercive behaviour in an intimate or family relationship);

.

#### Imprisonment or detention for public protection

##### Imprisonment or detention for public protection

66

66.1

Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (life sentences) is
amended as follows.

66.2

In section 31 (duration and conditions of licences)—

66.2.a

in subsection (3), after paragraph (a) (but before the “or”) insert—

66.2.a.aa

in accordance with subsection  (3A) ,

;

66.2.b

after subsection (3) insert—

66.2.b.3A

The Secretary of State may include a condition in a life prisoner's licence on
release under  section 32ZZA .

66.3

In section 31A (imprisonment or detention for public protection: termination
of licences)—

66.3.a

in subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), for “shall” substitute
“must” ;

66.3.b

in subsection (3)—

66.3.b.i

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” ;

66.3.b.ii

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” before it;

66.3.c

for subsection (4) substitute—

66.3.c.4

Where a reference is made under subsection (3) above—

66.3.c.4.a

the Parole Board must direct the Secretary of State to make an order that the
licence is to cease to have effect, unless  paragraph (b)  applies;

66.3.c.4.b

if the Parole Board is satisfied that it is necessary for the protection of
the public that the licence should remain in force, it must dismiss the
reference.

;

66.3.d

omit subsections (4A) to (4C) and insert—

66.3.d.4D

The reference under subsection (3) must not be made, and a reference under
that subsection must not be determined by the Parole Board under  subsection
(4) , if at the time the reference or determination would otherwise be made
the prisoner is in prison having been recalled under section 32.

66.3.d.4E

Subsection (4F)  applies where—

66.3.d.4E.a

but for  subsection (4D) , a reference of the prisoner’s case would have been
made under subsection (3) or determined by the Parole Board under  subsection
(4) ,

66.3.d.4E.b

the Secretary of State has referred the prisoner’s case to the Parole Board
under section 28 or 32, and

66.3.d.4E.c

the Board is satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the protection of
the public that the prisoner should be confined.

66.3.d.4F

Where this subsection applies—

66.3.d.4F.a

the Parole Board must direct the Secretary of State to release the prisoner
unconditionally, unless  paragraph (b)  applies;

66.3.d.4F.b

if the Parole Board is satisfied that it is necessary for the protection of
the public for the prisoner, when released, to be released on licence in
respect of the preventive sentence or sentences, it must not give a direction
under  paragraph (a) .

66.3.d.4G

Where the Parole Board gives a direction under  subsection (4F) (a) —

66.3.d.4G.a

section 28(5) has effect in relation to the prisoner as if for “release him on
licence” there were substituted  “release the prisoner unconditionally” ;

66.3.d.4G.b

section 32(5) has effect in relation to the prisoner as if for “give effect to
the direction” there were substituted  “release the prisoner unconditionally”
.

66.3.d.4H

Where—

66.3.d.4H.a

the prisoner has been released on licence under this Chapter (whether or not
the prisoner has subsequently been recalled to prison under section 32),

66.3.d.4H.b

the qualifying period has expired, and

66.3.d.4H.c

the prisoner’s licence has remained in force for a continuous period of two
years—

66.3.d.4H.c.i

beginning not before the qualifying period expired, and

66.3.d.4H.c.ii

ending after the coming into force of  section 66 (3) (d)  of the Victims and
Prisoners Act 2024,

the Secretary of State must order that the licence is to cease to have effect.

;

66.3.e

in subsection (5)—

66.3.e.i

for the definition of “preventive sentence” substitute—

“ preventive sentence ” means— a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a
young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (including one passed as a result of section 219 of
the Armed Forces Act 2006), or a sentence of detention for public protection
under section 226 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (including one passed as a
result of section 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006);

;

66.3.e.ii

in the definition of “the qualifying period”, for the words from “the period”
to the end of the definition substitute

—

if the prisoner was not at any time in the period of two years beginning with
the date of the prisoner’s release serving any preventive sentence in respect
of an offence for which the prisoner was convicted when aged 18 or over, that
two year period; otherwise, the period of three years beginning with the date
of the prisoner’s release.

;

66.3.f

after subsection (5) insert—

66.3.f.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
subsection (5) to change the length of the qualifying period for the time
being specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of the definition of “the qualifying
period”.

66.3.f.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (6)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

66.4

In section 32 (recall of life prisoners while on licence)—

66.4.a

after subsection (1) insert—

66.4.a.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a prisoner in respect of whom the
Secretary of State is required to make an order under section 31A(2) or (4H)
that the licence is to cease to have effect.

;

66.4.b

after subsection (5A) insert—

66.4.b.5B

Subsection (5C)  applies where the Secretary of State releases, under
subsection (5) above, a prisoner to whom section 31A (termination of licences
of preventive sentence prisoners) applies.

66.4.b.5C

The Secretary of State may determine that, for the purposes of paragraph (c)
of section 31A(4H) (automatic licence termination), the prisoner’s licence is
to be treated as having remained in force as if it had not been revoked under
this section.

66.4.b.5D

The Secretary of State may only make a determination under  subsection (5C)
if the Secretary of State considers that it is in the interests of justice to
do so.

66.4.b.5E

Where the Secretary of State makes a determination under  subsection (5C) ,
the Secretary of State must notify the prisoner.

66.5

After section 32 insert—

########### Imprisonment or detention for public protection: powers in relation to release of recalled prisoners

66.5.32ZZA

66.5.32ZZA.1

This section applies where a prisoner to whom section 31A (termination of
licences of preventive sentence prisoners) applies—

66.5.32ZZA.1.a

has been released on licence under this Chapter, and

66.5.32ZZA.1.b

is recalled to prison under section 32.

66.5.32ZZA.2

The Secretary of State may, at any time after the prisoner is returned to
prison, release the prisoner again on licence under this Chapter.

66.5.32ZZA.3

The Secretary of State must not release the prisoner under  subsection (2)
unless satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the protection of the
public that the prisoner should remain in prison.

66.5.32ZZA.4

Where the prisoner is released under  subsection (2) , the Secretary of State
may determine that, for the purposes of paragraph (c) of section 31A(4H)
(automatic licence termination), the prisoner’s licence is to be treated as
having remained in force as if it had not been revoked under section 32.

66.5.32ZZA.5

The Secretary of State may only make a determination under  subsection (4)  if
the Secretary of State considers that it is in the interests of justice to do
so.

66.5.32ZZA.6

Where the Secretary of State makes a determination under  subsection (4) , the
Secretary of State must notify the prisoner.

66.5.32ZZA.7

In this section, “ preventive sentence ” means—

66.5.32ZZA.7.a

a sentence of imprisonment or detention in a young offender institution for
public protection under section 225 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003
(including one passed as a result of section 219 of the Armed Forces Act
2006), or

66.5.32ZZA.7.b

a sentence of detention for public protection under section 226 of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (including one passed as a result of section 221 of
the Armed Forces Act 2006).

##### Imprisonment or detention for public protection: annual report

67

67.1

The Secretary of State must, as soon as is reasonably practicable after the
end of each reporting period—

67.1.a

prepare and publish a report about the steps taken by the Secretary of State
in the reporting period to support the rehabilitation of preventive sentence
prisoners and their progress towards release from prison or licence
termination, and

67.1.b

lay the report before Parliament.

67.2

For these purposes, in relation to a preventive sentence prisoner—

67.2.a

“ release from prison ” means the prisoner’s release on licence under section
28(5) or 32(5) of the 1997 Act or unconditional release under either of those
sections as modified by section 31A(4G) of that Act;

67.2.b

“ licence termination ” means an order, under section 31A(2) or (4H) of the
1997 Act, that the licence on which the prisoner was released from prison is
to cease to have effect.

67.3

The report must in particular contain details of the steps taken in relation
to the following—

67.3.a

preventive sentence prisoners who are female;

67.3.b

preventive sentence prisoners who at any time in the reporting period were
serving a sentence mentioned in paragraph (b) of the definition of preventive
sentence (detention for public protection for serious offences committed by
those under 18).

67.4

The report must also contain details of the persons the Secretary of State has
consulted in the reporting period in relation to the matters mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) .

67.5

In this section—

      “ the 1997 Act ” means the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997;           “ life
sentence ” has the meaning given by section 34(2) of the 1997 Act;           “
preventive sentence ” means—         a sentence of imprisonment or detention
in a young offender institution for public protection under section 225 of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (including one passed as a result of section 219 of
the Armed Forces Act 2006), or           a sentence of detention for public
protection under section 226 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (including one
passed as a result of section 221 of the Armed Forces Act 2006);
“ preventive sentence prisoner ”, in relation to a reporting period, means a
prisoner who—         was serving one or more preventive sentences at any time
in the period, and           was not serving any other life sentence at any
time in the period;                 “ reporting period ” means—         the
period beginning with the day on which this section comes into force and
ending with 31 March following that day, and           each successive period
of 12 months.

#### Extension of home detention curfew

##### Extension of home detention curfew

68

68.1

Section 246 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (release of prisoners on licence
before required to do so) is amended as follows.

68.2

In subsection (1), after “fixed-term prisoner” insert  “, other than one to
whom section 244ZA, 244A, 246A, 247, 247A or 247B or paragraph 4 or 24 of
Schedule 20B applies,” .

68.3

In subsection (4)—

68.3.a

omit paragraphs (a) to (ab);

68.3.b

after paragraph (ab) insert—

68.3.b.ac

the prisoner is one to whom section 244ZA would apply if—

68.3.b.ac.i

section 244ZA(4)(c), (5)(c) and (6)(c) were omitted,

68.3.b.ac.ii

the reference in section 244ZA(5)(a) to section 262 of the Sentencing Code
were read as including a reference to section 96 of the PCC(S)A 2000, and

68.3.b.ac.iii

the reference in section 244ZA(6)(a) to section 250 of the Sentencing Code
were read as including a reference to section 91 of the PCC(S)A 2000,

;

68.3.c

in paragraph (g) for “at any time” substitute  “during the currency of the
sentence” ;

68.3.d

for paragraph (ga) substitute—

68.3.d.ga

the following apply—

68.3.d.ga.i

the prisoner has been released on licence under this section in relation to a
previous sentence and has been recalled to prison under section 255(1)(a) (and
the revocation of the licence has not been cancelled under section 255(3)),
and

68.3.d.ga.ii

the requisite custodial period in relation to the previous sentence ended less
than 2 years before the day on which the current sentence began,

68.3.d.gb

the following apply—

68.3.d.gb.i

the prisoner has been released on licence under section 34A of the Criminal
Justice Act 1991 in relation to a previous sentence and has been recalled to
prison under section 38A(1)(a) of that Act (and the revocation of the licence
has not been cancelled under section 38A(3) of that Act), and

68.3.d.gb.ii

the requisite custodial period in relation to the previous sentence ended less
than 2 years before the day on which the current sentence began,

;

68.3.e

omit paragraph (ha) (but not the “or” at the end of it).

68.4

Omit subsection (4ZA).

#### Application of Convention rights

##### Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998: life prisoners

69

In Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (life sentences),
after section 34 insert—

######### Disapplication of section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 to Chapter 2

69.34A

69.34A.1

Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (legislation to be read and given
effect in way which is compatible with Convention rights) does not apply to
this Chapter or any subordinate legislation made under it.

69.34A.2

In this section “ subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Human Rights Act 1998 (see section 21 of that Act).

##### Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998: fixed-term prisoners

70

In Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (release, licences,
supervision and recall of fixed-term prisoners), after section 268 insert—

######### Disapplication of section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 to Chapter 6

70.268A

70.268A.1

Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (legislation to be read and given
effect in way which is compatible with Convention rights) does not apply to
this Chapter or any subordinate legislation made under it.

70.268A.2

In this section “ subordinate legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Human Rights Act 1998 (see section 21 of that Act).

##### Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998: power to change release test

71

In section 128 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act
2012 (power to change test for release on licence of certain prisoners), after
subsection (6) insert—

71.7

Section 3 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (legislation to be read and given
effect in way which is compatible with Convention rights) does not apply to
this section or any order made under it.

##### Application of certain Convention rights in prisoner release cases

72

72.1

Subsection (3)  applies where—

72.1.a

in any proceedings, a court is determining a question which has arisen as to
whether a relevant Convention right of a person has been breached, and

72.1.b

the alleged breach arose in connection with a decision, under any prisoner
release legislation, about whether the person should be released from custody.

72.2

The “prisoner release legislation” is—

72.2.a

Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (life sentences),
including subordinate legislation made under that Chapter;

72.2.b

Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (release, licences,
supervision and recall of fixed-term prisoners), including subordinate
legislation made under that Chapter.

72.3

The court must give the greatest possible weight to the importance of reducing
the risk to the public from persons who have committed offences in respect of
which custodial sentences have been imposed.

72.4

In this section—

      “ court ” includes a tribunal;           “ custodial sentence ” means a
sentence specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State;           “
relevant Convention right ” means any Convention right other than the
Convention rights set out in the following Articles of the Convention—
Article 2 (right to life);           Article 3 (prohibition of torture);
Article 4(1) (prohibition of slavery);           Article 7 (no punishment
without law).

72.5

In this section, the following terms have the same meanings as in the Human
Rights Act 1998—

      “ the Convention ”;           “ Convention right ”;           “
subordinate legislation ”.

#### The Parole Board

##### Parole Board rules

73

73.1

Section 239 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (the Parole Board) is amended as
follows.

73.2

In subsection (5), for the words after “including” to the end substitute

rules—

73.2.a

authorising cases to be dealt with by a prescribed number of its members;

73.2.b

requiring cases to be dealt with by, or by members including, members of a
prescribed description;

73.2.c

requiring cases to be dealt with at prescribed times.

73.3

After subsection (5C) insert—

73.3.5D

Rules under subsection (5) may also make provision for functions of the Board
(including judicial functions) to be exercised by employees of the Board,
other than any function so far as its exercise involves—

73.3.5D.a

making a public protection decision in relation to a prisoner within the
meaning of section 237A(2) of this Act or section 28ZA(2) of the 1997 Act;

73.3.5D.b

giving a direction for the release of a prisoner on licence under this Chapter
or under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the 1997 Act;

73.3.5D.c

making a decision or giving a direction under subsection (4) or (4F) of
section 31A of the 1997 Act (imprisonment or detention for public protection:
termination of licences);

73.3.5D.d

reconsidering a decision or setting aside a decision or direction under
provision made by virtue of subsection (5A).

##### Parole Board membership

74

74.1

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 19 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (membership of the
Parole Board) is amended as follows.

74.2

In sub-paragraph (1), for “four” substitute  “five” .

74.3

In sub-paragraph (2)—

74.3.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c);

74.3.b

after paragraph (d) insert

; and

74.3.b.e

a person appearing to the Secretary of State to have experience of law
enforcement in a part of the United Kingdom.

.

74.4

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

74.4.2A

“ Law enforcement ” means the prevention, detection or investigation of
offences.

#### Whole life prisoners prohibited from forming a marriage or civil partnership

##### Whole life prisoners prohibited from forming a marriage

75

75.1

After section 2 of the Marriage Act 1949 insert—

########### Marriages of whole life prisoners

75.1.2A

75.1.2A.1

A person (“ A ”) may not marry another person if A—

75.1.2A.1.a

is serving a life sentence in a prison or other place of detention, and

75.1.2A.1.b

is subject to a whole life order.

75.1.2A.2

But subsection (1) does not apply if A has permission from the Secretary of
State to marry the other person.

75.1.2A.3

The Secretary of State may not give permission under subsection (2) unless
satisfied that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the permission
being given.

75.1.2A.4

A marriage solemnized in contravention of subsection (1) is void.

75.1.2A.5

In this section—

      “ life sentence ” has the meaning given by section 34(2) of the Crime
(Sentences) Act 1997;           “ whole life order ” means an order that
section 28(5) to (8) of that Act (early release of person serving life
sentence) is not to apply to a person.

75.1.2A.6

A person is to be treated for the purposes of this section as being subject to
a whole life order if—

75.1.2A.6.a

the person is serving a life sentence passed before 18 December 2003,

75.1.2A.6.b

the sentence was passed in circumstances where the sentence was fixed by law,

75.1.2A.6.c

before 18 December 2003 the person was notified in writing by the Secretary of
State (otherwise than in a notice expressed to be provisional) that the
Secretary of State does not intend that the person should ever be released on
licence, and

75.1.2A.6.d

an order has not been made in relation to the sentence under paragraph 3(1)(a)
of Schedule 22 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (mandatory life sentences:
transitional cases).

75.2

In section 27ZA of the Marriage Act 1949 (circumstances in which a notice of
marriage is not to be recorded in the marriage register), in paragraph (a), at
the appropriate place insert—

      section 27A (3A) ;

.

75.3

In section 27A of the Marriage Act 1949 (additional information required in
certain cases)—

75.3.a

in subsection (3) (case where marriage intended to be solemnized at detained
person’s residence)—

75.3.a.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

75.3.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

; and

75.3.a.ii.c

stating whether the person is serving a life sentence and, if so, whether the
person is subject to a whole life order.

;

75.3.b

after subsection (3) insert—

75.3.b.3A

Where the relevant person is a detained person who is serving a life sentence
and is subject to a whole life order, each notice of marriage required by
section 27 of this Act must also be accompanied by a statement made by the
Secretary of State not more than twenty-one days before the date on which
notice of the marriage is given under section 27 stating that the relevant
person has the permission required by  section 2A (2) .

;

75.3.c

in subsection (6), for “or (as the case may be) (3)” substitute  “, (3) or
(3A)” ;

75.3.d

in subsection (7), before the definition of “medical statement” insert—

      “ life sentence ” and “whole life order” have the meanings given by
section 2A (5)  of this Act and  section 2A (6)  (persons treated as being
subject to a whole life order) applies for the purposes of this section; and

.

75.4

In section 11(a) of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1973 (grounds on which a
marriage is void), omit the “or” at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) and insert—

75.4.iia

the marriage is solemnized in contravention of section 2A of the Marriage Act
1949; or

.

##### Whole life prisoners prohibited from forming a civil partnership

76

76.1

Section 3 of the Civil Partnership Act 2004 (eligibility) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

76.2

In subsection (1)—

76.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (c), and

76.2.b

after paragraph (d) insert

, or

76.2.b.e

either of them is serving a life sentence in a prison or other place of
detention and is subject to a whole life order.

76.3

After subsection (1) insert—

76.3.1A

But two people are not ineligible to register as civil partners of each other
by reason of either of them falling within paragraph (e) of subsection (1) if
each of them falling within that paragraph has permission from the Secretary
of State to register as a civil partner of the other.

76.3.1B

The Secretary of State may not give permission under subsection (1A) unless
satisfied that exceptional circumstances exist which justify the permission
being given.

76.4

After subsection (2) insert—

76.4.3

In this section—

      “ life sentence ” has the meaning given by section 34(2) of the Crime
(Sentences) Act 1997;           “ whole life order ” means an order that
section 28(5) to (8) of that Act (early release of person serving life
sentence) is not to apply to a person.

76.4.4

A person is to be treated for the purposes of this section as being subject to
a whole life order if—

76.4.4.a

the person is serving a life sentence passed before 18 December 2003,

76.4.4.b

the sentence was passed in circumstances where the sentence was fixed by law,

76.4.4.c

before 18 December 2003 the person was notified in writing by the Secretary of
State (otherwise than in a notice expressed to be provisional) that the
Secretary of State does not intend that the person should ever be released on
licence, and

76.4.4.d

an order has not been made in relation to the sentence under paragraph 3(1)(a)
of Schedule 22 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (mandatory life sentences:
transitional cases).

76.5

In section 9F of the Civil Partnership Act 2004 (recording of information in
the register: compliance with requirements), at the appropriate place insert—

      section 19 (5A) ;

.

76.6

Section 19 of the Civil Partnership Act 2004 (detained persons) is amended in
accordance with  subsections (7)  to  (9) .

76.7

In subsection (4) (supporting statement)—

76.7.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

76.7.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

76.7.b.c

states whether the person is serving a life sentence and, if so, whether the
person is subject to a whole life order.

76.8

After subsection (5) insert—

76.8.5A

Where the detained person is serving a life sentence and is subject to a whole
life order, each notice of proposed civil partnership must also be accompanied
by a statement made by the Secretary of State not more than 21 days before the
day on which the notice is recorded stating that the detained person has the
permission required by section 3 (1A) .

76.8.5B

The fact that the registration authority to whom a notice of proposed civil
partnership is given has received a statement under  subsection (5A)  must be
recorded in the register.

76.9

After subsection (7) insert—

76.9.7A

“Life sentence” and “whole life order” have the meanings given by section 3
(3)  of this Act and section 3 (4)  (persons treated as being subject to a
whole life order) applies for the purposes of this section.

### General

#### Financial provision

77

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

77.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by the Secretary of
State, and

77.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Power to make consequential provision

78

78.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on, or on regulations under, Part  1 ,  2  or  4 .

78.2

Each of the following may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on, or on regulations under, Part 3—

78.2.a

the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office,

78.2.b

the Welsh Ministers,

78.2.c

the Scottish Ministers, and

78.2.d

a Northern Ireland department.

78.3

Regulations under subsection  (2) —

78.3.a

made by the Welsh Ministers, may contain only provision which would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in an Act of
the Senedd;

78.3.b

made by the Scottish Ministers, may contain only provision which would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it were
contained in an Act of that Parliament;

78.3.c

made by a Northern Ireland department, may contain only provision which—

78.3.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
it were contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

78.3.c.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

78.4

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke any provision of or
made under primary legislation (whenever passed or made).

78.5

In this section, “ primary legislation ” means—

78.5.a

an Act;

78.5.b

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru;

78.5.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

78.5.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Regulations

79

79.1

Regulations under this Act—

79.1.a

may make different provision for different purposes or areas;

79.1.b

may include supplementary, incidental, saving or transitional provisions.

79.2

Regulations under this Act made by the Secretary of State, the Minister for
the Cabinet Office, the Treasury or the Welsh Ministers are to be made by
statutory instrument.

79.3

For regulations made under  section 78 (2)  by the Scottish Ministers, see
section 27 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010
(asp 10)  (Scottish statutory instruments).

79.4

The power of a Northern Ireland department to make regulations under  section
78 (2)  is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory
Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

79.5

A statutory instrument containing (alone or with other provision) regulations
made by the Secretary of State under section  17  may not be made unless a
draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament.

79.6

A statutory instrument containing (alone or with other provision) the first
regulations made by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet
Office under  section 49  must be laid before Parliament after being made.

79.7

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (6)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

79.8

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

79.8.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

79.8.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

79.9

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (7) , that does
not—

79.9.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

79.9.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

79.10

Any other statutory instrument containing (alone or with other provision)
regulations made by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet
Office under  section 49  may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has
been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

79.11

A statutory instrument containing (alone or with other provision) regulations
made by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office under
section  56 (10)  (unless it is a statutory instrument to which subsection
(6)  applies) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

79.12

A statutory instrument containing (alone or with other provision) regulations
made by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office under
section 78 (1)  or  (2)  that amend, repeal or revoke primary legislation
(within the meaning of  section 78 ) (unless it is a statutory instrument to
which  subsection (6)  applies) may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

79.13

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of
State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office under this Act is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

79.14

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Treasury under
paragraph  21  of  Schedule 1  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of the House of Commons.

79.15

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers
under  section 78 (2)  that amend, repeal or revoke primary legislation
(within the meaning of  section 78 ) may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, Senedd
Cymru.

79.16

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers under  section 78 (2)  is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of Senedd Cymru.

79.17

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under  section 78 (2)  that amend,
repeal or revoke primary legislation (within the meaning of  section 78 ) are
subject to the affirmative procedure (see section 29 of the Interpretation and
Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

79.18

Any other regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under  section 78 (2)
are subject to the negative procedure (see section 28 of the Interpretation
and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

79.19

Regulations made by a Northern Ireland department under  section 78 (2)  that
amend, repeal or revoke primary legislation (within the meaning of  section 78
) may not be made unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, the Northern Ireland Assembly.

79.20

Any other regulations made by a Northern Ireland department under  section 78
(2)  are subject to negative resolution within the meaning given by section
41(6) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)  1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

79.21

This section does not apply to regulations under  section 81 .

#### Extent

80

80.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject as follows.

80.2

Section  45 (5)  also extends to Scotland.

80.3

Section  19 (3)  and  (4)  also extends to Northern Ireland.

80.4

The following also extend to Scotland and Northern Ireland—

80.4.a

section  27 ;

80.4.b

section  29 ;

80.4.c

section  33 (3) ;

80.4.d

section  45 (1)  to  (4) ;

80.4.e

Part 3 ;

80.4.f

this Part.

80.5

His Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any of the provisions of Part
3 to extend, with or without modifications, to—

80.5.a

any of the Channel Islands;

80.5.b

the Isle of Man;

80.5.c

Gibraltar;

80.5.d

the Falkland Islands.

#### Commencement

81

81.1

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

81.1.a

Part 3;

81.1.b

section 73 (1)  and  (3) ;

81.1.c

this Part.

81.2

Except as mentioned in  subsection (1) (b) , Parts  1 ,  2  and  4  come into
force on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

81.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of—

81.3.a

Part  1 ,  2  or  4 , or

81.3.b

this Part.

81.4

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may by
regulations make transitional or saving provision in connection with the
coming into force of any provision of Part 3.

81.5

Regulations under this section may make different provision for different
purposes or areas.

81.6

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

82

This Act may be cited as the Victims and Prisoners Act 2024.

## Schedules

  Infected Blood Compensation Authority

Section 48

##### Constitution

###### Membership

1

1.1

The IBCA is to consist of—

1.1.a

a Chair (who is to be a non-executive member),

1.1.b

at least 3, but not more than 6, other non-executive members,

1.1.c

a chief executive, and

1.1.d

at least 2, but not more than 5, other executive members.

1.2

The members are to be appointed in accordance with paragraphs  2  to  4 .

1.3

A person exercising a power of appointment in accordance with those paragraphs
must when doing so ensure, so far as practicable, that the number of non-
executive members is at all times greater than the number of executive
members.

###### Appointment of non-executive members

2

2.1

The Chair is to be appointed by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the
Cabinet Office.

2.2

The other non-executive members are to be appointed by the Chair except for
the first three who are to be appointed by the Secretary of State or the
Minister for the Cabinet Office.

2.3

A person may not be appointed as a non-executive member if the person is a
member of the IBCA’s staff.

###### Appointment of executive members

3

3.1

The chief executive and the other executive members are to be appointed by the
Chair.

3.2

The executive members are to be members of the IBCA’s staff.

###### Appointments of members: eligibility

4

4.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may by
regulations make provision about criteria which must be met by persons in
order to be appointed as members of the IBCA.

4.2

The regulations may make provision for a person to cease to be a member of the
IBCA if the person no longer meets those criteria.

###### Terms of membership

5

5.1

A member of the IBCA holds and vacates office in accordance with the terms of
the member’s appointment (subject to this Schedule).

5.2

A member may resign from office by giving notice to the appropriate person.

5.3

A member may be removed from office by notice given by the appropriate person
on the grounds that the member—

5.3.a

has without reasonable excuse failed to discharge the member’s functions, or

5.3.b

is, in the opinion of the appropriate person, unable or unfit to carry out the
member’s functions.

5.4

A person ceases to be—

5.4.a

a non-executive member of the IBCA upon becoming a member of its staff;

5.4.b

an executive member of the IBCA upon ceasing to be a member of its staff.

5.5

In this paragraph “ appropriate person ” means—

5.5.a

in the case of the Chair, the Secretary of State or the Minister for the
Cabinet Office;

5.5.b

in the case of any other member of the IBCA, the Chair.

###### Non-executive members: payments

6

6.1

The IBCA must pay, or make provision for the payment of, such remuneration,
pensions, allowances or gratuities as the Secretary of State or the Minister
for the Cabinet Office determines to or in respect of a person who is or has
been—

6.1.a

the Chair, or

6.1.b

a non-executive member appointed by the Secretary of State or the Minister for
the Cabinet Office under paragraph  2 (2) .

6.2

The IBCA must pay, or make provision for the payment of, such remuneration,
pensions, allowances or gratuities as the Chair determines to or in respect of
a person who is or has been a non-executive member appointed by the Chair
under paragraph  2 (2) .

6.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies if—

6.3.a

a person ceases to be the Chair or a non-executive member appointed by the
Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office under paragraph  2
(2) , and

6.3.b

the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office determines that
the person should be compensated because of special circumstances.

6.4

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the IBCA must pay the person compensation of
such amount as the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office
may determine.

6.5

Sub-paragraph  (6)  applies if—

6.5.a

a person ceases to be a non-executive member appointed by the Chair under
paragraph  2 (2) , and

6.5.b

the Chair determines that the person should be compensated because of special
circumstances.

6.6

Where this sub-paragraph applies, the IBCA must pay the person compensation of
such amount as the Chair may determine.

###### Staffing

7

7.1

The IBCA may—

7.1.a

appoint employees, and

7.1.b

make such other arrangements for the staffing of the IBCA as it determines.

7.2

The IBCA must pay its staff such remuneration as may be determined in
accordance with this paragraph.

7.3

The IBCA must pay, or make provision for the payment of, such pensions,
allowances, gratuities or compensation as may be determined in accordance with
this paragraph to or in respect of any person who is or has been a member of
staff of the IBCA.

7.4

Members of staff of the IBCA are to be appointed on such other terms as may be
determined in accordance with this paragraph.

7.5

A matter is determined in accordance with this paragraph if—

7.5.a

in the case of a matter which relates to an executive member, it is determined
by the Chair;

7.5.b

in the case of a matter which relates to any other member of staff, it is
determined by the IBCA.

7.6

Before making a determination as to remuneration, pensions, allowances,
gratuities or compensation for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) ,
the IBCA must obtain the approval of the Secretary of State or the Minister
for the Cabinet Office as to its policy on that matter.

###### Interim chief executive

8

8.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may appoint a
person as an executive member to act as chief executive of the IBCA (“an
interim chief executive”) until the appointment of the first chief executive
by the Chair under paragraph  3 (1) .

8.2

An interim chief executive may incur expenditure and do other things in the
name of and on behalf of the IBCA until the appointment of the first chief
executive by the Chair under paragraph  3 (1) .

8.3

In exercising the power in sub-paragraph  (2) , an interim chief executive
must act in accordance with any directions given by the Secretary of State or
the Minister for the Cabinet Office.

8.4

Paragraphs  3 ,  5  and  7  do not apply to an interim chief executive.

###### Committees and sub-committees

9

9.1

The IBCA may appoint such committees and sub-committees as it considers
appropriate.

9.2

A committee or sub-committee may consist of or include persons who are neither
members, nor members of staff, of the IBCA.

9.3

The IBCA may pay such remuneration and allowances as it may determine to any
person who—

9.3.a

is a member of a committee or a sub-committee, but

9.3.b

is not a member of staff of the IBCA,

whether or not that person is a non-executive member of the IBCA.

###### Procedure

10

10.1

The IBCA may determine its own procedure and the procedure of any of its
committees or sub-committees.

10.2

The validity of any proceedings of the IBCA, or any committee or sub-committee
of the IBCA, is not affected by any vacancy among its members or by any defect
in the appointment of such a member.

###### Exercise of functions

11

11.1

The IBCA must have regard to the need to exercise its functions effectively,
efficiently and economically.

11.2

The IBCA may delegate any of its functions to—

11.2.a

a member of the IBCA,

11.2.b

a member of the IBCA’s staff authorised for that purpose, or

11.2.c

any committee or sub-committee.

11.3

A function may be delegated to the extent and on the terms that the IBCA
determines.

###### Funding

12

12.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must pay to the
IBCA—

12.1.a

such sums as are required to meet payments made by the IBCA under the infected
blood compensation scheme, and

12.1.b

such other sums as the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet
Office considers are reasonably sufficient to enable the IBCA to carry out its
functions.

12.2

Payments under sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  may be made subject to conditions.

12.3

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may by
regulations make provision about what the IBCA must do with any sums repaid to
it by virtue of  section 50 (5)  (which may include provision requiring the
sums to be paid to the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet
Office).

###### Annual report

13

13.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year the
IBCA must prepare a report on the exercise of its functions during that
financial year.

13.2

The IBCA must send the report to the Secretary of State or the Minister for
the Cabinet Office.

13.3

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must lay the
report before Parliament.

###### Accounts and audit

14

14.1

The IBCA must—

14.1.a

keep proper accounts and proper records in relation to them, and

14.1.b

prepare a statement of accounts in respect of each financial year in the form
specified by the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office.

14.2

The IBCA must send a copy of each statement of accounts to the Secretary of
State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office, and the Comptroller and Auditor
General, as soon as practicable after the end of the financial year to which
the statement relates.

14.3

The Comptroller and Auditor General must—

14.3.a

examine, certify and report on each statement of accounts, and

14.3.b

send a copy of each report and certified statement to the Secretary of State
or the Minister for the Cabinet Office.

14.4

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office must lay before
Parliament a copy of each such report and certified statement.

###### Meaning of “financial year”

15

In this Schedule “ financial year ” means—

15.a

the period beginning with the date on which the IBCA is established and ending
with 31 March following that date, and

15.b

each successive period of 12 months.

###### Provision of information

16

The IBCA must provide to the Secretary of State or the Minister for the
Cabinet Office such information relating to the IBCA’s functions as they may
request.

###### Status

17

17.1

The IBCA is not to be regarded—

17.1.a

as the servant or agent of the Crown, or

17.1.b

as enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

17.2

The IBCA’s property is not to be regarded as property of, or property held on
behalf of, the Crown.

17.3

Service as a member, or a member of staff, of the IBCA is not service in the
civil service of the State.

###### Seal and evidence

18

18.1

The application of the IBCA’s seal must be authenticated by a signature of—

18.1.a

a member of the IBCA, or

18.1.b

another person authorised for that purpose by the IBCA.

18.2

A document purporting to be duly executed under the IBCA’s seal or signed on
its behalf—

18.2.a

is to be received in evidence, and

18.2.b

is to be taken to be executed or signed in that way, unless the contrary is
shown.

18.3

But this paragraph does not apply in relation to any document which is, or is
to be, signed in accordance with the law of Scotland.

###### Supplementary powers

19

The IBCA may do anything it thinks appropriate for the purposes of, or in
connection with, its functions.

##### Transfer schemes

###### Power to make transfer schemes

20

20.1

The Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office may make one or
more schemes (“transfer schemes”) for the purpose of transferring to the IBCA
such property, rights and liabilities of a relevant person as the Secretary of
State or Minister considers appropriate for the purposes of enabling the IBCA
to carry out its functions under or by virtue of this Act.

20.2

In this paragraph “ relevant person ” means—

20.2.a

the Secretary of State;

20.2.b

the Minister for the Cabinet Office;

20.2.c

a Special Health Authority established under section 28 of the National Health
Service Act 2006;

20.2.d

the Welsh Ministers;

20.2.e

a National Health Service trust established under section 18 of the National
Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;

20.2.f

a Special Health Authority established under section 22 of the National Health
Service (Wales) Act 2006;

20.2.g

the Scottish Ministers;

20.2.h

a person who has at any time been appointed by the Scottish Ministers under
subsection (4)(d) of section 28 of the Smoking, Health and Social Care
(Scotland) Act  2005 (asp 13)  to manage a scheme made under that section;

20.2.i

the Department of Health in Northern Ireland;

20.2.j

the Regional Business Services Organisation established by section 14 of the
Health and Social Care (Reform) Act (Northern Ireland)  2009 (c. 1 (N.I.)) .

20.3

A transfer scheme may not be made—

20.3.a

in relation to a relevant person within sub-paragraph  (2) (d) ,  (e)  or  (f)
, unless the Welsh Ministers consent;

20.3.b

in relation to a relevant person within sub-paragraph  (2) (g)  or  (h) ,
unless the Scottish Ministers consent;

20.3.c

in relation to a relevant person within sub-paragraph  (2) (i)  or  (j) ,
unless the Department of Health in Northern Ireland consents.

20.4

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

20.4.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

20.4.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

20.4.c

criminal liabilities.

20.5

A transfer scheme may make supplementary, incidental, transitional or
consequential provision and may, in particular—

20.5.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

20.5.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by a relevant person
in respect of anything transferred;

20.5.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of, or in relation to, a relevant
person in respect of anything transferred;

20.5.d

make provision for references to an interim compensation authority in an
instrument or other document in respect of anything transferred to be treated
as references to the IBCA;

20.5.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

20.5.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the Transfer of Undertakings
(Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 );

20.5.g

make other supplemental, incidental, transitional or consequential provision.

20.6

A transfer scheme may provide for—

20.6.a

modifications by agreement;

20.6.b

modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came into
effect.

20.7

For the purposes of this paragraph—

20.7.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

20.7.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

20.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (7) —

20.8.a

an individual who holds employment in the civil service is to be treated as
employed by virtue of a contract of employment, and

20.8.b

the terms of the individual’s employment in the civil service of the State are
to be regarded as constituting the terms of the contract of employment.

###### Tax treatment of transfer schemes

21

21.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

21.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under paragraph  20 , or

21.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

21.2

The provision which may be made under sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  includes in
particular provision for—

21.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

21.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

21.2.c

the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office to be required
or permitted to determine, or specify the method for determining, anything
which needs to be determined for the purposes of any tax provision so far as
relating to anything transferred.

21.3

The provision which may be made under sub-paragraph  (1) (b)  includes in
particular provision for—

21.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of or in relation to the transfer;

21.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

21.3.c

the Secretary of State or the Minister for the Cabinet Office to be required
or permitted to determine, or specify the method for determining, anything
which needs to be determined for the purposes of any tax provision so far as
relating to anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the
transfer.

21.4

In this paragraph references to the transfer of property include the grant of
a lease.

21.5

In this paragraph—

      “ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax,
value added tax, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax;           “ tax
provision ” means any legislation about a relevant tax.

##### Amendments

###### Public Records Act 

22

In Part 2 of the Table in paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act
1958 (establishments and organisations whose records are public records), at
the appropriate place insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 

23

In the Schedule to the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960—

23.a

in paragraph 1 (bodies in England and Wales to which the Act applies), at the
end insert—

23.a.r

the Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

;

23.b

in paragraph 2 (bodies in Scotland to which the Act applies), at the end
insert—

23.b.g

the Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 

24

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (departments etc
subject to investigation), at the appropriate place insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975 (c. 24)

25

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975
(bodies all members of which are disqualified), at the appropriate place
insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act 

26

In Part 2 of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act
1975 (bodies all members of which are disqualified), at the appropriate place
insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### Freedom of Information Act 

27

In Part 6 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (other public
bodies), at the appropriate place insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

###### Equality Act 

28

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (authorities subject to the
public sector equality duty), under the heading “Health, social care and
social security”, at the appropriate place insert—

      The Infected Blood Compensation Authority.

  Offences relevant to public protection decisions

Section 59(9)

  Before Schedule 19 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 insert—       Schedule
18B     Offences relevant to public protection decisions     Section 237A(4)
Part 1   Common law offences     Offences under the law of England and Wales,
Scotland and Northern Ireland     1     Kidnapping.         2     Murder.
Offences under the law of England and Wales and Northern Ireland     3
Manslaughter.           Offences under the law of Scotland     4
Abduction.         5     Assault and poisoning.         6     Assault by
explosive device.         7     Assault to severe injury.         8
Assault with intent to rob.         9     Culpable homicide.         10
Malicious mischief.         11     Poisoning.         12     Robbery.
13     Wilful fire-raising.           Offences under the law of Northern
Ireland     14     Affray.         15     Riot.             Part 2   Statutory
offences     Offences against the Person Act 1861     16     An offence under
any of the following provisions of the Offences against the Person Act 1861—
a     section 4 (soliciting murder);         b     section 16 (threats to
kill);         c     section 18 (wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily
harm);         d     section 20 (malicious wounding);         e     section 21
(attempting to choke, suffocate or strangle in order to commit or assist in
committing an indictable offence);         f     section 22 (using chloroform
etc to commit or assist in the committing of any indictable offence);
g     section 23 (maliciously administering poison etc so as to endanger life
or inflict grievous bodily harm);         h     section 27 (abandoning
children);         i     section 28 (causing bodily injury by explosives);
j     section 29 (using explosives etc with intent to do grievous bodily
harm);         k     section 30 (placing explosives with intent to do bodily
injury);         l     section 31 (setting spring guns etc with intent to do
grievous bodily harm);         m     section 32 (endangering the safety of
railway passengers);         n     section 35 (injuring persons by furious
driving);         o     section 37 (assaulting officer preserving wreck);
p     section 38 (assault with intent to resist arrest);         q     section
47 (assault occasioning actual bodily harm).               Explosive
Substances Act 1883     17     An offence under any of the following
provisions of the Explosive Substances Act 1883—     a     section 2 (causing
explosion likely to endanger life or property);         b     section 3
(attempt to cause explosion, or making or keeping explosive with intent to
endanger life or property);         c     section 4 (making or possession of
explosive under suspicious circumstances);         d     section 5 (punishment
of accessories to offences of causing or attempting to cause explosions or
making or possessing explosives).               Infant Life (Preservation) Act
1929     18     An offence under section 1 of the Infant Life (Preservation)
Act 1929 (child destruction).           Children and Young Persons Act 1933
19     An offence under section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933
(cruelty to children).           Infanticide Act 1938     20     An offence
under section 1 of the Infanticide Act 1938 (infanticide).           Sexual
Offences Act 1956     21     An offence under section 33A of the Sexual
Offences Act 1956 (keeping a brothel used for prostitution).
Firearms Act 1968     22     An offence under any of the following provisions
of the Firearms Act 1968—     a     section 16 (possession of firearm with
intent to injure);         b     section 16A (possession of firearm with
intent to cause fear of violence);         c     section 17(1) (use of firearm
to resist arrest);         d     section 17(2) (possession of firearm at time
of committing or being arrested for offence specified in Schedule 1 to that
Act);         e     section 18 (carrying a firearm with criminal intent).
Theft Act 1968     23     An offence under any of the following provisions of
the Theft Act 1968—     a     section 8 (robbery or assault with intent to
rob);         b     section 9, where the offence is burglary with intent to—
i     inflict grievous bodily harm on a person, or         ii     do unlawful
damage to a building or anything in it;             c     section 10
(aggravated burglary);         d     section 12A (aggravated vehicle-taking).
Criminal Damage Act 1971     24       1     An offence of arson under section
1 of the Criminal Damage Act 1971.         2     An offence under section 1(2)
of that Act (destroying or damaging property), other than an offence of arson.
Biological Weapons Act 1974     25     An offence under section 1 of the
Biological Weapons Act 1974 (developing certain biological agents and toxins
or biological weapons).           Protection of Children Act 1978     26
An offence under section 1 of the Protection of Children Act 1978 (indecent
photographs of children).           Customs and Excise Management Act 1979
27     An offence under section 170 of the Customs and Excise Management Act
1979 (penalty for fraudulent evasion of duty etc) in relation to goods
prohibited to be imported under section 42 of the Customs Consolidation Act
1876 (indecent or obscene articles).           Taking of Hostages Act 1982
28     An offence under section 1 of the Taking of Hostages Act 1982 (hostage-
taking).           Aviation Security Act 1982     29     An offence under any
of the following provisions of the Aviation Security Act 1982—     a
section 1 (hijacking);         b     section 2 (destroying, damaging or
endangering safety of aircraft);         c     section 3 (other acts
endangering or likely to endanger safety of aircraft);         d     section 4
(offences in relation to certain dangerous articles);         e     section
6(2) (inducing or assisting the commission of offences relating to safety of
aircraft).               Nuclear Material (Offences) Act 1983     30     An
offence under section 2 of the Nuclear Material (Offences) Act 1983
(preparatory acts and threats).           Mental Health Act 1983     31     An
offence under section 127 of the Mental Health Act 1983 (ill-treatment of
patients).           Public Order Act 1986     32     An offence under any of
the following provisions of the Public Order Act 1986—     a     section 1
(riot);         b     section 2 (violent disorder);         c     section 3
(affray).               Criminal Justice Act 1988     33     An offence under
either of the following provisions of the Criminal Justice Act 1988—     a
section 134 (torture);         b     section 160 (possession of indecent
photograph of a child).               Road Traffic Act 1988     34     An
offence under any of the following provisions of the Road Traffic Act 1988—
a     section 1 (causing death by dangerous driving);         b     section
3ZC (causing death by driving: disqualified drivers);         c     section 3A
(causing death by careless driving when under influence of drink or drugs).
Aviation and Maritime Security Act 1990     35     An offence under any of the
following provisions of the Aviation and Maritime Security Act 1990—     a
section 1 (endangering safety at aerodromes);         b     section 9
(hijacking of ships);         c     section 10 (seizing or exercising control
of fixed platforms);         d     section 11 (destroying ships or fixed
platforms or endangering their safety);         e     section 12 (other acts
endangering or likely to endanger safe navigation);         f     section 13
(offences involving threats);         g     section 14(4) (inducing or
assisting the commission of offences relating to hijacking of ships, or
destroying ships or fixed platforms or endangering their safety).
Channel Tunnel (Security) Order 1994 ( S.I. 1994/570 )     36     An offence
under Part 2 of the Channel Tunnel (Security) Order 1994 ( S.I. 1994/570 )
(offences relating to Channel Tunnel trains and the tunnel system).
Chemical Weapons Act 1996     37     An offence under either of the following
provisions of the Chemical Weapons Act 1996—     a     section 2 (use etc of
chemical weapons);         b     section 11 (premises or equipment used for
producing chemical weapons).               Protection from Harassment Act 1997
38     An offence under either of the following provisions of the Protection
from Harassment Act 1997—     a     section 4 (putting people in fear of
violence);         b     section 4A (stalking involving fear of violence or
serious alarm or distress).               Crime and Disorder Act 1998     39
1     An offence under section 29 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (racially
or religiously aggravated assaults).         2     An offence falling within
section 31(1)(a) or (b) of that Act (racially or religiously aggravated
offences under section 4 or 4A of the Public Order Act 1986).
Terrorism Act 2000     40     An offence under any of the following provisions
of the Terrorism Act 2000—     a     section 11 (membership of a proscribed
organisation);         b     section 12 (inviting support for a proscribed
organisation etc);         c     section 15 (fund-raising);         d
section 16 (use or possession of money or property for terrorist purposes);
e     section 17 (involvement in terrorist funding arrangements);         f
section 17A (insurance against payments made in response to terrorist
demands);         g     section 18 (laundering of terrorist property);
h     section 19 (failure to disclose professional belief or suspicion about
terrorist offences);         i     section 21A (failure in regulated sectors
to disclose knowledge or suspicion about terrorist offences);         j
section 38B (failure to disclose information about acts of terrorism);
k     section 39 (disclosure of information prejudicial to a terrorist
investigation etc);         l     section 54 (weapons training);         m
section 56 (directing terrorist organisation);         n     section 57
(possession of article for terrorist purposes);         o     section 58
(collection of information likely to be of use to a terrorist);         p
section 58A (publishing information about members of the armed forces);
q     section 58B (entering or remaining in a designated area);         r
sections 59 to 61 (inciting terrorism overseas).               International
Criminal Court Act 2001     41     An offence under section 51 or 52 of the
International Criminal Court Act 2001 (genocide, crimes against humanity, war
crimes and related offences), other than one involving murder.           Anti-
terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001     42     An offence under any of the
following provisions of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001—     a
section 47 (use etc of nuclear weapons);         b     section 50 (assisting
or inducing certain weapons-related acts overseas);         c     section 113
(use of noxious substance or thing to cause harm or intimidate).
Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003     43     An offence under any of the
following provisions of the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003—     a
section 1 (female genital mutilation);         b     section 2 (assisting a
girl to mutilate her own genitalia);         c     section 3 (assisting a non-
UK person to mutilate overseas a girl's genitalia).               Sexual
Offences Act 2003     44     An offence under Part 1 of the Sexual Offences
Act 2003 (sexual offences), other than an offence under any of the following
provisions of that Act—     a     section 51A (soliciting);         b
section 53A (paying for sexual services of a prostitute subjected to force
etc);         c     section 71 (sexual activity in a public lavatory).
Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004     45     An offence under
section 5 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 (causing or
allowing a child or vulnerable adult to die or suffer serious physical harm).
Terrorism Act 2006     46     An offence under any of the following provisions
of the Terrorism Act 2006—     a     section 1 (encouragement of terrorism);
b     section 2 (dissemination of terrorist publications);         c
section 5 (preparation of terrorist acts);         d     section 6 (training
for terrorism);         e     section 8 (attendance at a place used for
terrorist training);         f     section 9 (making or possession of
radioactive device or material);         g     section 10 (misuse of
radioactive device or material for terrorist purposes etc);         h
section 11 (terrorist threats relating to radioactive devices etc).
Counter-Terrorism Act 2008     47     An offence under section 54 of the
Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (breach of police notification requirements etc).
Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011     48     An offence
under section 23 of the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act
2011 (breach of notices imposing terrorism prevention and investigation
measures).           Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015     49     An
offence under section 10 of the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015
(breach of temporary exclusion order).           Serious Crime Act 2015     50
An offence under section 75A of the Serious Crime Act 2015 (strangulation or
suffocation).           Modern Slavery Act 2015     51     An offence under
either of the following provisions of the Modern Slavery Act 2015—     a
section 1 (slavery, servitude and forced or compulsory labour);         b
section 2 (human trafficking).               Space Industry Act 2018     52
An offence under any of the following paragraphs of Schedule 4 to the Space
Industry Act 2018—     a     paragraph 1 (hijacking of spacecraft);         b
paragraph 2 (destroying, damaging or endangering the safety of spacecraft);
c     paragraph 3 (other acts endangering or likely to endanger safety of
spacecraft);         d     paragraph 4 (endangering safety at spaceports).

