Title: Wildlife Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-11-13
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/4

## Wildlife Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024

### Wildlife management

#### Glue traps

##### Offence of using glue trap

1

1.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to use a glue trap
for the purpose of killing or taking any animal other than an invertebrate.

1.2

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to use a glue trap
in a manner that is likely to cause bodily injury to any animal other than an
invertebrate that comes into contact with it.

1.3

It is an offence for a person to knowingly cause or permit an unauthorised
person to commit an offence under subsection (1) or (2).

1.4

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (1) or (2) if the person
is an authorised person.

1.5

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable—

1.5.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to a fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both),

1.5.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or to a fine (or both).

1.6

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is amended as follows—

1.6.a

in section 5 (prohibition of certain methods of killing or taking wild birds),
in subsection (1)(a), after “trap” insert  “(other than a glue trap within the
meaning of  section 1  of the Wildlife Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act
2024)” ,

1.6.b

in section 11 (prohibition of certain methods of killing or taking wild
animals), after subsection (2) insert—

1.6.b.2A

In subsection (2), “ trap ” does not include a glue trap within the meaning of
section 1  of the Wildlife Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024.

.

1.7

In this section—

      “ authorised person ” means a person—         authorised by the scheme
made under section 5, and           acting in accordance with the person’s
authorisation,         and references to the authorisation of a person are to
be construed accordingly,           “ glue trap ” means a trap that—
is designed, or is capable of being used, to catch an animal other than an
invertebrate, and           uses an adhesive substance as the means, or one of
the means, of capture.

##### Offence of supplying glue trap

2

2.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to supply, or offer
to supply, a glue trap.

2.2

It is an offence for a person to knowingly cause or permit an unauthorised
person to commit an offence under subsection (1).

2.3

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (1) if the person is an
authorised person.

2.4

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable—

2.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to a fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both),

2.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or to a fine (or both).

2.5

In this section—

      “ authorised person ” has the meaning given in section 1(7),           “
glue trap ” has the meaning given in section 1(7),           “ supply ” of a
glue trap includes—         selling it,           exchanging it for a
consideration other than money,           giving it as a prize or otherwise
making a gift of it,           otherwise making the glue trap available.

##### Offence of possessing glue trap

3

3.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to possess a glue
trap.

3.2

A person does not commit an offence under subsection (1) if the person is an
authorised person.

3.3

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable—

3.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or
to a fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both),

3.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or to a fine (or both).

3.4

In this section—

      “ authorised person ” has the meaning given in section 1(7),           “
glue trap ” has the meaning given in section 1(7).

##### Forfeiture and disposal of glue traps

4

4.1

Where a person is convicted of an offence under  section 1 ,  2  or  3 , the
court may make an order for the forfeiture or disposal of a glue trap—

4.1.a

to which the offence relates, or

4.1.b

that is in the possession of the person.

4.2

A constable may seize and retain a glue trap which may be the subject of an
order for forfeiture under this section.

4.3

Where a court orders the disposal of a glue trap seized and retained under
this Act by a constable, the glue trap may be disposed of in such manner as
the chief constable considers appropriate.

4.4

A sheriff or summary sheriff may, on an application of the chief constable,
order the disposal (by any means the chief constable considers appropriate) of
any glue trap seized and detained under  section 1 ,  2  or  3 .

4.5

In this section—

      “ chief constable ” has the same meaning as in section 99(1) of the
Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012,           “ constable ” has the
same meaning as in section 99(1) of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act
2012,           “ glue trap ” has the meaning given in  section 1 (7) .

##### Authorisation for use, supply or possession of glue trap

5

5.1

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, make a scheme for the
authorisation of the use, supply or possession of glue traps (“ the scheme ”)—

5.1.a

by specified persons,

5.1.b

in specified circumstances.

5.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  must provide that a person may only be
authorised under the scheme to use, supply or possess a glue trap if—

5.2.a

it is necessary or expedient to do so for the purpose of protecting public
health, and

5.2.b

no other method of rodent control is practicable.

5.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may in particular—

5.3.a

make provision about the application for authorisation under the scheme,
including the payment of such reasonable fee as the Scottish Ministers may
require in connection with an application,

5.3.b

make provision for the form and content of an application, including the
information that must be provided,

5.3.c

make provision relating to the grant of an authorisation, including the
criteria for granting an authorisation,

5.3.d

specify the maximum period for which an authorisation may be granted,

5.3.e

enable conditions to be attached to authorisations,

5.3.f

create an offence in connection with the provision of false statements for the
purposes of obtaining an authorisation,

5.3.g

make provision relating to the modification, suspension and revocation of an
authorisation,

5.3.h

provide for an appeal to be made against a decision to refuse to grant
authorisation, or to modify, suspend or revoke an authorisation,

5.3.i

require an applicant to complete a training course,

5.3.j

make provision relating to training courses, including—

5.3.j.i

determining training requirements, such as—

5.3.j.i.A

the form and content of the training course,

5.3.j.i.B

requiring a person providing training to meet specified criteria (such as
having relevant experience or holding a particular qualification),

5.3.j.ii

accrediting courses and the persons providing courses,

5.3.j.iii

determining the minimum criteria for successful completion and how successful
completion is to be recorded,

5.3.k

enable the Scottish Ministers to delegate their functions under the scheme to
local authorities.

5.4

The maximum penalty that may be provided for in regulations under  subsection
(1)  creating an offence is, on summary conviction, imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 12 months or a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale
(or both).

5.5

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

5.5.a

local authorities, and

5.5.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in, or affected,
by the authorisation of the use, supply or possession of glue traps.

5.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

5.7

In this section—

      “ glue trap ” has the meaning given in  section 1 (7) ,           “
specified ” means specified in regulations made under subsection (1),
“ supply ” has the meaning given in  section 2 (5) .

#### Snares

##### Prohibition of use of snares

6

6.1

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 11 (prohibition of certain methods of killing or taking wild
animals)—

6.2.a

for subsection (1)(a) and (aa) substitute—

6.2.a.ab

sets in position or otherwise uses a snare for the purpose of killing any
animal other than a wild bird,

6.2.a.ac

sets in position or otherwise uses a snare, other than a snare that is
operated by hand, for the purpose of taking any animal other than a wild bird,

6.2.a.ad

uses a snare which is of a nature or is placed (or both) so as to be likely to
cause bodily injury to any animal (other than a wild bird) coming into contact
with it,

,

6.2.b

subsection (1A) is repealed,

6.2.c

in subsection (2)—

6.2.c.i

in paragraph (a), the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.2.c.ii

after paragraph (a), insert—

6.2.c.ii.aa

uses a snare for the purpose of killing any wild animal included in Schedule 6
or 6ZA,

6.2.c.ii.ab

uses a snare, other than a snare that is operated by hand, for the purpose of
taking or restraining any wild animal included in Schedule 6 or 6ZA,

,

6.2.d

in subsection (3C), in the closing words, for “an order under subsection
(1)(a)” substitute  “regulations under subsection (3CA)” ,

6.2.e

after subsection (3C), insert—

6.2.e.3CA

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations specify types of snare for the
purpose of subsection (3C).

.

6.3

Sections 11A to 11F are repealed.

6.4

In section 16 (power to grant licences)—

6.4.a

in subsection (1A)—

6.4.a.i

the word “and” immediately following paragraph (a) is repealed,

6.4.a.ii

after paragraph (b) insert—

6.4.a.ii.c

must not grant a licence for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1) that
permits the use of a snare to kill a wild bird, and

6.4.a.ii.d

must not grant a licence for any purpose mentioned in subsection (1)(cb) to
(k) that permits the use of a snare to take a wild bird.

,

6.4.b

in subsection (3), in the opening words, the word “, 11C” is repealed,

6.4.c

after subsection (3) insert—

6.4.c.3ZZA

The appropriate authority must not grant a licence for any purpose mentioned
in subsection (3) that permits the use of a snare.

,

6.4.d

in subsection (3ZA), in the opening words, in both places they occur, the
words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.e

in subsection (3ZB)—

6.4.e.i

in paragraph (a), the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.e.ii

in paragraph (b), the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.e.iii

in paragraph (c), the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.f

in subsection (3ZC), in both places they occur, the words “or snare” are
repealed,

6.4.g

in subsection (3ZD), in both places they occur, the words “or snare” are
repealed,

6.4.h

in subsection (3ZE), in paragraph (a), the words “and snares” are repealed,

6.4.i

in subsection (3ZG), in the opening words, the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.j

in subsection (3ZH), in paragraph (a), the words “or snare” are repealed,

6.4.k

in subsection (3ZI)—

6.4.k.i

in paragraph (a), the words “or snares” are repealed,

6.4.k.ii

in paragraph (b), the words “or snares” are repealed,

6.4.k.iii

in paragraph (c), the words “or snares” are repealed.

6.5

In section 17—

6.5.a

in the opening words, the words “, an identification number under section
11A(4)” are repealed,

6.5.b

the title of the section becomes  “ False statements made for obtaining
registration or licence etc. ” .

6.6

In section 21 (penalties)—

6.6.a

in subsection (1A), paragraphs (e) to (g) are repealed,

6.6.b

in subsection (1C), paragraph (e) is repealed.

6.7

In section 26 (regulations, orders, notices etc.)—

6.7.a

in subsection (2), at the end of paragraph (e) (as inserted by section 7(5)(a)
of this Act) insert

; and

6.7.a.f

regulations under section 11(3CA),

,

6.7.b

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (e) (as inserted by section 7(5)(b)
of this Act) insert

; or

6.7.b.f

regulations under section 11(3CA),

.

#### Regulation of certain wildlife traps

##### Regulation of certain wildlife traps

7

7.1

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is amended as follows.

7.2

After section 12 insert—

########### Wildlife trap licensing

############ Requirements for use of traps

7.2.12A

7.2.12A.1

A person who uses a trap to which this section applies, for the purpose of
killing or taking a wild bird or wild animal that can otherwise be lawfully
killed or taken by those means, must have a wildlife trap licence.

7.2.12A.2

This section applies to the following traps—

7.2.12A.2.a

a trap for the purpose of taking wild birds,

7.2.12A.2.b

a trap approved by an order made under section 50 of the Agriculture
(Scotland) Act 1948 for the purposes of that section (other than a trap of a
description specified in an order made under subsection (7) of that section).

7.2.12A.3

A person who fails to comply with  subsection (1)  is guilty of an offence.

7.2.12A.4

A person who uses a trap to which this section applies must ensure—

7.2.12A.4.a

that the wildlife trap licence number of the person is displayed (in a manner
in which it will remain readable at all times) either—

7.2.12A.4.a.i

directly on the trap, or

7.2.12A.4.a.ii

on a tag that is fitted on the trap in such a manner that it is not capable of
being easily removed from the trap, and

7.2.12A.4.b

that the trap is used and monitored appropriately in accordance with the
approved training course for such a trap.

7.2.12A.5

A person who—

7.2.12A.5.a

has a wildlife trap licence and uses a trap to which this section applies, but

7.2.12A.5.b

fails to comply with  subsection (4)  in any respect,

is guilty of an offence.

7.2.12A.6

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

7.2.12A.6.a

tampers with a trap so that it no longer complies with the requirements of
this section, or

7.2.12A.6.b

disarms or destroys a trap to which this section applies,

is guilty of an offence.

7.2.12A.7

A person who knowingly causes or permits another person to commit an offence
under  subsection (6)  is guilty of an offence.

7.2.12A.8

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this Part to show
that—

7.2.12A.8.a

the trap was used for the purpose of killing or taking a wild bird or wild
animal which could be lawfully killed or taken by those means,

7.2.12A.8.b

the person had a wildlife trap licence and complied with  subsection (4) , and

7.2.12A.8.c

the person took all reasonable steps to prevent the killing, taking or injury
of any other animal (other than an invertebrate) not intended to be taken by
the trap.

7.2.12A.9

The wildlife trap licence number which is displayed on a trap to which this
section applies, or on a tag fitted to such a trap, is presumed in any
proceedings to be the wildlife trap licence number of the person who used the
trap.

7.2.12A.10

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend subsection  (2)  to add,
modify or remove traps (or descriptions of traps) to which this section
applies.

7.2.12A.11

Before making regulations under  subsection (10) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult Scottish Natural Heritage and such persons as they consider likely to
be interested in or affected by wildlife trap licensing.

7.2.12A.12

In this section—

      “ approved training course ” means a course approved under section  12E
,           “ wildlife trap licence ” means a licence granted under  section
12C (1)  and “ wildlife trap licence number ” is to be construed accordingly.

############ Application for wildlife trap licence

7.2.12B

7.2.12B.1

An application for a wildlife trap licence must—

7.2.12B.1.a

be made to the relevant authority,

7.2.12B.1.b

be made in such manner and form as the relevant authority may require,

7.2.12B.1.c

contain or be accompanied by such information as the relevant authority may
require,

7.2.12B.1.d

be accompanied by payment of such reasonable fee as the relevant authority may
require,

7.2.12B.1.e

include evidence that the applicant has completed a training course approved
under section  12E  in respect of the type of trap in question.

7.2.12B.2

The relevant authority must publicise any requirements which are for the time
being set under  subsection (1) (b) ,  (c)  or  (d) .

7.2.12B.3

In this section, “ relevant authority ” means—

7.2.12B.3.a

the Scottish Ministers, or

7.2.12B.3.b

where the Scottish Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their
functions under this section, Scottish Natural Heritage.

############ Grant and content of wildlife trap licence

7.2.12C

7.2.12C.1

The relevant authority may, on receipt of an application under section  12B ,
grant or renew a wildlife trap licence if—

7.2.12C.1.a

the applicant has completed an approved training course in respect of the type
of trap in question, and

7.2.12C.1.b

it is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so.

7.2.12C.2

A person may be issued with the same wildlife trap licence number—

7.2.12C.2.a

in respect of different types of traps (but must make an application and
complete the approved training course in respect of each type), and

7.2.12C.2.b

in respect of the renewal of an existing wildlife trap licence.

7.2.12C.3

A wildlife trap licence granted or renewed under  subsection (1) —

7.2.12C.3.a

must—

7.2.12C.3.a.i

specify the person to whom the licence is granted,

7.2.12C.3.a.ii

specify the wildlife trap licence number,

7.2.12C.3.a.iii

identify the type (or types) of wildlife traps to which the licence applies,

7.2.12C.3.a.iv

specify any conditions the relevant authority considers appropriate to attach
to the licence,

7.2.12C.3.b

may be granted or renewed for a period not exceeding 10 years.

7.2.12C.4

In this section—

      “ approved training course ” means a course approved under  section 12E
,           “ relevant authority ” means—         the Scottish Ministers, or
where the Scottish Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their
functions under this section, Scottish Natural Heritage.

############ Modification, suspension and revocation of licence

7.2.12D

7.2.12D.1

The relevant authority may—

7.2.12D.1.a

modify a wildlife trap licence at any time,

7.2.12D.1.b

suspend or revoke a wildlife trap licence if—

7.2.12D.1.b.i

the licence holder fails to comply with any conditions attached to the
licence,

7.2.12D.1.b.ii

the relevant authority is satisfied that the licence holder has committed a
relevant offence.

7.2.12D.2

The relevant authority must—

7.2.12D.2.a

notify the licence holder of the modification, suspension or revocation of the
person’s wildlife trap licence,

7.2.12D.2.b

specify in the notice the reason for the modification, suspension or
revocation, and

7.2.12D.2.c

specify in the notice the date from which the modification, suspension or
revocation is to have effect (which may be immediate).

7.2.12D.3

A licence holder whose wildlife trap licence is suspended is to be treated as
not having a wildlife trap licence for the duration of the suspension.

7.2.12D.4

A court which convicts a person of a relevant offence must notify the relevant
authority of the conviction.

7.2.12D.5

In this section—

      “ relevant authority ” means—         the Scottish Ministers, or
where the Scottish Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their
functions under this section, Scottish Natural Heritage.                 “
relevant offence ” means an offence under—         section 11 to 11C, 11E,
12A ,  12F  or 17 of this Act,           section 50 or 50A of the Agriculture
(Scotland) Act 1948,           regulation 41 of The Conservation (Natural
Habitats, &c.) Regulations 1994 ( S.I. 1994/2716 ),           the Wild Mammals
Protection Act 1996,           section 19 of the Animal Health and Welfare
(Scotland) Act 2006,           section 1  or  2  of the Wildlife Management
and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024.

############ Approved training courses

7.2.12E

7.2.12E.1

The relevant authority is to approve training courses in respect of the traps
to which section  12A  applies.

7.2.12E.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)  (and subject to any regulations made
under section  12G ), the relevant authority may—

7.2.12E.2.a

determine training requirements, such as—

7.2.12E.2.a.i

the form and content of courses for the appropriate use of different types of
trap,

7.2.12E.2.a.ii

requiring a person providing training to meet certain criteria (such as having
relevant experience or holding a particular qualification),

7.2.12E.2.b

require that any fee payable in connection with a course is reasonable,

7.2.12E.2.c

accredit courses and the persons providing courses,

7.2.12E.2.d

determine the minimum criteria for successful completion of courses, and

7.2.12E.2.e

determine how successful completion of such courses is to be recorded.

7.2.12E.3

In this section, “ relevant authority ” means—

7.2.12E.3.a

the Scottish Ministers, or

7.2.12E.3.b

where the Scottish Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their
functions under this section, Scottish Natural Heritage.

############ Authorisation from landowners etc. to use traps

7.2.12F

7.2.12F.1

Subject to the other provisions of this Part, a person who without reasonable
excuse—

7.2.12F.1.a

while on any land has in the person’s possession a trap without the
authorisation of the owner or occupier of the land, or

7.2.12F.1.b

uses a trap on any land without the authorisation of the owner or occupier of
the land,

is guilty of an offence.

7.2.12F.2

In this section, a reference to a trap is a reference to a trap to which
section  12A  applies.

############ Further provision

7.2.12G

7.2.12G.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision—

7.2.12G.1.a

about the use of a wildlife trap to which  section 12A  applies,

7.2.12G.1.b

about how the licence number of the person using such a trap is to be
displayed directly on the trap or on a tag fitted on it, and

7.2.12G.1.c

relating to approved training courses.

7.2.12G.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, include provision—

7.2.12G.2.a

relating to the training course (or courses) that a person must complete in
relation to the correct and appropriate use of a trap of the type the person
wishes to use,

7.2.12G.2.b

about the manner in which a tag is to be fitted for the purposes of section
12A (4)  and the material from which a tag is to be made,

7.2.12G.2.c

about the manner in which a wildlife trap licence number (and any additional
information required) is to appear on a trap or tag,

7.2.12G.2.d

amending the definition of “relevant offence” in  section 12D (5) .

7.2.12G.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult Scottish Natural Heritage and such persons as they consider likely to
be interested in or affected by wildlife trap licensing.

.

7.3

In section 16 (power to grant licences), in subsection (3), after “11G(1)”
insert  “,  12F ” .

7.4

In section 16A (delegation of licence-granting power: Scotland)—

7.4.a

after subsection (1) insert—

7.4.a.1A

The Scottish Ministers may delegate their functions in sections  12B ,  12C ,
12D  and  12E  to Scottish Natural Heritage.

,

7.4.b

after subsection (5)(a) insert—

7.4.b.ab

Scottish Natural Heritage under  subsection (1A)  is to be made by written
direction;

,

7.4.c

after subsection (5) insert—

7.4.c.5B

A direction under subsection (5) (ab)  may include provision allowing Scottish
Natural Heritage to modify or revoke licences that were granted before the
direction.

,

7.4.d

in subsection (7), after “subsection (5)(a)” insert  “or  (ab) ” .

7.5

In section 17 (false statements made for obtaining registration,
identification number or licence etc.), in the opening words, before “16”
insert  “ 12C ,” .

7.6

In section 21 (penalties, forfeitures etc.), after subsection (1A)(g) insert—

7.6.ga

section  12A ,

7.6.gb

section  12F ,

.

7.7

In section 26 (regulations, orders, notices etc.)—

7.7.a

in subsection (2)—

7.7.a.i

the “and” immediately following paragraph (a) is repealed,

7.7.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert—

7.7.a.ii.c

regulations under section 12A(8) or 12G(1),

,

7.7.b

in subsection (3)—

7.7.b.i

the “or” immediately following paragraph (a) is repealed,

7.7.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert—

7.7.b.ii.c

regulations under section 12A(8) or 12G(1),

.

7.8

In section 27 (interpretation of Part I), in subsection (1), after the
definition of “wild plant” insert—

      “ wildlife trap licence ” has the meaning given in  section 12A (12) ,
“ wildlife trap licence number ” is to be construed in accordance with
section 12A (12) .

.

##### Penalties relating to use of spring traps

8

8.1

The Agriculture (Scotland) Act 1948 is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 50 (prohibition of night shooting, and use of spring traps)—

8.2.a

in subsection (2), for “the foregoing subsection” substitute  “subsection
(1)(a)” ,

8.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

8.2.b.2A

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)(b), (c) or (d) is liable—

8.2.b.2A.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding £40,000 (or both),

8.2.b.2A.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

.

#### Licensing of land for killing and taking of certain birds

##### Killing and taking of certain birds permitted only on land with section 16AA licence

9

9.1

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is amended as follows.

9.2

In section 2 (exception to s. 1: acts by certain persons outside close
season)—

9.2.a

for subsection (1A) substitute—

9.2.a.1A

This subsection applies where—

9.2.a.1A.a

whatever the kind of bird in question—

9.2.a.1A.a.i

the person who killed or injured it had a legal right, or permission, to kill
such a bird; or

9.2.a.1A.a.ii

the person who took it had a legal right, or permission, to take such a bird;
and

9.2.a.1A.b

in the case of a bird included in Part 1B of Schedule 2—

9.2.a.1A.b.i

an owner or occupier of the land on which the bird was killed, injured or
taken held an unsuspended section 16AA licence; or

9.2.a.1A.b.ii

the person who killed, injured or took the bird reasonably believed that an
owner or occupier held an unsuspended section 16AA licence in relation to that
land.

9.2.a.1B

In  subsection (1A) , “ permission ” means permission from a person who has a
right to give it.

9.2.a.1C

Where subsection (1D) applies, a person does not commit an offence under
section 1 by reason of killing or taking a bird included in Part 1B of
Schedule 2 outside the close season for that bird, or the injuring of such a
bird outside that season in the course of an attempt to kill it.

9.2.a.1D

This subsection applies where—

9.2.a.1D.a

the bird was killed or taken through the use of a bird of prey, or injured in
an attempt to do so,

9.2.a.1D.b

either—

9.2.a.1D.b.i

the person who killed or injured it had a legal right, or permission, to kill
such a bird, or

9.2.a.1D.b.ii

the person who took it had a legal right, or permission, to take such a bird,
and

9.2.a.1D.c

in the case where the person subsequently killed the injured bird, the person
took all reasonable steps to kill it in a way that caused it the minimum
possible suffering.

,

9.2.b

in subsection (3C)—

9.2.b.i

in paragraph (a), the “and” immediately following sub-paragraph (ii) is
repealed,

9.2.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (b)(ii) insert

; and

9.2.b.ii.c

either—

9.2.b.ii.c.i

an owner or occupier of the land on which the bird was taken held an
unsuspended section 16AA licence in relation to the land; or

9.2.b.ii.c.ii

the person reasonably believed that an owner or occupier held an unsuspended
section 16AA licence in relation to that land.

.

9.3

In section 26 (regulations, orders, notices etc.)—

9.3.a

in subsection (2) at the end of paragraph (c) (as inserted by section 7(7)(a)
of this Act) insert—

9.3.a.d

an order under section 22(1)(a) which adds any bird to, or removes any bird
from, Part 1B of Schedule 2,

,

9.3.b

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (c) insert—

9.3.b.d

an order under section 22(1)(a) which adds any bird to, or removes any bird
from, Part 1B of Schedule 2,

.

9.4

In section 27 (interpretation of Part I), in subsection (1), after the
definition of “sale” insert—

      “ section 16AA licence ” has the meaning given by  section 16AA (1) .

.

9.5

In schedule 2, after Part IA insert—

########### Birds included in Part 1 which may only be killed or taken on land with section 16AA licence

    Common name Scientific name   Grouse, red Lagopus lagopus scoticus

.

##### Licensing: land on which certain birds may be killed or taken

10

10.1

The Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 is amended as follows.

10.2

After section 16 insert—

########### Licensing: land on which certain birds may be killed or taken

10.2.16AA

10.2.16AA.1

The relevant authority may, on the application of an owner or occupier of an
area of land, grant a licence for the purposes of permitting the killing or
taking of any type of bird included in Part 1B of Schedule 2 on the land (a
“section 16AA licence”), if it is satisfied that it is appropriate to do so.

10.2.16AA.2

In determining whether it is appropriate to grant a section 16AA licence the
relevant authority must have regard in particular to the applicant’s
compliance with a code of practice made in accordance with section 16AC.

10.2.16AA.3

Where the relevant authority refuses to grant a licence to an applicant, the
relevant authority must give written notice to the applicant of the reasons
for doing so.

10.2.16AA.4

An application for a section 16AA licence must—

10.2.16AA.4.a

be made to the relevant authority,

10.2.16AA.4.b

be made in such manner and form as the relevant authority may require,

10.2.16AA.4.c

specify the area of land to which the licence is to relate,

10.2.16AA.4.d

contain or be accompanied by such information as the relevant authority may
require, and

10.2.16AA.4.e

be accompanied by payment of such reasonable fee as the relevant authority may
require.

10.2.16AA.5

The relevant authority must publicise any requirements which are for the time
being set under  subsection (4) (b)  to  (e) .

10.2.16AA.6

A section 16AA licence—

10.2.16AA.6.a

must—

10.2.16AA.6.a.i

specify the person to whom the licence is granted (“the licence holder”),

10.2.16AA.6.a.ii

identify the area of land, by reference to a map, to which the licence
relates,

10.2.16AA.6.a.iii

specify any reasonable conditions the relevant authority considers appropriate
to attach to the licence, and

10.2.16AA.6.b

may be granted or renewed for a period not exceeding 5 years.

10.2.16AA.7

Every section 16AA licence is subject to the condition that the licence holder
must have regard to a code of practice made in accordance with section 16AC.

10.2.16AA.8

Conditions which may be specified under subsection (6)(a)(iii) include, in
particular, conditions drawn from a code of practice made in accordance with
section 16AC.

10.2.16AA.9

The relevant authority may—

10.2.16AA.9.a

modify a section 16AA licence at any time,

10.2.16AA.9.b

suspend or revoke a section 16AA licence if—

10.2.16AA.9.b.i

the licence holder—

10.2.16AA.9.b.i.A

fails to comply with any conditions attached to the licence, or

10.2.16AA.9.b.i.B

ceases to be in a position to ensure compliance with the conditions,

10.2.16AA.9.b.ii

the relevant authority is satisfied that the licence holder or a person
involved in managing the land to which the licence relates—

10.2.16AA.9.b.ii.A

has committed a relevant offence on the land, or

10.2.16AA.9.b.ii.B

has knowingly caused or permitted another person to do so.

10.2.16AA.10

Where the relevant authority has modified, suspended or revoked a person’s
section 16AA licence—

10.2.16AA.10.a

the relevant authority must give written notice to the person of the
modification, suspension or revocation and specify in the notice the reason
for the modification, suspension or revocation, and

10.2.16AA.10.b

the modification, suspension or revocation may not take effect until the end
of—

10.2.16AA.10.b.i

the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the notice is given, or

10.2.16AA.10.b.ii

such other period as the relevant authority considers appropriate and
specifies in the notice.

10.2.16AA.11

A licence holder whose section 16AA licence is suspended is to be treated as
not having a section 16AA licence for the duration of the suspension.

10.2.16AA.12

A court which convicts a person of a relevant offence must notify the Scottish
Ministers (or Scottish Natural Heritage if the functions under this section
have been delegated to that body) of the conviction.

10.2.16AA.13

In this section—

      “ relevant authority ” means—         the Scottish Ministers, or
where the Scottish Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their
functions in relation to section 16AA licences, Scottish Natural Heritage,
“ relevant offence ” means an offence under—         Part 1 of this Act,
the Protection of Badgers Act 1992,           Part 3 of the Conservation
(Natural Habitats, &c.) Regulations 1994 ( S.I. 1994/2716 ),           section
1 of the Wild Mammals (Protection) Act 1996,           section 19 of the
Animal Health and Welfare (Scotland) Act 2006,           the Hunting with Dogs
(Scotland) Act 2023.

10.2.16AA.14

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “relevant
offence” in  subsection (13) .

########### Appeals relating to section 16AA licences

10.2.16AB

10.2.16AB.1

A person may appeal to the appropriate sheriff against a decision of the
relevant authority to—

10.2.16AB.1.a

refuse to grant to the person a section 16AA licence,

10.2.16AB.1.b

attach a condition to the person’s section 16AA licence,

10.2.16AB.1.c

modify, suspend or revoke the person’s section 16AA licence.

10.2.16AB.2

An appeal under this section must be made within the period of 21 days
beginning with the day on which notice of the decision being appealed against
was given.

10.2.16AB.3

An appeal under this section is to be determined on the merits rather than by
way of review.

10.2.16AB.4

The sheriff hearing the appeal may consider any evidence or other matter,
whether or not it was available at the time the relevant authority made the
decision being appealed against.

10.2.16AB.5

Where a summary sheriff is hearing an appeal, the summary sheriff is to have
the same power to make an interim order under section 88(1) of the Courts
Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 as a sheriff hearing the appeal would have.

10.2.16AB.6

On determining the appeal, the sheriff may—

10.2.16AB.6.a

dismiss the appeal, or

10.2.16AB.6.b

give the relevant authority such direction as the sheriff considers
appropriate in respect of the decision that is the subject of the appeal.

10.2.16AB.7

The determination of the sheriff may be appealed against only on a point of
law.

10.2.16AB.8

In this section—

      “ appropriate sheriff ” means—         in a case where the appellant
resides in Scotland, a sheriff or summary sheriff of the sheriffdom in which
the appellant resides, or           in a case where the appellant resides
outwith Scotland, a sheriff or summary sheriff of the sheriffdom of Lothian
and Borders, sitting at Edinburgh,                 “ relevant authority ”
means—         the Scottish Ministers, or           where the Scottish
Ministers have delegated (by virtue of section 16A) their functions in
relation to licences, Scottish Natural Heritage,                 “ section
16AA licence ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 16AA (1) .

########### Section 16AA Licence: code of practice

10.2.16AC

10.2.16AC.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare a code of practice for the purpose of
providing guidance about managing land to which a section 16AA licence
relates.

10.2.16AC.2

A code of practice may, in particular, provide guidance on—

10.2.16AC.2.a

how land should be managed to reduce disturbance of and harm to any wild
animal, wild bird and wild plant (including the use of medicated grit for such
purposes),

10.2.16AC.2.b

how the taking or killing of any wild birds should be carried out,

10.2.16AC.2.c

how predators should be controlled.

10.2.16AC.3

The Scottish Ministers must review the current code of practice by the end of
every review period.

10.2.16AC.4

Following a review, the Scottish Ministers may revise the current code of
practice.

10.2.16AC.5

Before making, reviewing or revising a code of practice the Scottish Ministers
must consult—

10.2.16AC.5.a

Scottish Natural Heritage,

10.2.16AC.5.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by
the management of land to which a section 16AA licence relates.

10.2.16AC.6

Subsection (5)(a) does not apply during any period for which the functions
under this section are delegated to Scottish Natural Heritage under section
16AD .

10.2.16AC.7

As soon as practicable after the latest version of the code of practice is
made, it must be made publicly available.

10.2.16AC.8

In this section, “ review period ” means—

10.2.16AC.8.a

in relation to the first review, the period of 5 years starting on the day on
which subsection (1) is complied with, and

10.2.16AC.8.b

each subsequent period of 5 years.

########### Section 16AA Licence: delegation of power in relation to code of practice

10.2.16AD

10.2.16AD.1

The Scottish Ministers may delegate the preparation, publication, review and
revision of the code of practice under  section 16AC  to Scottish Natural
Heritage.

10.2.16AD.2

Any delegation must be made by written direction.

10.2.16AD.3

The Scottish Ministers may modify or revoke a direction.

########### Report on operation and effect of section 16AA licences

10.2.16AE

10.2.16AE.1

The Scottish Ministers must, for each reporting period, prepare a report on
the operation and effect of section 16AA licences.

10.2.16AE.2

The report must include an assessment of the conservation status, including
population size and range, of the following species—

10.2.16AE.2.a

golden eagle ( aquila chrysaetos ),

10.2.16AE.2.b

hen harrier ( circus cyaneus ),

10.2.16AE.2.c

peregrine falcon ( falco peregrinus ),

10.2.16AE.2.d

merlin ( falco columbarius ).

10.2.16AE.3

The report may include—

10.2.16AE.3.a

the number of licences issued under section 16AA and the area of land
affected,

10.2.16AE.3.b

the number of licences that have been, or are, subject to suspension or
revocation, the duration of those suspensions or revocations, and the reasons
for those suspensions or revocations,

10.2.16AE.3.c

the number and outcomes of any appeals undertaken under section 16AB, and

10.2.16AE.3.d

such other matters as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

10.2.16AE.4

As soon as practicable after each reporting period, the Scottish Ministers
must lay the report before the Scottish Parliament.

10.2.16AE.5

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend  subsection (2)  to add or
remove species of birds.

10.2.16AE.6

In this section, “ reporting period ” means—

10.2.16AE.6.a

in relation to the first report, the period of 5 years beginning on the day on
which section 16AA comes into force, and

10.2.16AE.6.b

in relation to each subsequent report, the period of 5 years beginning on the
day after the expiry of the previous reporting period.

########### Report on operation and effect of section 16AA licences: delegation

10.2.16AF

10.2.16AF.1

The Scottish Ministers may delegate the preparation and publication of the
report under section 16AE to Scottish Natural Heritage.

10.2.16AF.2

Any delegation must be made by written direction.

10.2.16AF.3

The Scottish Ministers may modify or revoke a direction.

.

10.3

In section 16A (delegation of licence-granting power: Scotland)—

10.3.a

after subsection (1) insert—

10.3.a.1B

The Scottish Ministers may delegate their functions in relation to licences
under section 16AA (other than the function in  section 16AA (14) ) to
Scottish Natural Heritage.

,

10.3.b

in subsection (3), in the opening words, after “delegation” insert  “under
subsection (1)” ,

10.3.c

in subsection (5), after paragraph (a) insert—

10.3.c.aa

Scottish Natural Heritage under  subsection (1B)  is to be made by written
direction,

,

10.3.d

after subsection (5) insert—

10.3.d.5A

A direction under subsection (5)(aa) may include provision allowing Scottish
Natural Heritage to modify or revoke licences that were granted before the
direction.

,

10.3.e

in subsection (7), after “subsection (5)(a)” insert  “or (5)(aa)” .

10.4

In section 17 (false statements made for obtaining registration,
identification number or licence etc.), in the opening words, after “section
16” insert  “or 16AA” .

10.5

In section 26 (regulations, orders, notices etc.)—

10.5.a

in subsection (2), at the end of paragraph (d) (as inserted by  section 9 (3)
(a)  of this Act) insert—

10.5.a.e

regulations under  section 16AA (14)  or  16AE (5) .

,

10.5.b

in subsection (3), at the end of paragraph (d) (as inserted by  section 9 (3)
(b)  of this Act) insert—

10.5.b.e

regulations under  section 16AA (14)  or  16AE (5) .

.

#### Investigation of wildlife offences

##### Powers to inspect and investigate certain wildlife offences

11

11.1

The Animal Health and Welfare (Scotland) Act 2006 is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 49 (vets, inspectors and constables)—

11.2.a

after subsection (2) insert—

11.2.a.2A

A local authority may not appoint a person as an inspector under subsection
(2)(b) for the purposes of paragraph 5A of schedule 1.

,

11.2.b

in subsection (3), for “subsection (2)(b)” substitute  “subsections (2)(b) and
(2A)” .

11.3

In section 51 (regulations), after subsection (3) insert—

11.3.4

For the avoidance of doubt, in this section “ this Part ” includes schedule 1.

.

11.4

In schedule 1 (powers of inspectors and constables for Part 2), after
paragraph 5 insert—

########### Supplementary powers of inspectors: evidence gathering in connection with wildlife offences

11.4.5A

11.4.5A.1

An inspector, having entered non-domestic premises in exercise of a relevant
power, may search for, examine and seize any thing tending to provide evidence
of the commission of, or participation in, a relevant offence.

11.4.5A.2

In this paragraph—

      “ relevant offence ” is an offence under—         the following
provisions of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981—         section 1
(protection of wild birds etc.),           section 5 (prohibition of certain
methods of killing or taking wild birds),           section 6 (sale etc. of
wild birds),           section 7 (registration of certain captive birds),
section 8 (protection of captive birds),           section 9 (protection of
certain wild animals),           section 10A (protection of wild hares),
section 11 (prohibition of certain methods of killing or taking wild animals),
section 11G (prevention of poaching: wild hares, rabbits etc.),
section 11I (sale, possession, etc. of wild hares, rabbits etc.),
section 12A (requirements for use of traps),           section 12F
(authorisation from landowners etc. to use traps),           section 15A
(possession of pesticides),                 section 1 or 2 of the Wildlife
Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024,                 “ thing ”
includes any animal (including the carcase of an animal), equipment or
document.

11.4.5A.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the definition of “relevant
offence” in sub-paragraph (2).

.

### Muirburn licensing

#### Requirement for muirburn licence

##### Requirement for muirburn licence

12

12.1

A person must not, without reasonable excuse, make muirburn on any land except
under and in accordance with a muirburn licence which has effect in relation
to the land.

12.2

It is an offence for a person to—

12.2.a

make muirburn in contravention of  subsection (1) , or

12.2.b

cause or permit another person to make muirburn in contravention of
subsection (1) .

12.3

It is not an offence under subsection (2) for a person to make muirburn on
peatland if the muirburn licence relating to that land specifies that the land
is not peatland.

12.4

It is not an offence under subsection (2) for a person to make muirburn on
land to which a muirburn licence relates if muirburn is made in connection
with the person’s completion of a training course approved under section 17.

12.5

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (2)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

#### Muirburn licences

##### Application for muirburn licence

13

13.1

An owner or occupier of land may apply for a licence permitting muirburn to be
made, for a purpose mentioned in  subsection (2) , on the land to which the
application relates.

13.2

The purposes are—

13.2.a

where the land to which the application relates is not peatland—

13.2.a.i

managing the habitats of moorland game or wildlife,

13.2.a.ii

improving the grazing potential of moorland for livestock,

13.2.a.iii

conserving, restoring, enhancing or managing the natural environment,

13.2.a.iv

preventing, or reducing the risk of, wildfires causing damage to habitats,

13.2.a.v

preventing, or reducing the risk of, wildfires causing harm to people or
damage to property,

13.2.a.vi

research,

13.2.b

where the land to which the application relates is peatland—

13.2.b.i

restoring the natural environment,

13.2.b.ii

preventing, or reducing the risk of, wildfires causing damage to habitats,

13.2.b.iii

preventing, or reducing the risk of, wildfires causing harm to people or
damage to property,

13.2.b.iv

research.

13.3

An application under  subsection (1) —

13.3.a

must be made—

13.3.a.i

to the Scottish Ministers, and

13.3.a.ii

in such manner and form as the Scottish Ministers may require,

13.3.b

must—

13.3.b.i

identify the land to which the application relates, specifying whether the
land is or is not peatland,

13.3.b.ii

specify for which of the purposes mentioned in  subsection (2) (a)  or, as the
case may be,  (b)  muirburn is proposed to be made, and

13.3.b.iii

include or be accompanied by such other information as the Scottish Ministers
may require,

13.3.c

must be accompanied by payment of such reasonable fee as the Scottish
Ministers may require, and

13.3.d

must include evidence that the person who will make muirburn has completed a
training course approved under  section 17 .

13.4

The Scottish Ministers must publicise any requirements which are for the time
being set under  subsection (3) (a) (ii) ,  (b) (iii)  or  (c) .

13.5

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, modify the lists of purposes in
paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (2)  so as to amend, remove or add
to the purposes for the time being mentioned in those lists.

13.6

Before making regulations under  subsection (5) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

13.6.a

Scottish Natural Heritage, and

13.6.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by
the licensing of muirburn.

13.7

Regulations under  subsection (5)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

13.8

It is an offence for a person to knowingly or recklessly make any statement
which is false in any material particular for the purpose of obtaining a
muirburn licence.

13.9

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (8)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Grant of muirburn licence

14

14.1

Subject to subsection (2), the Scottish Ministers must grant a licence
permitting muirburn to be made on land to which an application under  section
13  relates for a purpose specified in the application if—

14.1.a

they consider it appropriate to do so, having regard in particular to the
applicant’s compliance with the Muirburn Code,

14.1.b

where the land to which the application relates is peatland, they are
satisfied that—

14.1.b.i

the making of muirburn is necessary for the specified purpose, and

14.1.b.ii

no other method of vegetation control is practicable, and

14.1.c

they are satisfied that the person who will make muirburn has completed a
training course approved under  section 17 .

14.2

The Scottish Ministers—

14.2.a

must not grant a licence permitting muirburn to be made outwith the muirburn
season for the purpose mentioned in section 13(2)(a)(i) or (ii),

14.2.b

may grant a licence permitting muirburn to be made outwith the muirburn season
for any of the purposes mentioned in section 13(2)(a)(iii) to (vi) only if
they are satisfied that it is necessary to do so.

14.3

The Scottish Ministers may, if they consider it appropriate to do so, grant a
licence under  subsection (1)  in relation to only some of the—

14.3.a

land to which the application relates,

14.3.b

purposes specified in the application.

14.4

In  this Part , “ muirburn licence ” means a licence granted under  subsection
(1) .

##### Muirburn licences: content and conditions

15

15.1

A muirburn licence must—

15.1.a

specify the person to whom it is granted,

15.1.b

identify, by reference to a map, the land to which the licence relates,

15.1.c

specify—

15.1.c.i

whether the land to which the licence relates is not peatland or is peatland,
and

15.1.c.ii

for which of the purposes mentioned in  section 13 (2) (a)  or, as the case
may be,  (b)  the licence permits muirburn to be made, and

15.1.d

specify the period for which the licence is to have effect.

15.2

Every muirburn licence is subject to the following conditions—

15.2.a

the person to whom the licence is issued must have regard to the Muirburn
Code,

15.2.b

a person intending to make muirburn on land to which the licence relates must—

15.2.b.i

complete a training course approved under section 17 before making muirburn,

15.2.b.ii

have regard to the Muirburn Code, and

15.2.b.iii

comply with the requirements of  section 19 .

15.3

The Scottish Ministers may, if they consider it appropriate to do so, specify
in a muirburn licence additional conditions to which the licence is subject.

15.4

Conditions which may be specified under  subsection (3)  include, in
particular—

15.4.a

provisions of the Muirburn Code,

15.4.b

conditions as to the persons, or types of person, who may make muirburn on the
land to which the licence relates,

15.4.c

conditions as to the reporting of activities carried out under the licence,

15.4.d

further conditions as to the giving of notice prior to the making of muirburn
on the land to which the licence relates.

15.5

Different conditions may be specified under  subsection (3)  for different
purposes, including in particular—

15.5.a

different conditions for different times of the year, and

15.5.b

different conditions for different land.

##### Modification, suspension and revocation of muirburn licence

16

16.1

The Scottish Ministers may—

16.1.a

modify a muirburn licence at any time,

16.1.b

suspend or revoke a muirburn licence if they are satisfied that a relevant
person has committed an offence under this Part.

16.2

The Scottish Ministers must give the person to whom the muirburn licence was
issued written notice of the modification, suspension or revocation of the
licence.

16.3

Notice under  subsection (2)  must give reasons for the modification,
suspension or revocation of the muirburn licence.

16.4

The modification, suspension or revocation of the licence may not take effect
until the end of—

16.4.a

the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which notice under  subsection
(2)  is given, or

16.4.b

such other period as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate and specify
in the notice.

16.5

A muirburn licence is of no effect while suspended.

16.6

A court which convicts a person of an offence under this Part must notify the
Scottish Ministers (or Scottish Natural Heritage if the functions under this
section have been delegated to that body under  section 21 ) of the
conviction.

16.7

In this section, “ relevant person ” means—

16.7.a

the person to whom the muirburn licence was issued,

16.7.b

any other person involved in managing the land to which the muirburn licence
relates.

##### Approved training courses

17

17.1

The Scottish Ministers are to approve training courses on muirburn and the
Muirburn Code.

17.2

The Scottish Ministers may—

17.2.a

determine training requirements, such as—

17.2.a.i

the form and content of the training course,

17.2.a.ii

requiring a person providing training to meet specified criteria (such as
having relevant experience or holding a particular qualification),

17.2.b

require that any fee payable in connection with a course is reasonable,

17.2.c

accredit courses and the persons providing courses,

17.2.d

determine the minimum criteria for successful completion of courses, and

17.2.e

determine how successful completion of such courses is to be recorded.

#### Making muirburn

##### Muirburn Code

18

18.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare a code (the “Muirburn Code”) in relation
to how to make muirburn safely and appropriately.

18.2

The Muirburn Code may, in particular, include provision as to—

18.2.a

how the thickness of a layer of peat is to be determined,

18.2.b

the times of day muirburn may be made,

18.2.c

safety requirements when making muirburn.

18.3

The Scottish Ministers must review and, if they consider it appropriate,
revise the Muirburn Code by the end of each review period.

18.4

The Scottish Ministers must publish the Muirburn Code prepared under
subsection (1)  and any revised code under  subsection (3)  as soon as
practicable after it is prepared or, as the case may be, revised.

18.5

The Scottish Ministers must, in preparing, reviewing or revising the Muirburn
Code, consult—

18.5.a

Scottish Natural Heritage, and

18.5.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by
the making of muirburn including persons involved in the management of land on
which muirburn may be made.

18.6

Subsection (5) (a)  does not apply during any period for which the functions
under  this section  are delegated to Scottish Natural Heritage under  section
21 .

18.7

In  this section , “ review period ” means—

18.7.a

the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which  section 12  comes into
force, and

18.7.b

each subsequent period of 5 years.

##### Notice of muirburn activity

19

19.1

A person who intends to make muirburn must give notice in writing under  this
section  to—

19.1.a

the owner of the proposed muirburn site (if different from the person making
the muirburn), and

19.1.b

any occupier of land situated within 1 kilometre of the proposed muirburn
site.

19.2

Notice need not be given to a person (“ A ”) under  this section  if A has
given notice in writing to the person intending to make muirburn that A wishes
not to be notified of any intention to make muirburn.

19.3

Where there are 10 or more occupiers of land situated within 1 kilometre of
the proposed muirburn site, the person intending to make muirburn may, instead
of giving notice under  subsection (1) (b)  to each occupier separately,
notify those occupiers collectively—

19.3.a

by placing a notice in at least one newspaper circulating in the area which
includes the proposed muirburn site, or

19.3.b

by such other method as the Scottish Ministers may specify (whether in the
Muirburn Code or otherwise) having regard to the need for the cost of giving
notice to be reasonable to a person who intends to make muirburn.

19.4

The Scottish Ministers must publicise any method for the time being specified
(otherwise than in the Muirburn Code) for the purposes of  subsection (3) (b)
.

19.5

Notice under  subsection (1)  must—

19.5.a

be given not less than 7 days before the muirburn is made,

19.5.b

identify the proposed muirburn site (or sites),

19.5.c

inform the person to whom notice is given (“ A ”) that A may require the
person intending to make muirburn to provide further information in relation
to—

19.5.c.i

the dates on or between which the muirburn is intended to be made,

19.5.c.ii

the proposed muirburn site (or sites), and

19.5.c.iii

the approximate extent of the proposed muirburn.

19.6

Where the owner of the proposed muirburn site or an occupier of land situated
within 1 kilometre of the proposed muirburn site requests any of the further
information mentioned in  subsection (5) (c) , the person intending to make
the muirburn must make reasonable efforts to comply with the request no later
than the end of the day before the muirburn is made.

19.7

Any notice required to be given to an owner of land under  this section  may
be given to any person purporting to be authorised by the owner to receive the
notice.

19.8

Any notice required to be given under  this section  may, as an alternative to
being given by a method specified in section 26 of the Interpretation and
Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010, be given—

19.8.a

by leaving it at an address to which it may be sent by virtue of subsection
(2)(b) of that section, or

19.8.b

where the identity of an occupier cannot, after reasonable inquiry, be
ascertained by—

19.8.b.i

addressing the notice to “ Any occupiers of the land ” (describing it), and

19.8.b.ii

affixing it to some conspicuous object on the land.

##### Muirburn season

20

20.1

For the purposes of  this Part , the muirburn season is the period of time
from 15 September in any year to 31 March in the following year.

20.2

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, amend the dates in  subsection (1)
to extend or reduce the muirburn season.

20.3

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations under  subsection (2)  only if
they consider it necessary or expedient to do so—

20.3.a

in relation to climate change, or

20.3.b

for the purpose of—

20.3.b.i

conserving, restoring, enhancing or managing the natural environment,

20.3.b.ii

preventing, or reducing the risk of, wildfires causing harm to people or
damage to property.

20.4

The power under  subsection (2)  (by virtue of  section 33 ) to make different
provision for different purposes includes in particular power to make
different provision for—

20.4.a

different land (for example, land at different altitudes),

20.4.b

different years.

20.5

Before making regulations under  subsection (2) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

20.5.a

Scottish Natural Heritage, and

20.5.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by
the making of muirburn, including persons involved in the management of land
on which muirburn may be made.

20.6

Regulations under  subsection (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Delegation

21

21.1

The Scottish Ministers may delegate the following functions to Scottish
Natural Heritage—

21.1.a

the application and granting of muirburn licences under sections  13 ,  14
and  15 ,

21.1.b

the modification, suspension and revocation of muirburn licences under
section 16 ,

21.1.c

the approval of training courses under  section 17 ,

21.1.d

the preparation, publication, review and revision of the Muirburn Code under
section 18 ,

21.1.e

the functions in relation to the methods by which notice of the making of
muirburn may be given conferred by  section 19 (3) (b)  and  (4) .

21.2

Any delegation must be made by written direction.

21.3

Unless it specifies otherwise, a delegation under this section includes power
to modify, suspend or revoke licences granted before the direction is made.

21.4

The Scottish Ministers may modify or revoke a direction.

21.5

Any licence which is in effect at the time a direction is revoked continues in
effect following the revocation of the direction (unless the revocation
specifies otherwise).

##### Interpretation of Part

22

22.1

In this Part—

      “ Muirburn Code ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 18 (1)
and includes any supplementary material,           “ muirburn licence ” has
the meaning given in  section 14 (4) ,           “ muirburn season ” is to be
construed in accordance with  section 20 (1) ,           “ peat ” means soil
which has an organic content (that is, content consisting of living and dead
plant and animal material) of more than 60%,           “ peatland ” means land
where the soil has a layer of peat with a thickness of more than 40
centimetres.

22.2

In this Part, references to the making of muirburn include references to the
setting of fire to, or the burning of, any heath or muir.

22.3

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, amend the definition of “peat” and
“peatland” in  subsection (1) .

22.4

Before making regulations under  subsection (3) , the Scottish Ministers must
consult—

22.4.a

Scottish Natural Heritage, and

22.4.b

such other persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by
the making of muirburn.

22.5

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Repeals and consequential amendments

23

23.1

The Hill Farming Act 1946 is amended as follows.

23.2

Sections 23 to 23C are repealed.

23.3

In section 24 (right of tenant to make muirburn notwithstanding terms of
lease)—

23.3.a

in subsection (1), after “Act” insert  “and  Part 2  of the Wildlife
Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024” ,

23.3.b

in subsection (4), after “Act” insert  “and  Part 2  of the Wildlife
Management and Muirburn (Scotland) Act 2024” .

23.4

Sections 25 and 26 are repealed.

23.5

In section 26A—

23.5.a

in subsection (1), the words “or 26” are repealed,

23.5.b

subsection (2) is repealed,

23.5.c

the title to the section becomes  “ Giving of muirburn notices under section
24(2) ” .

23.6

Section 27 is repealed.

23.7

In section 27A—

23.7.a

in subsection (1), for “23 to 27 (including orders made under section 23B)”
substitute  “24 and 26A” ,

23.7.b

in subsection (2), for “23 to 27” substitute  “24 and 26A” ,

23.7.c

in subsection (3), for “23 to 27 (including orders made under section 23B)”
substitute  “24 and 26A” ,

23.7.d

the title to the section becomes  “ Crown application: sections 24 and 26A ” .

### Miscellaneous and general provisions

#### Enforcement provisions

##### Powers of entry, search and seizure with warrant

24

24.1

A sheriff or justice of the peace may grant a warrant under this section if
the sheriff or justice of the peace is satisfied—

24.1.a

by evidence on oath, that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—

24.1.a.i

that an offence under  section 1 ,  2 ,  3  or  12  has been, or is being,
committed at the premises, or

24.1.a.ii

that there is evidence at the premises of the commission of an offence under
section 1 ,  2 ,  3  or  12 , and

24.1.b

condition A or condition B has been satisfied in relation to the premises.

24.2

Condition A is—

24.2.a

admission to the premises has been refused or a refusal may be reasonably
expected, and

24.2.b

notice of the intention to seek a warrant has been given to the occupier of
the premises, or the giving of such notice would frustrate the purpose for
which the warrant is sought.

24.3

Condition B is—

24.3.a

that the premises are unoccupied, or

24.3.b

that the occupier is temporarily absent.

24.4

A warrant granted under this section remains in force until—

24.4.a

it is no longer required for the purpose for which it is granted, or

24.4.b

otherwise, the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which
it was granted.

24.5

A warrant granted under this section may authorise a constable to—

24.5.a

enter the premises by force if necessary,

24.5.b

search the premises and any person found in the premises,

24.5.c

seize and retain any item or material found on the premises, or on any person
in the premises, if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
it may provide evidence of the commission of an offence under section  1 ,  2
,  3  or  12 .

24.6

A constable may take to a place entered by virtue of this section any other
person, or any equipment, as may be necessary for the purposes of assisting
the constable (and such a person is to act under the constable’s direction at
all times).

24.7

A constable who is authorised by a warrant granted under this section to seize
and detain material may, if the material is only capable of being looked at,
read, watched or listened to (as the case may be) after conversion from data
stored in another form, require that the material—

24.7.a

be converted into such a form in a way which enables it to be taken away, or

24.7.b

be produced in a form which is capable of being taken away and from which it
can be readily converted.

24.8

In this section, “ premises ” includes any—

24.8.a

land or building,

24.8.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

24.8.c

tent or moveable structure,

(whether or not the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling).

24.9

In this section and in  section 25 , “ constable ” has the same meaning as in
section 99(1) of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012.

##### Further restrictions on power of entry

25

25.1

The power of entry under  section 24  may be exercised only at a reasonable
time of day.

25.2

On leaving any premises which a constable is authorised to enter under a
warrant, the constable must, if the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is
temporarily absent, leave the premises as effectively secured against entry as
the constable found them.

##### Powers of local weights and measures authorities

26

The schedule makes provision about the powers of a local weights and measures
authority (and its officers) to enforce the offences under sections  2  and  3
in its area and related matters.

##### Offence of obstructing officer of local weights and measures authority

27

27.1

It is an offence for a person to—

27.1.a

intentionally obstruct an officer of a local weights and measures authority
who is exercising powers under the schedule,

27.1.b

intentionally fail to comply with any requirement made of the person by an
officer of a local weights and measures authority under paragraph 9, 10 or 12
of the schedule,

27.1.c

fail, without reasonable cause, to give an officer of a local weights and
measures authority any other assistance or information which the officer may
reasonably require for the purposes of the exercise of the officer’s powers
under the schedule.

27.2

It is an offence for a person, in giving any information that is required of
the person by virtue of  subsection (1) (c) —

27.2.a

to make any statement that the person knows is false in a material particular,
or

27.2.b

recklessly to make a statement that is false in a material particular.

27.3

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or to a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Offence of impersonating officer of a local weights and measures authority

28

28.1

It is an offence for a person who is not an officer of a local weights and
measures authority to purport to act as such an officer in the exercise of
powers under the schedule.

28.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

##### Individual culpability where organisation commits offence

29

29.1

This section applies where—

29.1.a

an offence under  section 1 ,  2  or  3  or  Part 2  is committed by a
relevant organisation, and

29.1.b

the commission of the offence involves consent or connivance on the part of a
responsible individual.

29.2

The responsible individual (as well as the relevant organisation) commits the
offence.

29.3

For the purposes of this section—

29.3.a

“ relevant organisation ” means an organisation listed in the first column of
the table in subsection (4),

29.3.b

“ responsible individual ” means, in relation to a relevant organisation—

29.3.b.i

an individual falling within the corresponding entry in the second column of
the table in subsection (4), or

29.3.b.ii

an individual purporting to act in the capacity of an individual falling
within the corresponding entry.

29.4

The table is as follows—

    Relevant organisation Responsible individual   company as mentioned in
section 1 of the Companies Act 2006 director, manager, secretary or other
similar officer member, where the company's affairs are managed by its members
limited liability partnership member other partnership partner any other body
or association individual who is concerned in the management or control of its
affairs

##### Crown application: criminal offences

30

30.1

Nothing in this Act makes the Crown criminally liable.

30.2

The Court of Session may, on an application by the Lord Advocate, declare
unlawful any act or omission for which the Crown would be criminally liable if
it were not for  subsection (1) .

30.3

Subsection (1)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

##### Crown application: powers of entry

31

31.1

A warrant granted under  section 24  is exercisable in relation to Crown land
specified in column 1 of the following table only with the consent of the
person specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of the table (the
“appropriate authority”).

      Crown land Appropriate authority   Land an interest in which belongs to
His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the Crown Estate
(that is, the property, rights and interests under the management of the Crown
Estate Commissioners) The Crown Estate Commissioners Land an interest in which
belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the
Scottish Crown Estate The person managing the land Land an interest in which
belongs to His Majesty in right of the Crown other than land forming part of
the Crown Estate or the Scottish Crown Estate The office-holder in the
Scottish Administration or, as the case may be, the Government department
managing the land Land an interest in which belongs to His Majesty in right of
His private estates The person appointed by His Majesty in writing under the
Royal Sign Manual or, if no such appointment is made, the Scottish Ministers
Land an interest in which belongs to an office-holder in the Scottish
Administration The office-holder in the Scottish Administration Land an
interest in which belongs to a Government department The Government department
Land an interest in which is held in trust for His Majesty by an office-holder
in the Scottish Administration for the purposes of the Scottish Administration
The office-holder in the Scottish Administration Land an interest in which is
held in trust for His Majesty for the purposes of a Government department The
Government department

31.2

In  subsection (1) —

31.2.a

the reference to His Majesty’s private estates is to be construed in
accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862,

31.2.b

“ Government department ” means a department of the Government of the United
Kingdom,

31.2.c

“ Scottish Crown Estate ” means the property, rights and interests to which
section 90B(5) of the Scotland Act 1998 applies.

31.3

It is for the Scottish Ministers to determine any question that arises as to
who in accordance with  subsection (1)  is the appropriate authority in
relation to any land, and their decision is final.

#### Review of operation and effectiveness

##### Review of operation and effectiveness

32

32.1

The Scottish Ministers must carry out a review of the operation and
effectiveness of—

32.1.a

the prohibition of the use of glue traps under this Act,

32.1.b

the prohibition of the use of snares under the Wildlife and Countryside Act
1981,

32.1.c

the extension of the powers of inspectors under the Animal Health and Welfare
(Scotland) Act 2006 by section 11 of this Act, and

32.1.d

the licensing of the making of muirburn under this Act.

32.2

The review may also review the operation and effectiveness of any other matter
included in this Act.

32.3

The review must be completed no later than 5 years after the day on which this
Act receives Royal Assent.

32.4

When conducting the review, the Scottish Ministers must consult—

32.4.a

Scottish Natural Heritage, and

32.4.b

such persons as they consider are likely to be interested in or affected by
the matters that are included in the review.

32.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after carrying out the review, the Scottish
Ministers must—

32.5.a

prepare a report of the review’s findings and include—

32.5.a.i

a statement of any action the Scottish Ministers intend to take as a result of
the review, and

32.5.a.ii

where the Scottish Ministers do not intend to take any action, their reasons
for this,

32.5.b

lay the report before the Scottish Parliament, and

32.5.c

publish the report.

#### General provisions

##### Regulations

33

33.1

Any power of the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under this Act
includes power to make—

33.1.a

different provision for different purposes,

33.1.b

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

33.2

This section does not apply to  section 35 (2) .

##### Ancillary provision

34

34.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

34.2

Regulations under this section may modify any enactment (including this Act).

34.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

34.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act (including this Act), but

34.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Commencement

35

35.1

This section and section  36  come into force on the day after Royal Assent.

35.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

35.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

35.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

35.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

##### Short title

36

The short title of this Act is the Wildlife Management and Muirburn (Scotland)
Act 2024.

  Investigatory powers of a local weights and measures authority

(introduced by section 26)

##### General

1

1.1

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may exercise the
powers under this schedule for the purpose of ascertaining whether an offence
under  section 2  (offence of supplying glue trap) or  3  (offence of
possessing glue trap) has been, or is being, committed.

1.2

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may exercise the
power under  paragraph 8  (power to seize and retain items) in relation to—

1.2.a

an item which an officer of the authority reasonably suspects may disclose (by
means of testing or otherwise) the commission of an offence under  section 2
or  3 ,

1.2.b

an item which an officer of the authority reasonably suspects is liable to
forfeiture under this Act, and

1.2.c

an item which an officer of the authority reasonably suspects may be required
as evidence in proceedings for an offence under  section 2  or  3 .

1.3

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may not exercise the
power under  paragraph 9  (powers in relation to documents) or  paragraph 11
(power of entry with warrant) for the purpose mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)
unless an officer of the authority reasonably suspects that an offence under
section 2  or  3  has been, or is being, committed.

2

An officer of a local weights and measures authority (or a person acting under
the direction of an officer) does not commit an offence under  section 2  or
3  if the supply or possession of the glue trap is in connection with the
officer’s duties under this Act.

3

In this schedule, “ glue trap ” has the meaning given in section 1(7).

##### Power to purchase glue trap

4

4.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may—

4.1.a

make a purchase of a glue trap, or

4.1.b

direct or enter into an agreement with a person to secure the acquisition or
supply of such a glue trap.

4.2

For the purpose of exercising the power under sub-paragraph (1), the officer
may—

4.2.a

at any reasonable time, enter premises to which the public has access (whether
or not the public has access at that time), and

4.2.b

inspect any product on the premises which the public may inspect.

4.3

The power of entry in sub-paragraph (2) may be exercised without first giving
notice or obtaining a warrant.

4.4

In this paragraph, “ premises ” includes any—

4.4.a

land or building,

4.4.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

4.4.c

tent or moveable structure,

except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling.

##### Power to observe carrying on of business etc.

5

5.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may enter premises to
which the public has access in order to observe the carrying on of a business
on those premises.

5.2

The power under sub-paragraph (1) may be exercised at any reasonable time
(whether or not the public has access at that time).

5.3

The power of entry under sub-paragraph (1) may be exercised without first
giving notice or obtaining a warrant.

5.4

In this paragraph, “ premises ” includes any—

5.4.a

land or building,

5.4.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

5.4.c

tent or moveable structure,

except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling.

##### Power to enter premises without warrant

6

6.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may enter premises at any
reasonable time.

6.2

In the case of a routine inspection, the power of entry in sub-paragraph (1)
may only be exercised if a notice has been given to the occupier of the
premises in accordance with the requirements in sub-paragraph (3), unless sub-
paragraph (4) applies.

6.3

Those requirements are that—

6.3.a

the notice is in writing and is given by the officer,

6.3.b

the notice sets out why the entry is necessary and indicates the nature of the
offence under  section 27  (offence of obstructing officer of local weights
and measures authority), and

6.3.c

there are at least two working days between the date of receipt of the notice
and the date of entry.

6.4

A notice need not be given if the occupier has waived the requirement to give
notice.

6.5

In this paragraph “ routine inspection ” means an exercise of the power under
sub-paragraph (1) other than where—

6.5.a

the power is exercised by an officer who reasonably suspects that an offence
has been, or is being, committed under  section 2  or  3 , or

6.5.b

the officer reasonably considers that to give notice in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2) would defeat the purpose of the entry.

6.6

If an officer enters premises under sub-paragraph (1) that are occupied,
otherwise than in the course of a routine inspection, the officer must provide
to an occupier a document that—

6.6.a

sets out why the entry is necessary, and

6.6.b

indicates the nature of the offence under  section 27 .

6.7

If an officer enters premises under sub-paragraph (1) that are occupied, the
officer must produce evidence of the officer’s identity and authority to an
occupier.

6.8

An officer need not comply with sub-paragraph (6) or (7) if it is not
reasonably practicable to do so.

6.9

Proceedings resulting from the exercise of the power under sub-paragraph (1)
are not invalid merely because of a failure to comply with sub-paragraph (6)
or (7).

6.10

An officer entering premises under sub-paragraph (1) may be accompanied by
such persons, and may take onto the premises such equipment, as the officer
considers necessary.

6.11

In this paragraph—

      “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person an officer of a
weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the occupier of the
premises,           “ premises ” includes any—         land or building,
vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,           tent or moveable
structure,         except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as a
private dwelling,           “ working day ” means any day other than—
Saturday or Sunday,           Christmas Day or Good Friday, or           a day
which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in
Scotland.

##### Power to inspect and test glue trap

7

7.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may—

7.1.a

inspect a glue trap or an item suspected to be a glue trap on the premises,

7.1.b

arrange for a glue trap or an item suspected to be a glue trap to be tested
(and may seize and retain the item under  paragraph 8 ).

7.2

Inspection and testing under this paragraph may carried out only for the
purposes of determining whether or not an item is a glue trap.

##### Power to seize and retain items

8

8.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may seize and retain an
item other than a document (for which see  paragraph 9 ).

8.2

An officer seizing an item under this paragraph from premises which are
occupied must produce evidence of the officer’s identity and authority to an
occupier of the premises before seizing it.

8.3

The officer need not comply with sub-paragraph (2) if it is not reasonably
practicable to do so.

8.4

An officer seizing an item under this paragraph must take reasonable steps to—

8.4.a

inform the person from whom it is seized that it has been seized, and

8.4.b

provide that person with a written record of what has been seized.

8.5

An item seized under this paragraph (except an item seized for the purpose in
paragraph 1 (2) (b) ) may not be detained—

8.5.a

for a period of more than 3 months beginning with the day on which it was
seized, or

8.5.b

where the item is reasonably required to be retained for a longer period by
the officer for a purpose for which it was seized, for longer than it is
required for that purpose.

##### Powers in relation to documents

9

9.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may, at any reasonable
time—

9.1.a

require a person who is, or is suspected of, offering to supply glue traps to
the public in the course of a business (“the trader”), an employee of the
trader or any other person acting on behalf of the trader, to produce any
document relating to the trader’s business to which the trader, employee or
other person has access,

9.1.b

take copies of, or copies of any entry in, any such document,

9.1.c

seize and retain any such document which the officer reasonably suspects may
be required as evidence.

9.2

The powers in sub-paragraph (1) include power to require the trader, employee
or other person to give an explanation of the document.

9.3

Where a document required to be produced under sub-paragraph (1) contains
information recorded electronically, the power under that sub-paragraph
includes power to require the production of a copy of the document in a form
in which it can easily be taken away and in which it is visible and legible.

9.4

This paragraph does not permit an officer to require a person to create a
document other than as described in sub-paragraph (3).

9.5

An officer seizing a document under this paragraph from premises which are
occupied must produce evidence of the officer’s identity and authority to an
occupier of the premises before seizing it.

9.6

The officer need not comply with sub-paragraph (5) if it is not reasonably
practicable to do so.

9.7

An officer seizing a document under this paragraph must take reasonable steps
to—

9.7.a

inform the person from whom it is seized that it has been seized, and

9.7.b

provide that person with a written record of what has been seized.

9.8

This paragraph does not permit an officer to require a person to produce or
seize any document which the person would be entitled to refuse to produce in
proceedings in the Court of Session on the grounds of confidentiality of
communications.

9.9

In sub-paragraph (8), “ communications ” means—

9.9.a

communications between a professional legal adviser and the adviser’s client,
or

9.9.b

communications made in connection with or in contemplation of legal
proceedings or for the purposes of those proceedings.

9.10

In this paragraph, “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person an
officer of a weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the
occupier of the premises.

##### Power to break open container etc.

10

10.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may, for the purpose of
exercising the powers under  paragraph 7 ,  8  or  9 , require a person with
authority to do so to—

10.1.a

break open any container, or

10.1.b

access any electronic device in which information may be stored or from which
it may be accessed.

10.2

Where a requirement under sub-paragraph (1) has not been complied with, the
officer may, for the purpose of exercising any of the powers in  paragraph 9 —

10.2.a

break open the container, or

10.2.b

access the electronic device.

10.3

Sub-paragraph (1) or (2) applies if and to the extent that the exercise of the
power under that sub-paragraph is reasonably necessary for the purposes for
which that power may be exercised.

10.4

In this paragraph, “ container ” means anything in which an item or document
may be stored.

##### Power of entry with warrant

11

11.1

A sheriff may grant a warrant under this paragraph authorising an officer of a
local weights and measures authority to enter premises if the sheriff is
satisfied, by evidence on oath, that—

11.1.a

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—

11.1.a.i

that an offence under  section 2  or  3  has been, or is being, committed at
the premises, or

11.1.a.ii

that there is an item or document on the premises that the officer has the
power to inspect or require to be produced, and

11.1.b

one of the following conditions is met—

11.1.b.i

access to the premises has been or is likely to be refused and notice of the
officer’s intention to apply for a warrant under this paragraph has been given
to the occupier of the premises,

11.1.b.ii

it is likely that items or documents on the premises would be concealed or
interfered with if notice of entry on the premises were given to the occupier
of the premises, or

11.1.b.iii

the premises are unoccupied or the occupier of the premises is absent and it
might defeat the purpose of the entry to wait for the occupier’s return.

11.2

A warrant granted under this paragraph remains in force for a period of 28
days beginning with the day on which it was granted.

11.3

An officer may be accompanied by such persons, and may take onto the premises
such equipment, as the officer considers necessary.

11.4

A warrant granted under this paragraph may authorise an officer to—

11.4.a

enter the premises by force if necessary,

11.4.b

exercise the powers in  paragraph 7 ,  8 ,  9  or  10 .

11.5

If the premises are occupied when the officer enters them, the officer must
produce the warrant for inspection to an occupier of the premises.

11.6

Sub-paragraph (7) applies if the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is
temporarily absent.

11.7

On leaving the premises, the officer must—

11.7.a

leave a notice on the premises stating that the premises have been entered
under a warrant under this paragraph, and

11.7.b

leave the premises as effectively secured as the officer found them.

11.8

In this paragraph—

      “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person an officer of a
weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the occupier of the
premises,           “ premises ” includes any—         land or building,
vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,           tent or moveable
structure,         (whether or not the premises are used wholly or mainly as a
private dwelling).

##### Power to require assistance from person on premises

12

If an officer of a local weights and measures authority has entered premises
under  paragraph 6 (1)  or under a warrant under  paragraph 11 , the officer
may require any person on the premises to provide such assistance or
information as the officer reasonably considers necessary.

##### Access to seized items and documents

13

13.1

This paragraph applies where a thing seized by an officer of a local weights
and measures authority under this schedule is retained by the authority.

13.2

If a request for permission to be granted access to that thing is made to the
local weights and measures authority by a person who had custody or control of
it immediately before it was seized, the authority must allow that person
access to it under the supervision of an officer of the authority.

13.3

If a request for a photograph or copy of that thing is made to the local
weights and measures authority by a person who had custody or control of it
immediately before it was seized, the authority must—

13.3.a

allow that person access to it under the supervision of an officer of the
authority for the purpose of photographing or copying it, or

13.3.b

photograph or copy it, or cause it to be photographed or copied.

13.4

Where anything is photographed or copied under sub-paragraph (3), the
photograph or copy must be supplied to the person who made the request within
a reasonable time from the making of the request.

13.5

This paragraph does not require access to be granted to, or a photograph or
copy to be supplied of, a thing if the local weights and measures authority
has reasonable grounds for believing that to do so would prejudice the
investigation for the purposes of which it was seized.

13.6

A local weights and measures authority may recover the reasonable costs of
complying with a request under this paragraph from the person by whom or on
whose behalf it was made.

13.7

References in this paragraph to a person who had custody or control of a thing
immediately before it was seized include a representative of such a person.

##### Notice of testing of item

14

14.1

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply where—

14.1.a

a glue trap purchased (or acquired under direction or by agreement) by an
officer of a local weights and measures authority under  paragraph 4  is
submitted to a test and as a result proceedings are brought for an offence
under  section 2  or  3 , or

14.1.b

a glue trap or item seized by an officer of a local weights and measures
authority under  paragraph 8  is submitted to a test.

14.2

The local weights and measures must inform the relevant person of the results
of the test.

14.3

The local weights and measures authority must allow a relevant person to have
the glue trap or item tested if it is reasonably practicable to do so.

14.4

In sub-paragraph (2), “ relevant person ” means the person from whom the glue
trap or item was purchased or seized.

14.5

In sub-paragraph (3), “ relevant person ” means—

14.5.a

in a case within sub-paragraph (1)(a), a person who is a party to the
proceedings, or

14.5.b

in any other case, a person referred to in sub-paragraph (4).

##### Application for release of item or document

15

15.1

This paragraph applies where an item or document is being retained as the
result of the exercise of a power under this schedule.

15.2

A person with an interest in the item or document may apply to the sheriff for
an order requiring it to be released to that or another person.

15.3

The sheriff may make an order requiring an item or document to be released
only if satisfied that condition A or B is met.

15.4

Condition A is that—

15.4.a

no proceedings have been brought for an offence as the result of the
investigation in the course of which the item or document was seized, and

15.4.b

the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the item or document
was seized has expired.

15.5

Condition B is that—

15.5.a

proceedings of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (4)(a) have been brought,
and

15.5.b

those proceedings have been concluded without the item or document being
forfeited.

##### Compensation

16

16.1

This paragraph applies where an officer of a local weights and measures
authority has seized and retained an item under this schedule for a purpose
within  paragraph 1 (2) (a) .

16.2

The local weights and measures authority must pay compensation to any person
with an interest in the item in respect of any loss or damage caused by the
seizure and retention if—

16.2.a

the item has not disclosed an offence under  section 2  or  3 , and

16.2.b

the power to seize and retain the item was not exercised as a result of any
neglect or default of the person seeking the compensation.

16.3

Any dispute about the right to or amount of any compensation payable under
this paragraph is to be determined by a single arbitrator appointed by the
parties or, if there is no agreement between the parties as to that
appointment, by the sheriff.

