Title: Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure Amendment) (Miscellaneous) 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: This Act of Sederunt amends the Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure) 2016 (“the 2016 Rules”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/211

## Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure Amendment) (Miscellaneous) 2022

Sheriff Court

Made 15th June 2022

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 16th June 2022

Coming into force 28th November 2022

In accordance with section 4 of the Scottish Civil Justice Council and
Criminal Legal Assistance Act 2013 , the Court of Session has approved draft
rules submitted to it by the Scottish Civil Justice Council with such
modifications as it thinks appropriate. The Court of Session therefore makes
this Act of Sederunt under the powers conferred by section 104(1) of the
Courts Reform (Scotland) Act 2014  and all other powers enabling it to do so.

### Citation and commencement, etc.

1

1.1

This Act of Sederunt may be cited as the Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure
Amendment) (Miscellaneous) 2022.

1.2

It comes into force on   31st May 2023 .

1.3

A certified copy is to be inserted in the Books of Sederunt.

### Amendment of the Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure) 2016

2

2.1

The Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure) 2016  is amended in accordance with
this paragraph.

2.2

In Schedule 1 (Simple Procedure Rules) —

2.2.a

after rule 1.8(11) , insert—

2.2.a.11A

If a response, or part of a response, obviously has no real prospect of
success, the sheriff may decide the case, or that part of it, at any time.

;

2.2.b

omit rule 3.3(2) and (3);

2.2.c

omit rule 3.4;

2.2.d

omit rule 3.5;

2.2.e

for rule 3.7(2) , substitute—

2.2.e.2

If the Claim Form has been completed on paper and indicates that the claimant
would like the sheriff clerk to formally serve the Claim Form then two copies
must be sent to the court.

;

2.2.f

in rule 3.13(2) and (3), for “a Change of Timetable Application” substitute
“an Additional Orders Application (see Part 9)” ;

2.2.g

omit rule 4.4(3) and (4);

2.2.h

in rule 5.6 —

2.2.h.i

in paragraph (2), for “must” substitute  “may” ;

2.2.h.ii

in paragraph (3), for “At a time to pay hearing, the sheriff” substitute  “The
sheriff” ;

2.2.i

in rule 6.11—

2.2.i.i

in paragraph (2), after “Claim Form” insert  “by a next-day postal service
which records delivery” ;

2.2.i.ii

omit paragraph (3)(b);

2.2.j

in rule 7.2(2) —

2.2.j.i

omit “do one of three things”;

2.2.j.ii

in sub-paragraph (c), after “order the claimant” insert  “or the parties” ;

2.2.k

after rule 7.5(4) , insert—

2.2.k.5

If the sheriff makes an order under paragraph (4), the sheriff will issue
written orders within two weeks of the final date on which the additional
respondent is required to lodge a response.

2.2.k.6

The sheriff clerk may formally serve the Claim Form and Response Form by a
next-day postal service which records delivery if—

2.2.k.6.a

the respondent is not a company, limited liability partnership or partnership,
and

2.2.k.6.b

the respondent is not legally represented.

;

2.2.l

in rule 7.6(1)—

2.2.l.i

omit “do any of 5 things”;

2.2.l.ii

in sub-paragraph (d), after “doing so,” insert  “and give the parties an
opportunity to object to a decision being made without a hearing” ;

2.2.l.iii

in sub-paragraph (e), for “rule 1.8(11), (12) and (13)” substitute  “rule
1.8(11), (11A), (12) or (13)” ;

2.2.m

in rule 8.3(2), omit “do one of three things”;

2.2.n

after rule 8.4(2), insert—

2.2.n.3

An order made under paragraph (1) must be formally served by the sheriff clerk
on the party given the order unless the sheriff directs otherwise.

;

2.2.o

for Part 9 (applications) , substitute—

PART 9: Additional Orders Applications 9.1 What is this Part about? (1) This
Part is about applications which the parties may make to the court to ask for
things to be done in a case (additional orders to those mentioned in Part 8).
9.2 How do you ask for orders to be made? (1) A party may apply for an order
by: (a) asking the sheriff to make an order in person at a case management
discussion or hearing, or (b) completing an Additional Orders Application and
sending it to the court (see rule 9.3). 9.3 How do you complete an Additional
Orders Application? (1) A party may apply for an order by sending the other
party an Additional Orders Application unless it is not possible to send it to
the other party. (2) That party must, at the same time, send the court a copy
of the Additional Orders Application with evidence that it was sent to the
other party (for example, a postal receipt or copy of an email) or, if it is
not possible to send it to the other party, with an explanation of why it is
not possible to send it to the other party. (3) The Additional Orders
Application must set out: (a) the order the party wants the sheriff to make,
and (b) why the party thinks the sheriff should make the orders. 9.4 How do
you object to an Additional Orders Application? (1) If the party who has been
sent the Additional Orders Application objects to the order requested, that
party must do two things: (a) set out the objection in the Additional Orders
Application, and (b) send the Additional Orders Application to the court and
the other party within 10 days of the Additional Orders Application being
sent. 9.5 What will the court do with an Additional Orders Application? (1)
The sheriff will consider the Additional Orders Application and any objection
to it. (2) The sheriff may: (a) grant the Additional Orders Application, or
part of it, and give written orders to the parties, (b) refuse the Additional
Orders Application, and make no orders, or (c) order the parties to appear at
a discussion in court, where the sheriff will consider whether to make any
orders. Pausing cases 9.6 What happens if a case is paused? (1) If a case is
paused, then any discussions or hearings in the case are cancelled and the
case will not progress until it is restarted. 9.7 What can the court do with a
paused case? (1) The sheriff clerk must present to the sheriff a case which
has been paused for 6 months or more. (2) The sheriff may then formally serve
on the parties written orders which provide that unless a party does something
or takes a step, then the sheriff may dismiss the claim. (3) An order made
under paragraph (2) must be formally served by the sheriff clerk on the party
given the order unless the sheriff directs otherwise. (4) If that party does
not do the thing or take the step ordered, the sheriff may make a decision in
the case, including— (a) dismissing the claim or part of the claim, (b)
awarding the claimant some or all of what was asked for in the claim form.
Miscellaneous applications 9.8 How can a person become an additional
respondent in a case? (1) A person who is not a respondent may apply to become
a respondent in a case by sending an Additional Orders Application to the
court and all parties (see rule 9.3). (2) The Additional Orders Application
must set out why that person has an interest in becoming a respondent. (3) The
Additional Orders Application must have attached to it a draft Response Form.
(4) The sheriff may grant the application without a discussion in court, but
must order a discussion if considering refusing the application. (5) If
ordering a discussion in court, the sheriff must also order the person wishing
to become a respondent to formally serve a copy of the notice of the
discussion on all of the parties. (6) If granting the application, the sheriff
must give orders allowing the additional respondent to participate in the case
as a respondent. (7) The sheriff clerk may formally serve the copy of the
notice of the discussion if the person wishing to become a respondent is: (a)
not a company, limited liability partnership or partnership, and (b) is not
legally represented. 9.9 What can happen if a party dies or becomes legally
incapacitated? (1) If a party dies or becomes legally incapacitated before a
sheriff decides a case, then a person who asserts a right to represent that
party or that party’s estate may apply to represent that party by sending an
Additional Orders Application to the court (see rule 9.3). (2) The Additional
Orders Application must set out why that person should be allowed to represent
that party or that party’s estate.

;

2.2.p

for rule 10.2(3), substitute—

2.2.p.3

The parties must at the same time as sending each other and the court a List
of Evidence Form—

2.2.p.3.a

lodge the documents and other evidence with the court, and

2.2.p.3.b

send copies of the documents and, if possible, other evidence to the other
parties.

;

2.2.q

in rule 10.6—

2.2.q.i

in paragraph (2)—

2.2.q.i.aa

for “a Recovery of Documents Application” substitute  “an Additional Orders
Application” ;

2.2.q.i.bb

after “the other party” insert  “(see Part 9)” ;

2.2.q.ii

for paragraph (3), substitute—

2.2.q.ii.3

That Additional Orders Application must set out—

2.2.q.ii.3.a

the documents the party would like to recover,

2.2.q.ii.3.b

who has the documents, and

2.2.q.ii.3.c

why the court should make the order to recover the documents.

;

2.2.q.iii

in paragraph (4)—

2.2.q.iii.aa

for “Recovery of Documents Application” substitute  “Additional Orders
Application” ;

2.2.q.iii.bb

omit “do one of 4 things”;

2.2.r

in rule 10.8—

2.2.r.i

for “Application to Open Confidential Document”, where it occurs, substitute
“Additional Orders Application (see Part 9)” ;

2.2.r.ii

in paragraph (5), omit “do one of three things,”;

2.2.s

in rule 10.9 —

2.2.s.i

in paragraph (1)—

2.2.s.i.aa

for “a Special Recovery of Documents Application” substitute  “an Additional
Orders Application” ; and

2.2.s.i.bb

at the end add  “(see Part 9)” ;

2.2.s.ii

omit paragraphs (2) and (3);

2.2.t

in rule 10.11—

2.2.t.i

for “Application to Open Confidential Document”, where it occurs, substitute
“Additional Orders Application (see Part 9)” ;

2.2.t.ii

in paragraph (5), omit “do one of three things”;

2.2.u

in rule 11.7(3), omit “do one of 5 things”;

2.2.v

in rule 13.3(4), omit “before it is sent to a party”;

2.2.w

after rule 13.3(4), insert—

2.2.w.5

The party in possession of a Decision Form which is to be corrected must
return that original Decision Form to the court before the corrected Decision
Form is sent to that party.

2.2.w.6

The Decision Form must be sent to all parties to the action.

;

2.2.x

for rule 13.5(1) , substitute—

2.2.x.1

A party may apply to have a decision of the sheriff recalled where the sheriff
either dismissed a claim in that party’s absence or made a decision in that
party’s absence.

;

2.2.y

in rule 14.4(4), for “may” substitute  “must” ;

2.2.z

in rule 15.5 —

2.2.z.i

in paragraph (4), omit “do one of three things”;

2.2.z.ii

after paragraph (4), insert—

2.2.z.ii.5

A copy of the alternative Decision Form is to be sent to all parties.

;

2.2.aa

after rule 16.4(4), insert—

2.2.aa.4A

The President of the Sheriff Appeal Court may vary the period mentioned in
paragraph (4).

;

2.2.bb

in rules 17.9(3), 17.10(4) and 17.12(3), omit “do one of three things”;

2.2.cc

in rule 18.2 —

2.2.cc.i

for paragraph (1), substitute—

2.2.cc.i.1

When these Rules require a document to be formally served, the first attempt
must be by—

2.2.cc.i.1.a

a next-day postal service which records delivery, or

2.2.cc.i.1.b

email, if the person to be formally served with a document has indicated a
willingness to accept service by email.

;

2.2.cc.ii

after paragraph (1), insert—

2.2.cc.ii.1A

Willingness to accept email service of a document may be expressed
specifically to the claimant or generally (for example on a website).

;

2.2.cc.iii

in paragraph (2)(c), before “the sheriff clerk” insert  “in respect of next-
day postal service which records delivery only,” ;

2.2.cc.iv

in paragraph (3)—

2.2.cc.iv.aa

for “The” substitute  “An” ;

2.2.cc.iv.bb

after “ RETURNED ” insert  “ IMMEDIATELY ” ;

2.2.cc.v

for paragraph (4), substitute—

2.2.cc.v.4

After formally serving a document, a Confirmation of Formal Service must be
completed and any evidence of sending or, in the case of email, proof of
receipt attached to it (for example, a postal receipt or a copy of an email
acknowledgement).

2.2.cc.v.4A

Where service is by email, the period of notice runs from the beginning of the
day after the date of email service.

;

2.2.dd

in rules 19.3(7), 19.4(11), 19.5(11) and 19.7(9), after “ RETURNED ” insert  “
IMMEDIATELY ” ;

2.2.ee

in rule 20.3(3), omit “do one of 3 things”;

2.2.ff

in rule 20.6, for “Incidental Orders Application”, where it occurs, substitute
“Additional Orders Application (see Part 9)” .

2.3

In Schedule 2 (forms)—

2.3.a

for Form 3A , substitute the Form 3A in schedule 1 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.b

omit Form 3B ;

2.3.c

omit Form 3C ;

2.3.d

omit Form 3E;

2.3.e

for Form 4A , substitute the Form 4A in schedule 2 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.f

for Form 5B , substitute the Form 5B in schedule 3 of the Act of Sederunt;

2.3.g

for Form 7A , substitute the Form 7A in schedule 4 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.h

for Form 9A , substitute the Form 9A (Additional Orders Application) in
schedule 5 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.i

omit Forms 9B to 9G;

2.3.j

for Form 10A, substitute the Form 10A in schedule 6 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.k

omit Forms10B to 10D ;

2.3.l

for Form 11A, substitute the Form 11A in schedule 7 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.m

for Form 11B , substitute the Form 11B in schedule 8 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.3.n

for Form 13A , substitute the Form 13A in schedule 9 of this Act of Sederunt;

2.4

In Schedule 3 (standard orders) —

2.4.a

in standard order SO1—

2.4.a.i

for “the parties must contact the court immediately” substitute  “the claimant
must send an Additional Orders Application to the court immediately telling
the court what should happen next in the case (for example, to cancel the case
management discussion and dismiss the case)” ;

2.4.a.ii

omit “before ordering a formal court hearing”;

2.4.a.iii

for “the sheriff will give” substitute  “the sheriff may give” ;

2.4.b

in standard order SO2, for “the parties must contact the court immediately”
substitute  “the claimant must send an Additional Orders Application to the
court immediately telling the court what should happen next in the case (for
example, to cancel the hearing and dismiss the case)” ;

2.4.c

for standard order SO3, substitute the standard order SO3 in schedule 10 of
this Act of Sederunt;

2.4.d

omit standard order SO4;

2.4.e

in standard order SO6—

2.4.e.i

after “ Possibility of dismissal ” insert  “[ Possibility of orders sought
being granted ]” ;

2.4.e.ii

after “warning.” insert  “[The respondent is  warned  that unless these steps
are taken the sheriff will  grant  some or all of the orders sought.]” ;

2.4.e.iii

omit “If the step[s] listed above are not taken then the sheriff  dismisses
the claim against the respondent.”;

2.4.f

in standard order SO7—

2.4.f.i

for “Part 8” substitute  “Parts 8 and 9” ;

2.4.f.ii

for “Application to Pause”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “Additional
Orders Application to pause the case” ;

2.4.f.iii

for “Application to Restart Form to the court and to the other party”
substitute  “Additional Orders Application to the court and the other party
asking for the case to be restarted” ;

2.4.f.iv

after “all upcoming hearings”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
discussions” ;

2.4.g

in standard order SO8—

2.4.g.i

after “Part 8” insert  “and Part 9” ;

2.4.g.ii

for “Application to Restart”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“Additional Orders Application to restart a paused case” ;

2.4.h

in standard order SO9, for “Part 8” substitute  “Parts 8 and 9” ;

2.4.i

in standard order SO10—

2.4.i.i

for “Part 8” substitute  “Parts 8 and 9” ;

2.4.i.ii

for “a Recovery of Documents Application” substitute  “an Additional Orders
Application to recover documents” ;

2.4.i.iii

for “ Refusal of Recovery of Documents Application ” substitute  “ Refusal of
Additional Orders Application to recover documents ” ;

2.4.j

after standard order SO13, insert standard order SO14 in schedule 11 of this
Act of Sederunt.

### Saving

3

The amendments made by paragraph 2 are of no effect in relation to proceedings
commenced before the date on which this Act of Sederunt comes into force.

CJM SUTHERLAND Lord President I.P.D. Edinburgh

Paragraph 2(3)(a)

















Paragraph 2(3)(e)















Paragraph 2(3)(f)





Paragraph 2(3)(g)





Paragraph 2(3)(h)









Paragraph 2(3)(j)









Paragraph 2(3)(l)









Paragraph 2(3)(m)







Paragraph 2(3)(n)







Paragraph 2(4)(c)





Paragraph 2(4)(j)



## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Act of Sederunt)

This Act of Sederunt amends the Act of Sederunt (Simple Procedure) 2016 (“ the
2016 Rules ”).

Paragraph 2(2) makes various changes to Schedule 1 (Simple Procedure Rules) of
the 2016 Rules in order to streamline the rules.

Paragraph 2(3) omits or substitutes various forms in Schedule 2 (Forms) of the
2016 Rules.

Paragraph 2(4) omits or substitutes various forms in Schedule 3 (Standard
Orders) of the 2016 Rules. It also adds a new form SO14 to Schedule 3.

Paragraph 3 is a saving provision, the effect of which is that certain
amendments do not apply to a simple procedure case commenced before 28th
November 2022.

