Title: Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-01-29
Description: Amend the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985; and for connected purposes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/14

## Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by Her Majesty as follows:

### Interpretation

#### Interpretation

1

In this Act “ the 1985 Order ” means the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and
Amusements (Northern Ireland) Order 1985.

### Betting

#### Opening of licensed offices on Sunday and Good Friday

2

In Article 31(1) of the 1985 Order (days when licensed office not to open) for
“Sunday, Christmas Day or Good Friday” substitute  “Christmas Day” .

#### Sunday working in licensed office

3

3.1

Schedule 8A to the 1985 Order (rights of betting workers as regards Sunday
working) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 1 for sub-paragraph (2) substitute—

3.2.2

In this Schedule “ betting work ” means—

3.2.2.a

work at a track for a bookmaker on a day on which the bookmaker acts as such
at the track, being work which consists of or includes dealing with betting
transactions, and

3.2.2.b

work in a licensed office on a day on which the office is open for use for the
effecting of betting transactions.

.

3.3

In paragraph 1 in sub-paragraph (4) for the definition of “commencement date”
substitute—

      “ commencement date ” means—         in relation to a person who is a
betting worker by virtue of sub-paragraph (2)(a), the day on which Schedule 1
to the Betting and Gaming (Northern Ireland) Order 2004 comes into operation;
in relation to a person who is a betting worker by virtue of sub-paragraph
(2)(b), the day on which section 3 of the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and
Amusements (Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 comes into operation.

3.4

In paragraph 8(4), in the prescribed form, after the words “at the track”
insert  “or in a licensed office on a Sunday on which it is open for business”
.

3.5

In Article 53B of the 1985 Order (Sunday observance) at the end insert  “or
having effected a betting transaction on a non-sporting event at a licensed
office which is open on a Sunday.” .

#### Pool betting

4

In Article 44 of the 1985 Order (restriction of pool betting), in paragraph
(2) for “paragraph (3)” substitute  “paragraphs (3) and (3A)”  and after
paragraph (3) insert—

4.3A

If the conditions mentioned in paragraph (3B) are satisfied, paragraph (2)
does not apply to a licensed bookmaker who, on licensed premises, carries on a
pool betting business which is linked to such a business carried on by means
of a totalisator at a licensed track.

4.3B

The conditions are that—

4.3B.a

a person placing a bet at the licensed premises by way of the pool betting
business does so on the same terms and conditions as if the bet were placed by
means of the totalisator at the licensed track concerned, and

4.3B.b

before receiving a bet by way of the pool betting system, the licensed
bookmaker displays at the licensed premises a notice—

4.3B.b.i

indicating the name of the licensed track concerned; and

4.3B.b.ii

containing information corresponding to that which the operator of that track
is required to post at the track in accordance with paragraph 3 of Schedule 8.

.

### Bingo clubs

#### Persons who may participate in bingo at bingo club

5

In Article 75 of the 1985 Order (persons who may participate in bingo) the
following provisions are repealed—

5.a

in paragraph (3)(a) the words “who, at the time when he begins to take part in
the bingo, is eligible to take part in it”;

5.b

in paragraph (3)(b) the words “and who, at the time when the guest begins to
take part in the bingo, is eligible to take part in it”;

5.c

paragraph (4).

#### Days when bingo and use of gaming machines permitted on bingo club premises

6⁠

6⁠.1

In Article 76(7) of the 1985 Order (days when bingo may not take place on
bingo club premises) for “Sunday, Christmas Day or Good Friday” substitute
“Christmas Day” .

6⁠.2

In Article 108(3) of the 1985 Order (days when gaming machines may not be made
available for gaming on bingo club premises) for “Sunday, Christmas Day or
Good Friday” substitute  “Christmas Day” .

### Gaming machines

#### Offence of inviting, etc. person under 18 to play gaming machine

7

7.1

After Article 124 of the 1985 Order insert—

########## Prohibition on inviting, etc. person under 18 to play gaming machine

7.1.124A⁠

7.1.124A⁠.1

Any person who invites, causes or permits an individual under the age of 18 to
play a gaming machine, other than a lower limit gaming machine, is guilty of
an offence.

7.1.124A⁠.2

In any proceedings against a person for an offence under paragraph (1), it is
a defence to prove that there was good reason to believe that the person under
the age of 18 had attained that age.

7.1.124A⁠.3

In paragraph (1) a “ lower limit gaming machine ” means a gaming machine—

7.1.124A⁠.3.a

which is installed on premises in respect of which there is in force an
amusement permit; and

7.1.124A⁠.3.b

in respect of which the condition in Article 108(7) is observed.

.

7.2

In Schedule 18 to the 1985 Order (Table of offences with mode of prosecution
and punishments) after the entry relating to Article 124(4) insert the
following entry—

    124A(1). Inviting, etc. person under 18 to play gaming machine Summary.
Level 5 or imprisonment for 6 months or both.

.

#### Gaming machines: charges and prize limits

8

8.1

Article 108 of the 1985 Order (use of gaming machines) is amended in
accordance with subsections (2) to (7).

8.2

In paragraph (6) for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

8.2.b

in respect of a gaming machine where the condition in paragraph (8)(a)
applies, £0.30;

8.2.c

in respect of a gaming machine where the condition in paragraph (8)(b)
applies, £0.30;

8.2.d

in respect of a gaming machine where the condition in paragraph (8)(c)
applies, £0.30;

8.2.e

in respect of a gaming machine where the condition in paragraph (8)(d)
applies, £0.30.

.

8.3

In paragraph (7) for the words from the beginning to “gaming machine”
substitute  “In respect of any one game played by means of a gaming machine
installed on premises such as are mentioned in paragraph (1)(c) or (d)” .

8.4

Omit paragraph (7A).

8.5

For paragraph (8) substitute—

8.5.8

In respect of any one game played by means of a gaming machine installed on
any other premises mentioned in paragraph (1), no player or person claiming
under a player shall receive, or shall be entitled to receive, any article,
benefit or advantage other than a money prize delivered by the machine of an
amount not exceeding—

8.5.8.a

in the case of a machine installed on bingo club premises, £25;

8.5.8.b

in the case of a machine installed on licensed premises, £25;

8.5.8.c

in the case of a machine installed on a licensed office, £25;

8.5.8.d

in the case of a machine installed on premises in respect of which there is in
force an amusement permit expressed to be granted for the purposes of
paragraph (1)(ca), £25.

.

8.6

Omit paragraph (8A).

8.7

In paragraph (9)(a) for the words from “ not exceeding ” (where they first
occur) to the end substitute  “not exceeding—

8.7.i

in relation to a machine to which paragraph (7) applies, £8; or

8.7.ii

in relation to a machine to which a sub-paragraph of paragraph (8) applies,
the amount specified in that sub-paragraph, delivered by the machine; and

.

8.8

In Articles 111(6A)(b)(i) and 115(7A)(b)(i) of the 1985 Order for “Article
108(8)” substitute  “Article 108(8)(d)” .

### Lotteries

#### Arrangements not requiring persons to pay to participate

9

9.1

Renumber Article 131 of the 1985 Order (illegality of lotteries) as paragraph
(1) of that Article and after that paragraph insert—

9.1.2

For the purposes of this Part an arrangement is not a lottery unless persons
are required to pay to participate in the arrangement; and Schedule 15A makes
provision about when an arrangement is or is not to be treated for those
purposes as requiring persons to pay to participate.

.

9.2

After Schedule 15 to the 1985 Order insert the Schedule set out in the
Schedule to this Act.

#### Rules for societies’ lotteries

10

In Article 137 of the 1985 Order (rules for societies’ lotteries)—

10.a

in paragraph (5) (price limit on tickets) for “£1” substitute  “£100” ;

10.b

in paragraph (14) (limit on amount which may be appropriated for expenses) for
sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

10.b.b

20 per cent. of the whole proceeds of the lottery.

;

10.c

paragraph (15) is repealed.

### Miscellaneous amendments of 1985 Order

#### Qualifications by age, residence or corporate status for licences, certificates and permits

11

11.1

In the following provisions of the 1985 Order—

11.1.a

Article 7(5)(a) (bookmaker’s licences),

11.1.b

Article 61(5)(a) (bingo club licences),

11.1.c

Article 84(4)(a) (gaming machine certificates and gaming machine permits), and

11.1.d

Article 141(4)(a) (lottery certificates),

for “ 21 ” (the minimum age restriction) substitute  “18” .

11.2

The following provisions of the 1985 Order (which impose restrictions or
prohibitions by reference to residence) are repealed—

11.2.a

Article 7(5)(b) and (c) and (7) (bookmaker’s licences),

11.2.b

Article 61(5)(b) and (c) (bingo club licences),

11.2.c

Article 84(4)(b) and (c) (gaming machine certificates and gaming machine
permits), and

11.2.d

Article 141(4)(b) and (c) (lottery certificates).

11.3

The following provisions of the 1985 Order (which restrict or prevent certain
corporate bodies from holding licences, certificates or permits) are repealed—

11.3.a

Article 7(5)(d) and (6) (bookmaker’s licences),

11.3.b

Article 61(5)(d) and (6) (bingo club licences),

11.3.c

Article 84(4)(d) and (5) (gaming machine certificates and gaming machine
permits), and

11.3.d

Article 141(4)(d) and (5) (lottery certificates).

11.4

In Article 109(2) of the 1985 Order (which limits the grant of amusement
permits to certain corporate bodies) for “a company registered under the
Companies Act 2006 in Northern Ireland” substitute  “a body corporate” .

11.5

In Article 155(2) of the 1985 Order (which limits the grant of pleasure
permits to certain corporate bodies) for “a company registered under the
Companies Act 2006 in Northern Ireland” substitute  “a body corporate” .

#### Prize competitions not requiring persons to pay to participate

12

12.1

Article 168 of the 1985 Order (prize competitions) is amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph (1) for “paragraph (2)” substitute  “paragraphs (2) and (2A)” .

12.3

After paragraph (2) insert—

12.3.2A

An arrangement is not a competition for the purposes of this Article unless
persons are required to pay to participate in the arrangement; and Schedule
15A makes provision about when an arrangement is or is not to be treated for
those purposes as requiring persons to pay to participate.

.

#### Cheating

13

For Article 169 of the 1985 Order (offence of cheating) substitute—

######## Cheating

13.169

13.169.1

A person who—

13.169.1.a

cheats at gambling, or

13.169.1.b

does anything for the purpose of enabling or assisting another person to cheat
at gambling,

is guilty of an offence.

13.169.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1) it is immaterial whether a person who
cheats—

13.169.2.a

improves his chances of winning anything, or

13.169.2.b

wins anything.

13.169.3

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1), cheating at gambling
may, in particular, consist of actual or attempted deception or interference
in connection with—

13.169.3.a

the process by which gambling is conducted, or

13.169.3.b

a game, sport, pastime or other event or process to which gambling relates.

13.169.4

In this Article “ gambling ” means gaming, betting or participating in a
lottery.

.

#### Enforceability of gambling contracts

14

14.1

The following provisions of the 1985 Order are repealed—

14.1.a

Article 170 (which voids contracts by way of gaming or wagering);

14.1.b

Article 171 (securities in connection with gaming or wagering deemed given for
an illegal consideration).

14.2

The fact that a contract relates to gambling does not prevent its enforcement.

14.3

Subsection (2) is without prejudice to any rule of law preventing the
enforcement of a contract on the grounds of unlawfulness (other than a rule
relating specifically to gambling).

14.4

The repeals in subsection (1) do not permit enforcement of a right which is
created or which arises from an agreement made before this section comes into
operation.

14.5

In this section “ gambling ” means gaming, betting or participating in a
lottery (within the meaning of the 1985 Order).”.

#### Industry levy

15

15.1

After Article 172 of the 1985 Order insert—

########## Industry levy

15.1.172A⁠

15.1.172A⁠.1

The Department may make regulations for, or in connection with, requiring
every person who intends to make an application to which this Article applies
to pay a levy to the Department.

15.1.172A⁠.2

This Article applies to an application—

15.1.172A⁠.2.a

for the grant or renewal of a bookmaker’s licence;

15.1.172A⁠.2.b

for the grant or renewal of a bookmaking office licence or to have the
provisional grant of a bookmaking office licence declared final;

15.1.172A⁠.2.c

for the grant or renewal of a bingo club licence or to have the provisional
grant of a bingo club licence declared final;

15.1.172A⁠.2.d

for the grant or renewal of a gaming machine certificate or permit;

15.1.172A⁠.2.e

for the grant or renewal of an amusement permit or to have the provisional
grant of an amusement permit declared final.

15.1.172A⁠.3

Regulations under paragraph (1) must make provision for the amount of the
levy, its payment and general administration and may, in particular—

15.1.172A⁠.3.a

make provision for the determination of the amount of the levy according to a
specified formula or in some other way;

15.1.172A⁠.3.b

make provision requiring the Department to issue a receipt in respect of
payment of the levy in relation to an application and for ensuring that the
application does not proceed unless it is accompanied by the relevant receipt;

15.1.172A⁠.3.c

make provision for the repayment of levy to an applicant whose application is
refused;

15.1.172A⁠.3.d

make such modifications of this Order as are necessary or expedient to give
full effect to the levy.

15.1.172A⁠.4

The proceeds of a levy are to be expended by the Department in providing
financial assistance for projects related to—

15.1.172A⁠.4.a

addiction to gambling; or

15.1.172A⁠.4.b

other forms of harm or exploitation associated with gambling.

15.1.172A⁠.5

Financial assistance under paragraph (4)—

15.1.172A⁠.5.a

may be provided by grants, loans or any other form of financial assistance;

15.1.172A⁠.5.b

may be made or given on terms or conditions (which may include terms and
conditions as to repayment with or without interest);

15.1.172A⁠.5.c

requires the consent of the Department of Finance.

15.1.172A⁠.6

Before making any regulations under this Article the Department must consult
such organisations as appear to the Department to represent the interests of—

15.1.172A⁠.6.a

persons who have suffered from, or been affected by, addiction to gambling or
other forms of harm or exploitation associated with gambling;

15.1.172A⁠.6.b

persons who have experience or knowledge of issues relating to such addiction,
harm or exploitation; and

15.1.172A⁠.6.c

the gambling industry in Northern Ireland.

15.1.172A⁠.7

In this Article “ gambling ” means betting, gaming or participating in a
lottery.

.

15.2

In Article 186 of the 1985 Order (orders and regulations)—

15.2.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

15.2.a.3A

No regulations may be made under Article 172A unless a draft of the
regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the
Assembly.

;

15.2.b

in paragraph (4) for “paragraph (3)” substitute  “paragraphs (3) and (3A)” .

#### Code of practice

16

16.1

After Article 180 of the 1985 Order insert—

########## Code of practice

########### Code of practice

16.1.180A⁠

16.1.180A⁠.1

The Department must issue one or more codes of practice about the manner in
which facilities for gambling are provided (whether by the holder of a
licence, permit or certificate under this Order or by another person).

16.1.180A⁠.2

In particular a code must describe arrangements that should be made by a
person providing facilities for gambling  to meet an expected duty of care to
those using the facilities to include, but not be limited to—

16.1.180A⁠.2.a

ensuring that gambling is conducted in a fair and open way,

16.1.180A⁠.2.b

protecting persons under the age of 18 and other vulnerable persons from being
harmed or exploited by gambling, and

16.1.180A⁠.2.c

making assistance available to persons who are or may be affected by problems
related to gambling.

16.1.180A⁠.3

A code may include provision about how facilities for gambling are advertised
or described.

16.1.180A⁠.4

A code may be revised or revoked by the Department.

16.1.180A⁠.5

A code, and any revision, must state when it comes into force.

16.1.180A⁠.6

The Department must publish a code and any revision in a manner which the
Department thinks likely to bring it to the attention of those whose
activities it concerns.

16.1.180A⁠.7

The Department may make different provision under this Article for different
cases or circumstances (whether or not by way of separate codes of practice).

16.1.180A⁠.8

A failure to comply with a provision of a code does not of itself make a
person liable to criminal or civil proceedings.

16.1.180A⁠.9

But a code—

16.1.180A⁠.9.a

is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceedings,

16.1.180A⁠.9.b

must be taken into account by a court or tribunal in any case in which it
appears to the court or tribunal to be relevant, and

16.1.180A⁠.9.c

must be taken into account by the Department, a court or a district council in
the exercise of a function under the 1985 Order.

16.1.180A⁠.10

Before issuing or revising a code under this Article the Department must
consult—

16.1.180A⁠.10.a

such organisations as appear to the Department to represent the interests of
the gambling industry in Northern Ireland,

16.1.180A⁠.10.b

persons who appear to the Department to have knowledge about social problems
relating to gambling,

16.1.180A⁠.10.c

in the case of a code including provision by virtue of paragraph (3), persons
who appear to the Department to have a relevant responsibility for regulating
the advertising industry,

16.1.180A⁠.10.d

persons who appear to the Department to represent district councils,

16.1.180A⁠.10.e

the Chief Constable, and

16.1.180A⁠.10.f

in such manner as the Department thinks appropriate, members of the public.

16.1.180A⁠.11

Serious, significant, continuing or multiple breaches of a code is a ground of
revocation or cancellation of a licence, registration or permit under Articles
27, 42, 92, 103 or 121.

16.1.180A⁠.12

In this Article “ gambling ” means betting, gaming or participating in a
lottery.

.

16.2

The 1985 Order is amended as follows—

16.2.a

in Article 27(1) (grounds for application for revocation of bookmakers’
licences) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

16.2.a.da

that the business carried on under the licence has been carried on in a manner
which involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a code
of practice in force under Article 180A; or

;

16.2.b

in Article 28(1) (grounds for application for revocation of bookmaking office
licences) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

16.2.b.da

that the business carried on in the licensed office has been carried on in a
manner which involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a
code of practice in force under Article 180A; or

;

16.2.c

in Article 42(1) (grounds for revocation of track betting licences) after sub-
paragraph (a) insert—

16.2.c.aa

that the track has been conducted in a manner which involved serious, repeated
or continuous failure to comply with a code of practice in force under Article
180A; or

;

16.2.d

in Article 72(1) (grounds for application for revocation of bingo club
licences) after sub-paragraph (g) insert—

16.2.d.ga

that gaming on the bingo club premises has been conducted in a manner which
involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a code of
practice in force under Article 180A; or

;

16.2.e

in Article 92(1) (grounds for application for revocation of gaming machine
certificates) after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

16.2.e.aa

that the business carried on under the licence has been carried on in a manner
which involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a code
of practice in force under Article 180A; or

;

16.2.f

in Article 103(1) (grounds for application for cancellation of registration of
club) after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

16.2.f.ca

that gaming carried on in the premises of the club has been carried on in a
manner which involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a
code of practice in force under Article 180A; or

;

16.2.g

in Article 149(1) (grounds for application for revocation of lottery
certificates) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

16.2.g.da

that the business carried on under the certificate has been carried on in a
manner which involved serious, repeated or continuous failure to comply with a
code of practice in force under Article 180A; or

.

### Short title and commencement

#### Short title and commencement

17

17.1

This Act may be cited as the Betting, Gaming, Lotteries and Amusements
(Amendment) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

17.2

Except as provided by subsection (3), this Act comes into operation on the day
after the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent.

17.3

Sections 7, 13, 15 and 16 come into operation on such day or days as the
Department for Communities may by order appoint.

17.4

An order under subsection (3) may contain transitional provisions and savings
in connection with any provision brought into operation by the order.

  Schedule 15A to the 1985 Order, as inserted

Section 9

      SCHEDULE 15A     Lotteries and competitions: requirement to pay in order
to participate         Introduction     1     This Schedule makes provision
about the circumstances in which an arrangement is to be or not to be treated
for the purposes of Articles 131(2) and 168(2A) as requiring persons to pay in
order to participate in the arrangement.           Meaning of payment     2
For the purposes of Articles 131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule a reference
to paying includes a reference to—     a     paying money,         b
transferring money’s worth, and         c     paying for goods or services at
a price or rate which reflects the opportunity to participate in an
arrangement.             3     It is immaterial for the purposes of Articles
131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule—     a     to whom a payment is made, and
b     who receives benefit from a payment.             4     It is also
immaterial for the purposes of Articles 131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule
whether a person knows when making a payment that the person thereby
participates in an arrangement.           Stamps, telephone calls, etc.     5
1     For the purposes of Articles 131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule a
reference to paying does not include a reference to incurring the expense, at
a normal rate, of—     a     sending a letter by ordinary post,         b
making a telephone call, or         c     using any other method of
communication.             2     For the purpose of sub-paragraph (1)—     a
a “normal rate” is a rate which does not reflect the opportunity to enter a
lottery, and         b     ordinary post means ordinary first-class or second-
class post (without special arrangements for delivery).
Payment to discover whether prize won     6     For the purposes of Articles
131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule a requirement to pay in order to discover
whether a prize has been won under an arrangement is to be treated as a
requirement to pay in order to participate in the arrangement.
Payment to claim prize     7     For the purposes of Articles 131(2) and
168(2A) and this Schedule a requirement to pay in order to take possession of
a prize which has or may have been allocated to a person under an arrangement
is to be treated as a requirement to pay in order to participate in the
arrangement.           Choice of free entry     8       1     For the purposes
of Article 131(2) and 168(2A) and this Schedule an arrangement is not to be
treated as requiring persons to pay in order to participate if under the
arrangement—     a     each individual who is eligible to participate has a
choice whether to participate by paying or by sending a communication,
b     the communication mentioned in paragraph (a) may be either a letter sent
by ordinary post, or another method of communication which is neither more
expensive nor less convenient than paying to participate in the arrangement,
c     the choice is publicised in such a way as to be likely to come to the
attention of each individual who proposes to participate, and         d
the system for allocating prizes does not differentiate between those who
participate by paying and those who participate by sending a communication.
2     In this paragraph “ ordinary post ” has the meaning given by paragraph
5(2)(b).               Power to make regulations     9     Regulations may
provide that an activity of a specified kind or performed in specified
circumstances is to be or not to be treated for the purposes of Articles
131(2) and 168(2A) as paying to participate in an arrangement.               .

