Title: British Sign Language Act 2022
Date: 2024-11-12
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/34

## British Sign Language Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Declaration recognising British Sign Language

#### Recognition of British Sign Language

1

1.1

British Sign Language is recognised as a language of England, Wales and
Scotland.

1.2

Subsection (1) does not affect the operation of any enactment or rule of law.

1.3

But see sections 2 and 3 (which, in connection with the recognition of British
Sign Language by subsection (1), impose duties on the Secretary of State
relating to the promotion and facilitation of the use of British Sign
Language).

1.4

In this section, “enactment” includes an enactment comprised in, or in an
instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament.

### Duties relating to the promotion and facilitation of British Sign Language

#### Duty of Secretary of State to report on British Sign Language

2

2.1

The Secretary of State must prepare and publish a British Sign Language report
for each reporting period.

2.2

A British Sign Language report is a report describing what each relevant
government department has done to promote or facilitate the use of British
Sign Language in its communications with the public.

2.3

For this purpose a relevant government department’s communications with the
public include in particular—

2.3.a

any public announcement which it makes about policy or about changes to the
law,

2.3.b

the publication by it of any plan, strategy, consultation document or
consultation response, or any explanatory or supporting materials, and

2.3.c

its use of press conferences, social media or a government website to
publicise any of its activities or policies,

but do not include communications with individual members of the public, or
any other communications which the relevant government department does not
intend to be shared with the public at large.

2.4

In preparing a British Sign Language report, the Secretary of State must—

2.4.a

collect information from each relevant government department about the matters
to be covered by the report, and

2.4.b

set out in full or summarise that information in the report.

2.5

The Secretary of State must not collect, or include in a British Sign Language
report, information about any communication made by a relevant government
department so far as that communication—

2.5.a

relates only to Scotland and does not relate to reserved matters (within the
meaning of the Scotland Act 1998);

2.5.b

relates only to Wales and does not relate to reserved matters (within the
meaning of the Government of Wales Act 2006).

2.6

The Secretary of State must publish each British Sign Language report no more
than three months after the end of the reporting period to which it relates.

2.7

In this section “reporting period” means—

2.7.a

in respect of the first British Sign Language report, the period beginning
with the day on which this section comes into force and ending with 30 April
2023;

2.7.b

in respect of each subsequent British Sign Language report, the period (being
not longer than three years) beginning on the day after the previous reporting
period ended and ending on such date as the Secretary of State decides.

2.8

In this section and section 3, “relevant government department” means a United
Kingdom ministerial government department listed in the Schedule.

2.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
the list in the Schedule so as to add, remove or vary an entry in consequence
of—

2.9.a

a change to the name of a United Kingdom ministerial government department, or

2.9.b

any change to the way in which the United Kingdom ministerial government
departments are organised.

2.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (9)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

#### Guidance on use of British Sign Language

3

3.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance, or arrange for guidance to be
issued, about the promotion and facilitation of the use of British Sign
Language.

3.2

Guidance under this section may for example include—

3.2.a

advice for relevant government departments on providing information to the
Secretary of State in accordance with section 2(4),

3.2.b

advice on best practice for communicating with British Sign Language users
(both when interacting with individuals and when communicating with the public
at large), and

3.2.c

case studies to illustrate the value of providing British Sign Language
interpretation in communications with the public.

3.3

Guidance under this section must not include advice or other material which—

3.3.a

relates only to Scotland and does not relate to reserved matters (within the
meaning of the Scotland Act 1998);

3.3.b

relates only to Wales and does not relate to reserved matters (within the
meaning of the Government of Wales Act 2006).

3.4

The Secretary of State must arrange for any guidance issued under this section
to be published.

### General

#### Extent, commencement and short title

4

4.1

This Act extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

4.2

This section comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

4.3

Sections 1 and 2 and the Schedule come into force at the end of the period of
two months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

4.4

Section 3 comes into force on such day as the Secretary of State appoints by
regulations made by statutory instrument.

4.5

This Act may be cited as the British Sign Language Act 2022.

Relevant government departments

Section 2

1

Attorney General’s Office.

2

Cabinet Office.

3

Department for   Business and Trade .

4

Department for   Culture, Media and Sport .

5

Department for Education.

5A

Department for Energy Security and Net Zero.

6

Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.

7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8

Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government.

8A

Department for Science, Innovation and Technology.

9

Department for Transport.

10

Department for Work and Pensions.

11

Department of Health and Social Care.

12

Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office.

13

Her Majesty’s Treasury.

14

Home Office.

15

Ministry of Defence.

16

Ministry of Justice.

17

Office of the Leader of the House of Commons.

18

Office of the Leader of the House of Lords.

19

Office of the Secretary of State for Scotland.

20

Office of the Secretary of State for Wales.

