Title: Budget (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2023-12-03
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/3

## Budget (Scotland) Act 2022

### Financial year 2022/23

#### Use of resources etc.

##### The Scottish Administration

1

1.1

The Scottish Administration may use resources in financial year 2022/23 for
the purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 1 —

1.1.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, up to the amounts
specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that schedule,

1.1.b

in the case of accruing resources, up to the amounts specified in the
corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

1.2

Despite paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  of  subsection (1) , the resources which
may be used for a purpose specified in column 1 may exceed the amount
specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 or (as the case may be)
column 3 if—

1.2.a

in the case of resources other than accruing resources, the first condition is
met,

1.2.b

in the case of accruing resources, the second condition is met.

1.3

The first condition is that the total resources (other than accruing
resources) used in financial year 2022/23 for all purposes specified in column
1 does not exceed the total of the amounts specified in column 2.

1.4

The second condition is that the total accruing resources used in financial
year 2022/23 for all purposes specified in column 1 does not exceed the total
of the amounts specified in column 3.

##### Direct-funded bodies

2

2.1

A direct-funded body may use resources in financial year 2022/23 for the
purposes specified in column 1 of  schedule 2  in relation to the body.

2.2

Resources other than accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to
the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that
schedule.

2.3

Accruing resources may be used for those purposes up to the amounts specified
in the corresponding entries in column 3 of that schedule.

##### Borrowing by statutory bodies

3

In  schedule 3 , the amounts set out in column 2 are the amounts specified for
financial year 2022/23 for the purposes of the enactments listed in the
corresponding entries in column 1 (which make provision as to the net
borrowing of the statutory bodies mentioned in that column).

#### The Scottish Consolidated Fund

##### Overall cash authorisations

4

4.1

For the purposes of section 4(2) of the PFA Act 2000, the overall cash
authorisations for financial year 2022/23 are as follows.

4.2

In relation to the Scottish Administration,  £50,569,623,000 .

4.3

In relation to the direct-funded bodies—

4.3.a

the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body,  £110,107,000 ,

4.3.b

Audit Scotland,  £11,172,000 .

##### Contingency payments

5

5.1

This section  applies where, in financial year 2022/23, it is proposed to pay
out of the Scottish Consolidated Fund under section 65(1)(c) of the Scotland
Act 1998—

5.1.a

for or in connection with expenditure of the Scottish Administration, a sum
which does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (2)  in relation
to it, or

5.1.b

for or in connection with expenditure of a direct-funded body, a sum which
does not fall within the amount specified in  section 4 (3)  in relation to
the body.

5.2

The sum may be paid out of the Fund only if its payment is authorised by the
Scottish Ministers.

5.3

The Scottish Ministers may authorise payment of the sum only if they consider
that—

5.3.a

the payment is necessarily required in the public interest to meet urgent
expenditure for a purpose falling within section 65(2) of the Scotland Act
1998, and

5.3.b

it is not reasonably practicable, for reasons of urgency, to amend the overall
cash authorisation by regulations under  section 7 .

5.4

But the Scottish Ministers must not authorise payment of the sum if it would
result in an excess of sums paid out of the Fund over sums paid into the Fund.

5.5

The aggregate amount of the sums which the Scottish Ministers may authorise to
be paid out of the Fund under  this section  must not exceed £50,000,000.

5.6

Where the Scottish Ministers authorise a payment under  this section  they
must, as soon as possible, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report setting
out the circumstances of the authorisation and why they considered it to be
necessary.

### Financial year 2023/24

#### Emergency arrangements

6

6.1

This section  applies if, at the beginning of financial year 2023/24, there is
no overall cash authorisation for that year for the purposes of section 4(2)
of the PFA Act 2000.

6.2

Until there is in force a Budget Act providing such authorisation, there is to
be taken to be an overall cash authorisation for each calendar month of that
year in relation to each of—

6.2.a

the Scottish Administration,

6.2.b

the direct-funded bodies,

of an amount determined under  subsection (3) .

6.3

That amount is whichever is the greater of—

6.3.a

one-twelfth of the amount specified in  section 4 (2)  or  (3)  in relation to
the Scottish Administration or (as the case may be) the direct-funded body in
question,

6.3.b

the amount paid out of the Scottish Consolidated Fund under section 65(1)(c)
of the Scotland Act 1998 in the corresponding calendar month of financial year
2022/23 for or in connection with expenditure of the Scottish Administration
or (as the case may be) that direct-funded body.

6.4

Section 4 of the PFA Act 2000 has effect accordingly.

6.5

This section  is subject to any provision made by a Budget Act for financial
year 2023/24.

### Miscellaneous

#### Amendment and repeal

##### Budget revision regulations

7

7.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend—

7.1.a

the amounts specified in  section 4 (2)  and  (3) ,

7.1.b

schedules 1  to  3 .

7.2

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Repeal of spent provisions

8

Part 2 (financial year 2022/23) of the Budget (Scotland) Act 2021 is repealed.

#### Final provisions

##### Interpretation

9

9.1

In this Act, the “ PFA Act 2000 ” means the Public Finance and Accountability
(Scotland) Act 2000.

9.2

References in this Act to accruing resources in relation to the Scottish
Administration or a direct-funded body are to such resources accruing to the
Administration or (as the case may be) that body in financial year 2022/23.

9.3

References in this Act to the direct-funded bodies are to the bodies listed in
section 4 (3)  (and references to a direct-funded body are to either of those
bodies).

9.4

Except where otherwise expressly provided, expressions used in this Act and in
the PFA Act 2000 have the same meanings in this Act as they have in that Act.

##### Commencement

10

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

##### Short title

11

The short title of this Act is the Budget (Scotland) Act 2022.

The Scottish Administration

(introduced by  section 1 )

Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£) 1. Through their Health and Social Care portfolio, for
use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs;
hospital and community health services; family health services, including
local GP practices, pharmacy, dental and ophthalmic services; community care;
mental health services; capital investment; health and social care integration
outcomes framework; delivery of services by digital means and communication;
care, support and rights; social care support; early years; other health and
social care services; the Independent Living Fund Scotland; the Mental Welfare
Commission  for Scotland; Social Care and Social Work Improvement Scotland;
the Scottish Sports Council; ; Active Healthy Lives. 17,895,802,000
3,000,000,000 2. Through their Social Justice, Housing and Local Government
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; financial support to local authorities, including the
guaranteed combined general revenue grant and distributable non-domestic rates
income; a general capital grant and other local authority revenue and capital
grants for specific purposes, including the Transfer of the Management of
Development Funding and the Vacant and Derelict Land Fund; housing support
grant; other services, including discretionary payments under the Bellwin
scheme covering floods, storms and other emergencies; funding to support
research and the development and design of local taxation and local government
governance; grant assistance and funding of strategic programmes to create the
best conditions for the third sector and volunteering to thrive; building
standards; housing subsidies and guarantees; repayment of debt and associated
costs; other expenditure, contributions and grants relating to housing;
activities relating to homelessness; research and publicity and other
portfolio services; grants to local authorities and registered social
landlords; loans to individuals; participatory budgeting; social justice
activities, including tackling poverty and inequality with a particular focus
on child poverty; grants and loans to organisations; funding for advice and
advocacy services; funding to support the design, development and
implementation of social security powers; funding for Social Security
Scotland; funding for the Scottish Commission on Social Security; funding of
payments of social security assistance; funding to tackle poverty; grant
assistance; funding of strategic contracts; expenditure relating to equality
and human rights issues, including grants to organisations; expenditure
relating to tackling hate crime; expenditure relating to supporting people who
are destitute, including refugees and asylum seekers  , and in particular the
Warm Scots Welcome scheme for resettling displaced people from Ukraine in
Scotland ; expenditure relating to community support, resilience and
engagement. 18,002,225,000 90,000,000 3. Through their Finance and the Economy
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; the running and capital costs of the Scottish Public
Pensions Agency; expenditure on committees, commissions and other portfolio
services; expenditure on corporate and central services, including procurement
and e-commerce; support for the running costs of Scottish Futures Trust
Limited; digital strategy and economy; expenditure in relation to the Office
of Chief Statistician; support for Growth Accelerator and Green Growth
Accelerator programmes; regeneration programmes; planning; grant in aid for
Scottish Enterprise, Highlands and Islands Enterprise and South of Scotland
Enterprise; industry, innovation and technology/digital grants and support for
low carbon economy; sundry enterprise-related activities; expenditure in
relation to the running costs of the Office of the Chief Economic Adviser; the
Enterprise and Skills Analytical Unit; grant in aid for the Scottish National
Investment Bank; the Accountant in Bankruptcy; European Structural Fund grants
to the Enterprise Networks, local authorities, further and higher education
institutions, third sector bodies and other eligible bodies and organisations;
costs of delivery and evaluation of European Structural Fund; funding for
employment support, learning opportunities, workforce development and
supporting fair work principles; consumer policy related spend; funding for
City and Regional Growth Deals; support for Ferguson Marine; VisitScotland;
tourism; digital and broadband connectivity; contributions and grants relating
to regeneration; community-led regeneration; community engagement; community
empowerment; support for inward trade and investment and exports.
1,495,968,000 400,000,000 4. Through their Education and Skills portfolio, for
use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs;
schools; training and development of teachers; educational research,
development and promotion; Scottish Attainment Challenge related programmes;
provision of Pupil Equity Funding; supporting implementation of education
reforms; the Gaelic language; Bòrd na Gàidhlig; Gaelic Media Service (MG
Alba); the Scots language; funding of Education Scotland, Disclosure Scotland
and Additional Support Needs Tribunals for Scotland; funding expansion of
early learning and childcare; child protection and care for looked after and
vulnerable children; youth justice and preventing offending by children and
young people; secure care for children and young people; advocacy for children
and young people; development of the social services workforce; supporting
quality improvement and improvement science through the children and young
people improvement collaborative; development of the community learning and
development workforce; parenting and play; support for families with severely
disabled children; early intervention funding for the third sector through the
Children, Young People and Families Early Intervention and Adult Learning and
Empowering Communities Fund; running costs of the Scottish Child Abuse
Inquiry; running costs of the Care Review and implementation of The Promise;
incorporation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child;
implementation of Getting It Right For Every Child; financial redress for
survivors of child abuse in care, including introduction and development of
Redress Scotland; central government grants to local authorities; grant
funding for the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework Partnership and
Scottish Qualifications Authority accreditation; grant in aid for the Scottish
Further and Higher Education Funding Council, Scottish Qualifications
Authority (including qualifications delivery and development), Children's
Hearings Scotland, Scottish Children's Reporter Administration and Scottish
Social Services Council; grant in aid for Skills Development Scotland;
administration funding for the Student Awards Agency Scotland (SAAS); funding
administered by SAAS for fees, grants, bursaries, student loans and related
costs of higher education student support; Enterprise in Education; activities
associated with the Chief Scientific Adviser for Scotland and the promotion of
science; international and other educational services; funding for
international college and university activities; sundry lifelong learning
activities, including community-based adult learning; funding activities for
young people to develop skills in connection with training and work; funding
for employment support programmes; the provision of Education Maintenance
Allowances. 4,004,146,000 350,000,000 5. Through their Justice and Veterans
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; legal aid, including the running costs of the Scottish
Legal Aid Board; criminal injuries compensation (including administration);
support for victims and witnesses of crime, victims of human trafficking and
addressing violence against women and girls; certain services relating to
crime, including the Parole Board for Scotland; the Scottish Prison Service;
the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission;   the Scottish Law Commission;
the Risk Management Authority; the Scottish Police Authority and Police
Investigations and Review Commissioner  and His Majesty’s Inspectors of
Constabulary in Scotland ; additional police services; the running costs of
inquiries and reviews; the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service  and His Majesty’s
Inspectors of the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service ; the payment of police and
fire pensions; cyber resilience; central government grants to local
authorities for criminal justice social work; measures to create safer and
stronger communities, including Community Justice Scotland; miscellaneous
services relating to the administration of justice; veterans; community
justice services; court services, including judicial pensions; certain legal
services; costs and fees in connection with legal proceedings;  ....
3,328,192,000 39,700,000 6. Through their Net Zero, Energy and Transport
portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and
administrative costs; support for passenger rail services, rail infrastructure
and associated rail services; support for the development and delivery of
concessionary travel schemes; support for the bus industry; funding for major
public transport projects; the running costs of Transport Scotland; funding
for the Strategic Transport Projects Review; funding for travel information
services and accessible travel; the maintenance and enhancement of the trunk
road network; support for ferry services, loans and grants relating to vessel
construction or procurement, grants for pier, harbour and other port
infrastructure; support for Highlands and Islands Airports Limited; support
and loans for investment in air services; funding for the Air Discount Scheme;
support for the Tay Road Bridge Joint Board; support for the freight industry;
support for Scottish Canals; funding to promote sustainable and active travel;
funding and loans to support net-zero emissions and climate change transport
initiatives; contributing to the running costs of Regional Transport
Partnerships and other bodies associated with the transport sector; support
for the Glasgow Subway Modernisation programme; funding for road safety; costs
in relation to funding the office of the Scottish Road Works Commissioner;
costs related to public inquiries; funding for domestic energy efficiency,
insulation and refurbishment projects; funding for domestic and non-domestic
energy-related activities; central government grants to local authorities;
advisory, research and development services; action to prevent waste, improve
recycling, reduce emissions from waste, tackle litter and deliver a circular
economy strategy; botanical and scientific services; assistance to production,
marketing and processing; administration, land management and other
agricultural services; natural economy, including addressing biodiversity loss
and peatland and nature restoration; environmental protection; other
environmental expenditure; flood prevention; coastal protection; air quality
monitoring; climate change activities, including the Land Managers’ Renewables
Fund and Climate Justice Fund; funding for land reform and community
ownership; Scottish Natural Heritage; the Scottish Environment Protection
Agency; the National Park authorities; Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh; the
Scottish Land Commission; water grants, including to the Water Industry
Commission for Scotland and funding for the Drinking Water Quality Regulator
for Scotland; loans to Scottish Water and Scottish Water Business Stream
Holdings Limited; Scottish Forestry; Forestry and Land Scotland; the promotion
of forestry and land management, including advising on the development and
delivery of forestry policy; regulating the forestry sector and supporting it
through grants; managing Scotland’s national forests and land. 4,141,133,000
600,000,000 7. Through their Rural Affairs and Islands portfolio, for use by
the Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; market
support, including grants in relation to agriculture and food and drink;
support for agriculture in special areas, including grants for rural
development; rural development generally; agri-environmental and farm woodland
measures; compensation to sheep producers; animal health; agricultural
education; agricultural support reform; administration of the European
Maritime and Fisheries Fund and the emergency harbour grants scheme; rural
affairs; support for crofting communities, including the crofting environment;
funding for National Islands Plan related initiatives; core marine functions
involving scientific research, compliance, policy and management of Scotland’s
seas, representing Scotland’s interests in relation to common fisheries
policy, international fisheries policy, international fisheries negotiation
and aquaculture and freshwater policy, administration of all marine consents
required for depositing substances at sea, coastal protection and offshore
renewables and sponsorship of Crown Estate Scotland. 897,879,000 300,000,000
8. Through their Constitution, External Affairs and Culture portfolio, for use
by the Scottish Ministers on: operational and administrative costs; support
for the arts, culture and creativity in Scotland; cultural and heritage
organisations; the creative industries; central government grants to non-
departmental public bodies, local authorities and other bodies and
organisations; architecture; funding to support Royal and ceremonial activity;
international and European relations; protecting Scotland’s place in Europe;
development assistance. 271,038,000 200,000,000 9. Through their Deputy First
Minister and Covid Recovery portfolio, for use by the Scottish Ministers on:
operational and administrative costs; running costs of Scottish Resilience,
including supporting community resilience projects; funding to support
electoral administration; funding of Boundaries Scotland; funding to support
social research and analysis; funding to support implementation of extension
of Freedom of Information legislation; costs associated with the functions of
the Queen's Printer for Scotland; expenditure and grant assistance in relation
to public service reform and efficiency. 44,847,000 Nil 10. For use by the
Lord Advocate, through the Crown Office and Procurator Fiscal Service, on:
operational and administrative costs relating to the investigation and
prosecution of crime and the investigation of deaths; operational and
administrative costs in relation to functions in respect of extradition and
mutual legal assistance; costs relating to the United Kingdom's withdrawal
from the European Union, including work on the consequences for continued law
enforcement and criminal justice co-operation; fees paid to Advocate Deputes,
temporary procurators fiscal and ad hoc Advocate Deputes; witness expenses;
victim expenses; other costs associated with Crown prosecutions and cases
brought under the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; for use by the Lord Advocate,
through the Civil Recovery Unit, on: investigations and cases brought under
the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002; and for use by the Crown Agent for the office
of the Queen's and Lord Treasurer's Remembrancer (including special payments
made in relation to intestate estates which fall to the Crown as ultimate
heir). 194,513,000 3,000,000 11. Through the National Records of Scotland, for
use by the Scottish Ministers, the Registrar General of Births, Deaths and
Marriages for Scotland and the Keeper of the Records of Scotland on:
operational and administrative costs (including costs associated with running
the ScotlandsPeople Centre and delivery of Scotland's Census). 62,860,000
9,800,000 12. For use by the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator on:
operational and administrative costs. 3,430,000 Nil 13. For use by the
Scottish Housing Regulator on: operational and administrative costs. 5,234,000
Nil 14. For use by the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service on: operational
and administrative costs. 186,493,000 47,000,000 15. For use by the Scottish
Fiscal Commission on: operational and administrative costs. 2,303,000 Nil 16.
For use by Revenue Scotland on: operational and administrative costs.
7,721,000 Nil 17. For use by Food Standards Scotland on: operational and
administrative costs, including research, monitoring and surveillance and
public information and awareness relating to food safety, standards and
improving diet; protecting the other interests of consumers in relation to
food. 26,170,000 5,000,000 18. For use by the Scottish Ministers on: pensions,
allowances, gratuities etc. payable in respect of the teachers' and national
health service pension schemes. 6,966,062,000 3,100,000,000 19. For use by
Registers of Scotland on: operational and administrative costs. 13,065,000
100,000,000 20. For use by Environmental Standards Scotland on: operational
and administrative costs.  2,101,000 Nil Total amount of resources
57,551,182,000 8,244,500,000

Direct-funded bodies

(introduced by  section 2 )

Purposes Amount of resources, other than accruing resources (£) Amount of
accruing resources (£) 1. For use by the Scottish Parliamentary Corporate Body
on: operational and administrative costs of the Scottish Parliament; payments
in respect of the Commissioner for Ethical Standards in Public Life in
Scotland, the Standards Commission for Scotland, the Scottish Public Services
Ombudsman, the Scottish Information Commissioner, the Scottish Commission for
Human Rights, the Commissioner for Children and Young People in Scotland, the
Scottish Biometrics Commissioner and the devolved Scottish functions of the
Electoral Commission; any other payments relating to the Scottish Parliament.
130,186,000 1,000,000 2. For use by Audit Scotland on: the exercise of its
functions, including assistance and support to the Auditor General for
Scotland and the Accounts Commission for Scotland; other audit work for public
bodies; payment of pensions to former Local Government Ombudsmen and their
staff. 17,037,000 25,000,000

  Borrowing by statutory bodies

(introduced by  section 3 )

    Enactment Amount (£)   1. Section 25 of the Enterprise and New Towns
(Scotland) Act 1990 (Scottish Enterprise). 10,000,000 2. Section 26 of that
Act (Highlands and Islands Enterprise). 1,000,000 3. Section 48 of the
Environment Act 1995 (Scottish Environment Protection Agency). Nil 4. Section
42B of the Water Industry (Scotland) Act 2002 (Scottish Water). 220,000,000 5.
Section 14 of the Water Services etc. (Scotland) Act 2005 (Scottish Water
Business Stream Holdings Limited and any subsidiary of it within the meaning
of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006). 100,000,000

