Title: Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: Authorise the issue out of the Consolidated Fund of certain sums for the service of the years ending 31 March 2022 and 2023; to appropriate those sums for specified purposes; to authorise the use for the public service of certain resources for those years; to revise the limits on the use of certain accruing resources in the year ending 31 March 2022; and to authorise the Department of Finance to borrow on the credit of the sum appropriated for the year ending 31 March 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/6

## Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by Her Majesty as follows:

### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31 March 2022 and appropriation of that sum

1

1.1

The Department of Finance may issue out of the Consolidated Fund and apply to
the service of the year ending 31 March 2022 the sum of £21,827,567,000.

1.2

That sum is appropriated for the purposes specified in Schedule 1.

1.3

The authorisation and appropriations in this section supersede those made by
section 4 of the Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 and section 1 of the
Budget (No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021; and, in relation to any amount
specified in column 2 of Schedule 1, any increase or decrease in the amount
appropriated is given in brackets after the amount.

### Use of resources (other than accruing resources) in the year ending 31 March 2022

2

2.1

For the purposes of section 6(1) of the 2001 Act, this section authorises the
use of resources in the year ending 31 March 2022 by the persons mentioned in
subsection (3) to the amount of £24,645,707,000.

2.2

In that year, resources may be used by a person mentioned in that subsection
for the purposes specified in relation to that person in column 1 of Schedule
2 up to the amounts specified in the corresponding entries in column 2 of that
Schedule.

2.3

The persons are—

2.3.a

the Northern Ireland departments;

2.3.b

the Food Standards Agency;

2.3.c

the Northern Ireland Assembly Commission;

2.3.d

the Northern Ireland Audit Office;

2.3.e

the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;

2.3.f

the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman;

2.3.g

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

2.4

The authorisations in this section supersede those made by section 6 of the
Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 and section 3 of the Budget (No. 2) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021; and, in relation to any amount specified in column 2
of Schedule 2, any increase or decrease by virtue of this section in the
amount authorised is given in brackets after the amount.

2.5

In this section, “ resources ” does not include accruing resources within the
meaning of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act.

### Revised limits on use of certain accruing resources in the year ending 31 March 2022

3

3.1

For the purposes of section 8(1) of the 2001 Act, this section sets the
relevant limits on the accruing resources that may be directed to be used for
certain purposes in the year ending 31 March 2022 in addition to resources
authorised by this Act or any other statutory provision to be used for those
purposes in that year.

3.2

In that year accruing resources not exceeding the amount specified in column 3
of Schedule 2 may be directed to be used for the purposes specified in the
corresponding entries in column 1 of that Schedule.

3.3

The limits set by this section supersede those set by section 4 of the Budget
(No. 2) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021; and, in relation to any amount specified
in column 3 of Schedule 2 any increase or decrease by virtue of this section
in the amount of the limit is given in brackets after the amount.

### Issue of sum out of the Consolidated Fund for the year ending 31 March 2023 and appropriation of that sum

4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Power of the Department of Finance to borrow

5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Use of resources (other than accruing resources) in the year ending 31 March 2023

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Interpretation

7

In this Act, “ the 2001 Act ” means the Government Resources and Accounts Act
(Northern Ireland) 2001.

### Short title

8

This Act may be cited as the Budget Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

## SCHEDULES

  Sums granted for the year ending 31 March 2022

Section 1

    Purpose Sums Granted (£)   DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND
RURAL AFFAIRS For expenditure by the Department of Agriculture, Environment
and Rural Affairs on the provision of agricultural, educational and knowledge
transfer services, research and development and payments and grants to
societies, associations, institutions, clubs and other organisations for agri-
food purposes, horticulture and rural development; provision of veterinary
services, official controls and other official activities including animal
health and welfare, veterinary public health and veterinary certification of
live animals and animal products and payments of compensation to farmers for
animals culled in disease control programmes; provision of policy support,
future policy development and legislation for the agri-food and equine
industries and animal health and welfare; veterinary medicines, antimicrobial
resistance, dog control, wildlife interventions and rural needs; protection
for all aspects of animal, bee and plant health and welfare; provision of
policy support, future policy development and legislation for protection and
conservation of sea fisheries, inland fisheries, aquaculture and the
environment; provision of country parks and nature reserves; grants and
grants-in-aid for the Agri-Food and Biosciences Institute, the Loughs Agency
of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish Lights Commission and the Northern Ireland
Fishery Harbour Authority; the Livestock and Meat Commission for Northern
Ireland, the Council for Nature Conservation and the Countryside and the
Agricultural Wages Board for Northern Ireland; subsidy and grant for Forest
Service; grants for scientific services by other bodies; support for
innovation; providing hardship assistance; conservation; natural heritage;
green growth, environmental legislation and protection; operation of the
carrier bag levy; regulation, maintenance, protection, development and
conservation of forests and preparation for wind-farm development; contingency
planning and exercising; payments under European Union or Nationally Funded
Programmes including the Common Agricultural Policy and disallowance; payments
to district councils and other approved delivery bodies; other expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; expenditure on enforcement activities; digital services;
administration costs; compensation payments; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic.   689,494,000       (+23,643,000)
DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES For expenditure by the Department for Communities
on social security administration including the payment of appropriate grants,
loans, compensation, benefits and allowances; payment of social security
benefits, other benefits and National Insurance credits to people of working
age, to pensioners and customers abroad and to people with disabilities and
their carers, provision of grants and compensation; discretionary support
grants and loans and repayment of loans; welfare supplementary payments and
expenditure associated with the amendment of special rules for terminal
illness; loans for support for mortgage interest and certain home improvement
loans; provision of youth and adult employment services programmes and skills
training programmes; sums payable into the Social Fund for expenditure on
grants, loans and payments; sums payable to the Northern Ireland National
Insurance Fund for associated statutory payments; payment of the cash value of
European Commission officials’ transferable state pension rights to the
pension scheme of the European Union Institution; employment schemes and
services, including those for people with disabilities, and career
information, advice and guidance services; promoting and protecting the
interests of children, older people, people with disabilities, and other
socially excluded groups; Financial Assistance Scheme; child maintenance
service; housing services, including discretionary payments, loans and
subsidies; housing-led regeneration; regulation of the NI Housing Association
sector; arts, creativity, museums, libraries, linguistic and cultural
diversity, sport, recreation and other services; historic environment and
payments to hold or support events; acquisition and preservation of, and
provision of access to, archival heritage; residual payments in relation to
the wind up of the Northern Ireland Events Company; urban regeneration
including services such as property maintenance and events; community and
voluntary sector; the cost of services provided to the United Kingdom
Resettlement Scheme; grants to district councils in support of local services
and transferred functions; payments to Local Government Staff Commission
Northern Ireland; emergency financial assistance; built heritage; North/South
Language Body; payments under European Union Structural Funds programmes; sums
payable under the Fresh Start Agreement and New Decade New Approach;
delivering the Programme for Government; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and the energy crisis; the costs of
administering services provided to the Department for Work and Pensions, other
departments and partner organisations; administration costs, including
developmental work on systems; grants and grants-in-aid; severance payments;
grant funding for delivery of the All-Island Local Authority Programme;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union.   5,620,490,000       (+81,274,000)
DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY For expenditure by the Department for the Economy
on economic development; Governmental response to and recovery from the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; Science, Technology, Innovation, Research and
Development policy including the development of circular economy policies,
evaluation and departmental research; assistance to aircraft and shipbuilding
industries (including the residual costs in connection with the privatisation
of aircraft and shipbuilding companies); support for the agri-food industry;
support in relation to air access; economic infrastructure in support of
economic development including regulatory reform, supporting delivery of
City/Growth Deals including the Inclusive Future Fund and the Complementary
Fund, mineral and petroleum licensing and legislation, geological research and
safeguarding abandoned mines; energy strategy, energy policy and legislation;
sustainable energy including energy efficiency measures; assistance to the gas
and electricity industries; Renewable Heat Incentive Scheme and associated
costs; investment in telecommunications infrastructure with a view to
facilitating improvements in networks or access to services; grant-in-aid to
InterTradeIreland and Invest Northern Ireland including hardship payments to
business and industry; grant-in-aid to Northern Ireland Screen; development of
tourism to include acquisition, management and disposal of assets and
resources associated with the development of tourism, grant-in-aid to the
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland) and
Tourism Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland);
grant-in-aid to the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland and the
Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland; business regulation
including company law, Insolvency Service, trading standards and consumer
affairs services; mutuals policy, legislation and operations; repayment of
funds made available to the Presbyterian Mutual Society to make payments to
eligible persons; social economy; higher education (including universities and
colleges of education); further education including grant-in-aid to the
Further Education Colleges; youth and adult skills training; management and
enterprise training; student support and other matters relating to tertiary
education, including grant-in-aid to certain bodies, grants in respect of
Education Maintenance Allowances and certain payments to the Department of
Education in Northern Ireland, the Department for Education in England, the
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and the British
Council; repayment of loans; labour market services including employment law,
tribunals, labour relations and employer support; employment schemes and
services, including those for people with disabilities, and career
information, advice and guidance services; payments under European Union
Structural Funds Programmes; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration
costs, including redundancy payments, severance payments; compensation
payments in relation to the holiday pay case; related services.
1,667,779,000       (+15,969,000)     DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION General For
expenditure by the Department of Education on pre-school education, schools
(including library and support services for schools and pupils); the youth
service; children’s services; childcare services; community relations measures
for young people and other related services; certain services for children,
young people and families; associated departmental administration and
services, including settlement of NICS equal pay claims; grants and grants-in-
aid to the Education Authority for certain services (including for core and
school-related administration) and for youth service and community relations
provision and directly associated administration; grants and grants-in-aid to
certain other bodies; payments by the Department in respect of certain
teachers’ salaries; repayment of loans; payments under the European Union
Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
severance payments; compensation payments; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic.   2,857,801,000       (+185,639,000)
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Teachers’ superannuation For expenditure by the
Department of Education on pensions, allowances, gratuities etc; certain
payments to the Northern Ireland National Insurance Fund; certain payments in
respect of premature retirement compensation made to members of the scheme and
on behalf of their employers; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; severance
payments; compensation payments; Governmental response to the coronavirus
COVID-19 pandemic.   101,347,000       (-17,554,000)     DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE
General For expenditure by the Department of Finance on Finance, Procurement
and Policy including Public Sector Reform; Business Consultancy Services;
Construction and Procurement Delivery; the Departmental Solicitor’s Office;
Internal Audit Services; NICS shared services for personnel, finance, ICT,
training, digital transformation and service related administration costs;
NICS Accommodation Services including to the wider public sector; grant-in-aid
payments; receipt of grants; the administration of centralised funds; services
provided by the Northern Ireland Statistics and Research Agency and Land and
Property Services; grants to district councils; operational and programme
costs of the Special European Union Programmes Body; payment and income under
the European Union structural funds programmes; operational costs of the
Fiscal Council and Fiscal Commission; the sponsorship and provision of
secretariats in respect of other independent bodies; other common services;
settlement of NICS equal pay claims; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; severance
payments; compensation payments.   483,157,000       (+3,712,000)
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE Superannuation and other allowances For expenditure by
the Department of Finance on pensions, lump sums, transfers out, refunds,
injury benefit, compensation, tax and gratuities to or in respect of persons
covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service Compensation
Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI); expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic.
80,000,000       (+10,995,000)     DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH General For
expenditure by the Department of Health on hospital, paramedic and ambulance
services; community health services; family health services; social care
services; public health and wellbeing programmes; training; European Union
programmes; firefighting, rescue and fire safety services; grants to voluntary
organisations and other bodies; reviews and inquiries; compensation,
settlement of legal claims and ex-gratia payments; indemnities; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
severance payments; administration; related services.   7,158,982,000       (+
871,345,000)     DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH Health and Social Care Pension Scheme
For expenditure by the Department of Health on pension scheme benefits to or
in respect of persons engaged in health and social care or other approved
employment; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic.   -       (-)     DEPARTMENT FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
For expenditure by the Department for Infrastructure on design, construction
and maintenance of roads, bridges, walking and cycling infrastructure,
footpaths, street lighting and car parks; purchase of land, property,
vehicles, ferries, plant, computer software, equipment and stores; supporting
research in the development of new innovative digital solutions; public
liability claims; compensation payments; costs associated with the
decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs associated with the
enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated with residents’
parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the recreational or
navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated watercourses and
sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the maintenance of
reservoirs in which the department has an interest; construction and
maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures; protection of drainage
function of all watercourses; implementation of European Union Floods
Directive; emergency response to flooding and Lead Government Department
responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage Order; enhancing
community resilience to flooding; development of reservoir safety legislation
and support for Drainage Council for Northern Ireland; Flood Risk Planning
consultation advice; protection, restoration and bringing back into active use
the Grade A listed Crumlin Road Gaol and the management of the St Lucia site;
road safety services and promotion; driver licensing, driver and vehicle
testing, transport licensing, enforcement and regulation; issue of Commercial
Bus Service Permits; Application and Licensing Fees for Goods Vehicle
Operators; operation and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and
grants in respect of the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle
and Rathlin Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport
services including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services
including fare concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with
disabilities, rural transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance
of bus shelters, purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works;
environmentally sustainable transport and related infrastructure including
Active School Travel Programme, grants for greenways and active travel and
grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle strategies;
energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning including
grants, planning policy, governance and oversight of planning and plan making
within local councils; transport planning and visioning; payments under
European Union programmes; grants in respect of certain inland waterways;
grant-in-aid to Waterways Ireland; payment of income subsidies, equity
injections, grants and net lending to Northern Ireland Water Limited; the
shareholder and water, flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions;
repayment of loans; consultants’ and other fees; expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
administration costs; payments in relation to the holiday pay case; severance
payments; related services including services to other departments.
1,430,764,000       (+207,827,000)     DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE General For
expenditure by the Department of Justice on policy development and service
improvement; Access to Justice services; forensic science services; crime and
public protection services; civil and criminal justice including youth justice
services; reducing offending; probation and after-care; state pathology;
compensation schemes; Safer Communities including policing and police
pensions; historical investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of
the Stormont House Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; search and rescue
costs; payments in relation to proceeds of crime; security costs; expenditure
arising from the Northern Ireland Act 2009; expenditure arising from the
Justice Act (NI) 2011; the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland; the Northern
Ireland Policing Board; Access Northern Ireland; the Northern Ireland Police
Fund; Police Rehabilitation and Retraining Trust; RUC George Cross Foundation;
Independent Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting; prisons, the Parole
Commissioners for Northern Ireland, the Independent Monitoring Boards and the
Prisoner Ombudsman; the Northern Ireland Law Commission; the Northern Ireland
Courts and Tribunals Service including the administration of Tribunals, and
costs relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and
associated compensation payments, costs relating to the Victims’ Payments
Board and Troubles Permanent Disablement Payment Scheme, and other functions
managed under Service Level Agreements; the Legal Services Agency Northern
Ireland; Criminal Justice Inspection Northern Ireland; other grants;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration costs; settlement of equal pay
and holiday pay claims; severance payments; pension scheme payments; related
services.   1,447,848,000       (+36,188,000)     DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Northern Ireland Judicial Pension Scheme For expenditure by the Department of
Justice on pension scheme benefits to or in respect of persons covered by the
Northern Ireland Judicial Pension Scheme; expenditure on activities that are
required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union;
Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic.   500,000
(-)     THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE For expenditure by The Executive Office on
support to the Executive Committee; the North-South Ministerial Council; the
British-Irish Council; the Joint Ministerial Committee and associated matters;
civil contingencies; the Reinvestment and Reform Initiative; delivery of a
Programme for Government, including supporting the renewal of the NICS of the
future; re-establishment of the economic policy unit; liaison with other
bodies, persons and authorities (both inside and outside Northern Ireland);
information services; the legislative programme; promotion of human rights,
equality of opportunity and social inclusion and the alleviation of
disadvantage including in situations of severe stress, crisis or emergency;
work associated with historical clerical child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes
and Magdalene Laundries; the actions and commitments contained in the
Executive’s Good Relations Strategy Together: Building a United Community
including the T:BUC Camps Programme, Planned Interventions Programme, Central
Good Relations Fund and District Councils Good Relations Programme, the Racial
Equality Strategy and actions associated with the integration of Refugees; the
European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation; delivering social
change including the associated Executive Funds; victims and survivors
including actions and payments associated with the preparation and
implementation of a Victims Payments Scheme for Permanent Disablement; actions
related to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and the
Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse within the
Historical Institutional Abuse (NI) Act 2019 including payments to the
designated department under that Act for administrative costs of the Board,
awards of compensation and costs and expenses in connection with applications
and appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the Hart Report,
including a public apology, seeking contributions from Institutions towards
the costs of redress and services for victims and survivors; implementation of
the Stormont House Agreement and the Fresh Start Agreement; actions associated
with the implementation of the New Decade, New Approach Deal; North West
Development Fund; the regeneration of Ebrington; grant-in-aid to the Strategic
Investment Board Limited, the Maze/Long Kesh Development Corporation, the
Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Commission, the Equality Commission for
Northern Ireland, the Commission for Victims and Survivors for Northern
Ireland, the Northern Ireland Community Relations Council, the Victims and
Survivors Service Limited, the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional
Childhood Abuse; expenses of the Attorney General for Northern Ireland and the
Commissioner for Public Appointments for Northern Ireland; public
appointments, including the appointment of the Commissioner for Children and
Young People for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for Older People for
Northern Ireland; support for the Compact Civic Advisory Panel; policy on
standards in public life; the Commission on Flags, Identity, Culture and
Tradition; promoting the devolved administration’s interests internationally
by supporting the development of relationships with stakeholders overseas,
inward visitors, and representatives from overseas on devolved matters,
supporting international activities of benefit to NI, including establishing,
maintaining and developing the work of the offices overseas; in particular
managing and promoting the devolved administration’s interests in Europe;
policy development in respect of the devolved administration’s
responsibilities and interests in relation to the EU following the UK’s exit;
expenditure on devolved functions that are required as a result of the
international agreements entered into by the United Kingdom; Governmental
response to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; delivery of a
strategy to tackle violence against women and girls; settlement of the NICS
equal pay claims; severance payments.   175,587,000       (-16,089,000)
FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY For expenditure by the Food Standards Agency on
improving food safety and promoting healthy eating; food safety inspection and
enforcement; incident management; consumer awareness of food safety, choice
and healthy eating options; research; training and education; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
administration; related services.   13,487,000       (+ 1,516,000)
NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION For expenditure by the Northern Ireland
Assembly Commission on remunerating and supporting Members of the Assembly in
discharging their duties in the Assembly, constituencies and elsewhere;
enhancing public awareness and involvement in the working of the Assembly;
hosting events; compensation and severance payments; expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; administration; response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; related
services.   44,138,000       (-3,379,000)     NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE
For expenditure by the Northern Ireland Audit Office on audit and assurance
services; promoting economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public
funds and resources; conducting exercises to assist in fraud prevention and
detection; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration; related services.   12,560,000
(-305,000)     NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION For
expenditure by the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation for
developing and regulating the electricity, gas, water and sewerage industries
and markets; promoting competition; protecting consumers; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
administration; related services.   1,027,000       (+107,000)     NORTHERN
IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN For expenditure by the Northern Ireland
Public Services Ombudsman on investigating complaints of injustice suffered
through maladministration by government departments, statutory agencies,
public bodies, local government and health and social care bodies, general and
independent health care providers, colleges, universities and boards of
governors of grant-aided schools; investigating and adjudicating on complaints
on local government ethical standards against councillors and return of
unspent funding; severance payments; expenditure in response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; expenditure on activities that are required as
a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration;
backdated holiday compensation payments; related services.   3,468,000
(-35,000)     PUBLIC PROSECUTION SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND For expenditure
by the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland on the prosecution of
offences; legal services; employment of independent counsel; court costs and
costs awarded; payments and services to other departments and public sector
bodies; trainee grants; payments under the Asset Recovery Incentivisation
Scheme; staffing; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of
the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration costs;
Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; settlement of
holiday pay claims; settlement of other claims; severance payments; other
related services.   39,138,000       (+2,303,000)     TOTAL 21,827,567,000

  Amounts of resources authorised for use and amounts of accruing resources
which may be used in the year ending 31 March 2022

Sections 2 and 3

    Purpose Resources authorised for use (£) Total Accruing Resources  (£)
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, ENVIRONMENT AND RURAL AFFAIRS A. For use by the
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs on the provision of
agricultural, educational and knowledge transfer services, research and
development and payments and grants to societies, associations, institutions,
clubs and other organisations for agri-food purposes, horticulture and rural
development; provision of veterinary services, official controls and other
official activities including animal health and welfare, veterinary public
health and veterinary certification of live animals and animal products and
payments of compensation to farmers for animals culled in disease control
programmes; provision of policy support, future policy development and
legislation for the agri-food and equine industries and animal health and
welfare; veterinary medicines, antimicrobial resistance, dog control, wildlife
interventions and rural needs; protection for all aspects of animal, bee and
plant health and welfare; provision of policy support, future policy
development and legislation for protection and conservation of sea fisheries,
inland fisheries, aquaculture and the environment; provision of country parks
and nature reserves; grants and grants-in-aid for the Agri-Food and
Biosciences Institute, the Loughs Agency of the Foyle, Carlingford and Irish
Lights Commission and the Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority; the
Livestock and Meat Commission for Northern Ireland, the Council for Nature
Conservation and the Countryside and the Agricultural Wages Board for Northern
Ireland; subsidy and grant for Forest Service; grants for scientific services
by other bodies; support for innovation; providing hardship assistance;
conservation; natural heritage; green growth, environmental legislation and
protection; operation of the carrier bag levy; regulation, maintenance,
protection, development and conservation of forests and preparation for wind-
farm development; contingency planning and exercising; payments under European
Union or Nationally Funded Programmes including the Common Agricultural Policy
and disallowance; payments to district councils and other approved delivery
bodies; other expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; expenditure on enforcement
activities; digital services; administration costs; compensation payments;
Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; associated non-
cash items.   688,309,000       (+8,306,000)       82,045,000
(-17,057,000)     DEPARTMENT FOR COMMUNITIES A. For use by the Department for
Communities on Social security administration including the payment of
appropriate grants, loans, compensation, benefits and allowances; payment of
social security benefits, other benefits and National Insurance credits to
people of working age, to pensioners and customers abroad and to people with
disabilities and their carers, provision of grants and compensation;
discretionary support grants and loans and repayment of loans; welfare
supplementary payments and expenditure associated with the amendment of
special rules for terminal illness; loans for support for mortgage interest
and certain home improvement loans; provision of youth and adult employment
services programmes and skills training programmes; sums payable into the
Social Fund for expenditure on grants, loans and payments; sums payable to the
Northern Ireland National Insurance Fund for associated statutory payments;
payment of the cash value of European Commission officials’ transferable state
pension rights to the pension scheme of the European Union Institution;
employment schemes and services, including those for people with disabilities,
and career information, advice and guidance services; promoting and protecting
the interests of children, older people, people with disabilities, and other
socially excluded groups; Financial Assistance Scheme; child maintenance
service; housing services, including discretionary payments, loans and
subsidies; housing-led regeneration; regulation of the NI Housing Association
sector; arts, creativity, museums, libraries, linguistic and cultural
diversity, sport, recreation and other services; historic environment and
payments to hold or support events; acquisition and preservation of, and
provision of access to, archival heritage; residual payments in relation to
the wind up of the Northern Ireland Events Company; urban regeneration
including services such as property maintenance and events; community and
voluntary sector; the cost of services provided to the United Kingdom
Resettlement Scheme; grants to district councils in support of local services
and transferred functions; payments to Local Government Staff Commission
Northern Ireland; emergency financial assistance; built heritage; North/South
Language Body; payments under European Union Structural Funds programmes; sums
payable under the Fresh Start Agreement and New Decade New Approach;
delivering the Programme for Government; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic and the energy crisis; the costs of
administering services provided to the Department for Work and Pensions, other
departments and partner organisations; administration costs, including
developmental work on systems; grants and grants-in-aid; severance payments;
grant funding for delivery of the All-Island Local Authority Programme;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; associated non-cash items.
5,642,274,000       (+109,502,000)       217,289,000       (+20,160,000)
DEPARTMENT FOR THE ECONOMY A. For use by the Department for the Economy on
economic development; Governmental response to and recovery from the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; Science, Technology, Innovation, Research and
Development policy including the development of circular economy policies,
evaluation and departmental research; assistance to aircraft and shipbuilding
industries (including the residual costs in connection with the privatisation
of aircraft and shipbuilding companies); support for the agri-food industry;
support in relation to air access; economic infrastructure in support of
economic development including regulatory reform, supporting delivery of
City/Growth Deals including the Inclusive Future Fund and the Complementary
Fund, mineral and petroleum licensing and legislation, geological research and
safeguarding abandoned mines; energy strategy, energy policy and legislation;
sustainable energy including energy efficiency measures; assistance to the gas
and electricity industries; Renewable Heat Incentive Scheme and associated
costs; investment in telecommunications infrastructure with a view to
facilitating improvements in networks or access to services; grant-in-aid to
InterTradeIreland and Invest Northern Ireland including hardship payments to
business and industry; grant-in-aid to Northern Ireland Screen; development of
tourism to include acquisition, management and disposal of assets and
resources associated with the development of tourism, grant-in-aid to the
Northern Ireland Tourist Board (trading as Tourism Northern Ireland) and
Tourism Ireland Company Limited by Guarantee (trading as Tourism Ireland);
grant-in-aid to the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland and the
Health and Safety Executive for Northern Ireland; business regulation
including company law, Insolvency Service, trading standards and consumer
affairs services; mutuals policy, legislation and operations; repayment of
funds made available to the Presbyterian Mutual Society to make payments to
eligible persons; social economy; higher education (including universities and
colleges of education); further education including grant-in-aid to the
Further Education Colleges; youth and adult skills training; management and
enterprise training; student support and other matters relating to tertiary
education, including grant-in-aid to certain bodies, grants in respect of
Education Maintenance Allowances and certain payments to the Department of
Education in Northern Ireland, the Department for Education in England, the
Department of Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy and the British
Council; repayment of loans; labour market services including employment law,
tribunals, labour relations and employer support; employment schemes and
services, including those for people with disabilities, and career
information, advice and guidance services; payments under European Union
Structural Funds Programmes; expenditure on activities that are required as a
result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration
costs, including redundancy payments, severance payments; compensation
payments in relation to the holiday pay case, related services; associated
non-cash items.   1,686,210,000       (+234,285,000)       257,481,000
(+51,740,000)     DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION General A. For use by the Department
of Education on pre-school education, schools (including library and support
services for schools and pupils); the youth service; children’s services;
childcare services; community relations measures for young people and other
related services; certain services for children, young people and families;
associated departmental administration and services, including settlement of
NICS equal pay claims; grants and grants-in-aid to the Education Authority for
certain services (including for core and school-related administration) and
for youth service and community relations provision and directly associated
administration; grants and grants-in-aid to certain other bodies; payments by
the Department in respect of certain teachers’ salaries; repayment of loans;
payments under the European Union Programme for Peace and Reconciliation;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; severance payments; compensation
payments; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
associated non-cash items.   2,838,969,000       (+185,731,000)
16,780,000       (-3,318,000)     DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Teachers’
superannuation A. For use by the Department of Education on pensions,
allowances, gratuities etc; certain payments to the Northern Ireland National
Insurance Fund; certain payments in respect of premature retirement
compensation made to members of the scheme and on behalf of their employers;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; severance payments; compensation
payments; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
associated non-cash items.   710,633,000       (+10,089,000)       359,367,000
(+17,811,000)     DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE General A. For use by the Department
of Finance on Finance, Procurement and Policy including Public Sector Reform;
Business Consultancy Services; Construction and Procurement Delivery; the
Departmental Solicitor’s Office; Internal Audit Services; NICS shared services
for personnel, finance, ICT, training, digital transformation and service
related administration costs; NICS Accommodation Services including to the
wider public sector; grant-in-aid payments; receipt of grants; the
administration of centralised funds; services provided by the Northern Ireland
Statistics and Research Agency and Land and Property Services; grants to
district councils; operational and programme costs of the Special European
Union Programmes Body; payment and income under the European Union structural
funds programmes; operational costs of the Fiscal Council and Fiscal
Commission; the sponsorship and provision of secretariats in respect of other
independent bodies; other common services; settlement of NICS equal pay
claims; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; severance payments; compensation payments;
associated non-cash items.   353,425,000       (+60,464,000)       136,145,000
(+14,838,000)     DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE Superannuation and other allowances A.
For use by the Department of Finance on pensions, lump sums, transfers out,
refunds, injury benefit, compensation, tax and gratuities to or in respect of
persons covered by the NICS Pension Arrangements, the Civil Service
Compensation Scheme (NI) and the Civil Service Injury Benefit Scheme (NI);
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; associated non-cash items.   538,000,000
(+11,945,000)       345,044,000       (+12,194,000)     DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
General A. For use by the Department of Health on hospital, paramedic and
ambulance services; community health services; family health services; social
care services; public health and wellbeing programmes; training; European
Union programmes; firefighting, rescue and fire safety services; grants to
voluntary organisations and other bodies; reviews and inquiries; compensation,
settlement of legal claims and ex-gratia payments; indemnities; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
severance payments; administration; related services; associated non-cash
items.   7,107,340,000       (+ 812,629,000)       720,889,000       (+
78,600,000)     DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH Health and Social Care Pension Scheme A.
For use by the Department of Health on pension scheme benefits to or in
respect of persons engaged in health and social care or other approved
employment; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the
United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; associated non-cash items.   1,687,325,000
(+ 61,057,000)       803,376,000       (+ 45,944,000)     DEPARTMENT FOR
INFRASTRUCTURE A. For use by the Department for Infrastructure on design,
construction and maintenance of roads, bridges, walking and cycling
infrastructure, footpaths, street lighting and car parks; purchase of land,
property, vehicles, ferries, plant, computer software, equipment and stores;
supporting research in the development of new innovative digital solutions;
public liability claims; compensation payments; costs associated with the
decriminalisation of parking enforcement; costs associated with the
enforcement of moving traffic offences; costs associated with residents’
parking improvement; restoration or promotion of the recreational or
navigational use of any waterway; maintenance of designated watercourses and
sea defences; reservoir operational issues including the maintenance of
reservoirs in which the department has an interest; construction and
maintenance of drainage and flood defence structures; protection of drainage
function of all watercourses; implementation of European Union Floods
Directive; emergency response to flooding and Lead Government Department
responsibilities; experimental work under the Drainage Order; enhancing
community resilience to flooding; development of reservoir safety legislation
and support for Drainage Council for Northern Ireland; Flood Risk Planning
consultation advice; protection, restoration and bringing back into active use
the Grade A listed Crumlin Road Gaol and the management of the St Lucia site;
road safety services and promotion; driver licensing, driver and vehicle
testing, transport licensing, enforcement and regulation; issue of Commercial
Bus Service Permits; Application and Licensing Fees for Goods Vehicle
Operators; operation and maintenance of the Strangford Ferry; support for and
grants in respect of the Rathlin Island ferry service and works to Ballycastle
and Rathlin Harbours; support for air and sea ports; support for transport
services including grants in respect of rail and road passenger services
including fare concessions, fuel duty rebate, transport for people with
disabilities, rural transport, shopmobility schemes, provision and maintenance
of bus shelters, purchase of buses and rolling stock and capital works;
environmentally sustainable transport and related infrastructure including
Active School Travel Programme, grants for greenways and active travel and
grants for Blue-Green infrastructure; Ultra Low Emission Vehicle strategies;
energy matters; planning services, support for strategic planning including
grants, planning policy, governance and oversight of planning and plan making
within local councils; transport planning and visioning; payments under
European Union programmes; grants in respect of certain inland waterways;
grant-in-aid to Waterways Ireland; payment of income subsidies, equity
injections, grants and net lending to Northern Ireland Water Limited; the
shareholder and water, flooding, drainage and reservoirs policy functions;
repayment of loans; consultants’ and other fees; expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
administration costs; payments in relation to the holiday pay case; severance
payments; related services including services to other departments; associated
non-cash items.   1,108,976,000       (+120,558,000)       129,662,000
(+18,451,000)     DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE General A. For use by the Department
of Justice on policy development and service improvement; Access to Justice
services; forensic science services; crime and public protection services;
civil and criminal justice including youth justice services; reducing
offending; probation and after-care; state pathology; compensation schemes;
Safer Communities including policing and police pensions; historical
investigations and other legacy costs; implementation of the Stormont House
Agreement and Fresh Start Agreement; search and rescue costs; payments in
relation to proceeds of crime; security costs; expenditure arising from the
Northern Ireland Act 2009; expenditure arising from the Justice Act (NI) 2011;
the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland; the Northern Ireland Policing
Board; Access Northern Ireland; the Northern Ireland Police Fund; Police
Rehabilitation and Retraining Trust; RUC George Cross Foundation; Independent
Assessor of PSNI Recruitment Vetting; prisons, the Parole Commissioners for
Northern Ireland, the Independent Monitoring Boards and the Prisoner
Ombudsman; the Northern Ireland Law Commission; the Northern Ireland Courts
and Tribunals Service including the administration of Tribunals, and costs
relating to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress Board and associated
compensation payments, costs relating to the Victims’ Payments Board and
Troubles Permanent Disablement Payment Scheme, and other functions managed
under Service Level Agreements; the Legal Services Agency Northern Ireland;
Criminal Justice Inspection Northern Ireland; other grants; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
administration costs; settlement of equal pay and holiday pay claims;
severance payments; pension scheme payments; related services; associated non-
cash items.   1,606,313,000       (+16,412,000)       68,039,000
(+10,966,000)     DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Northern Ireland Judicial Pension
Scheme A. For use by the Department of Justice on pension scheme benefits to
or in respect of persons covered by the Northern Ireland Judicial Pension
Scheme; expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; associated non-cash items.   2,100,000
(+500,000)       1,800,000       (+290,000)     THE EXECUTIVE OFFICE A. For
use by The Executive Office on support to the Executive Committee; the North-
South Ministerial Council; the British-Irish Council; the Joint Ministerial
Committee and associated matters; civil contingencies; the Reinvestment and
Reform Initiative; delivery of a Programme for Government, including
supporting the renewal of the NICS of the future; re-establishment of the
economic policy unit; liaison with other bodies, persons and authorities (both
inside and outside Northern Ireland); information services; the legislative
programme; promotion of human rights, equality of opportunity and social
inclusion and the alleviation of disadvantage including in situations of
severe stress, crisis or emergency; work associated with historical clerical
child abuse, Mother and Baby Homes and Magdalene Laundries; the actions and
commitments contained in the Executive’s Good Relations Strategy Together:
Building a United Community including the T:BUC Camps Programme, Planned
Interventions Programme, Central Good Relations Fund and District Councils
Good Relations Programme, the Racial Equality Strategy and actions associated
with the integration of Refugees; the European Union Programme for Peace and
Reconciliation; delivering social change including the associated Executive
Funds; victims and survivors including actions and payments associated with
the preparation and implementation of a Victims Payments Scheme for Permanent
Disablement; actions related to the Historical Institutional Abuse Redress
Board and the Commissioner for Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse
within the Historical Institutional Abuse (NI) Act 2019 including payments to
the designated department under that Act for administrative costs of the
Board, awards of compensation and costs and expenses in connection with
applications and appeals; and other implementation-related actions from the
Hart Report, including a public apology, seeking contributions from
Institutions towards the costs of redress and services for victims and
survivors; implementation of the Stormont House Agreement and the Fresh Start
Agreement; actions associated with the implementation of the New Decade, New
Approach Deal; North West Development Fund; the regeneration of Ebrington;
grant-in-aid to the Strategic Investment Board Limited, the Maze/Long Kesh
Development Corporation, the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments
Commission, the Equality Commission for Northern Ireland, the Commission for
Victims and Survivors for Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland Community
Relations Council, the Victims and Survivors Service Limited, the Commissioner
for Survivors of Institutional Childhood Abuse; expenses of the Attorney
General for Northern Ireland and the Commissioner for Public Appointments for
Northern Ireland; public appointments, including the appointment of the
Commissioner for Children and Young People for Northern Ireland and the
Commissioner for Older People for Northern Ireland; support for the Compact
Civic Advisory Panel; policy on standards in public life; the Commission on
Flags, Identity, Culture and Tradition; promoting the devolved
administration’s interests internationally by supporting the development of
relationships with stakeholders overseas, inward visitors, and representatives
from overseas on devolved matters, supporting international activities of
benefit to NI, including establishing, maintaining and developing the work of
the offices overseas; in particular managing and promoting the devolved
administration’s interests in Europe; policy development in respect of the
devolved administration’s responsibilities and interests in relation to the EU
following the UK’s exit; expenditure on devolved functions that are required
as a result of the international agreements entered into by the United
Kingdom; Governmental response to and recovery from the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; delivery of a strategy to tackle violence against women and girls;
settlement of the NICS equal pay claims; severance payments; associated non-
cash items.   561,085,000       (-23,871,000)       18,543,000
(-4,745,000)     FOOD STANDARDS AGENCY A. For use by the Food Standards Agency
on improving food safety and promoting healthy eating; food safety inspection
and enforcement; incident management; consumer awareness of food safety,
choice and healthy eating options; research; training and education;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration; related services; associated
non-cash items.   13,685,000       (+ 1,580,000)       4,351,000       (+
83,000)     NORTHERN IRELAND ASSEMBLY COMMISSION A. For use by the Northern
Ireland Assembly Commission on remunerating and supporting Members of the
Assembly in discharging their duties in the Assembly, constituencies and
elsewhere; enhancing public awareness and involvement in the working of the
Assembly; hosting events; compensation and severance payments; expenditure on
activities that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the
European Union; administration; response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
related services; associated non-cash items.   48,911,000       (-2,622,000)
740,000       (+110,000)     NORTHERN IRELAND AUDIT OFFICE A. For use by the
Northern Ireland Audit Office on audit and assurance services; promoting
economy, efficiency and effectiveness in the use of public funds and
resources; conducting exercises to assist in fraud prevention and detection;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental response to the
coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration; related services; associated
non-cash items.   7,840,000       (-750,000)       2,730,000       (+190,000)
NORTHERN IRELAND AUTHORITY FOR UTILITY REGULATION A. For use by the Northern
Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation for developing and regulating the
electricity, gas, water and sewerage industries and markets; promoting
competition; protecting consumers; expenditure on activities that are required
as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; Governmental
response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic; administration; related
services; associated non-cash items.   329,000       (-136,000)
11,384,000       (+1,437,000)     NORTHERN IRELAND PUBLIC SERVICES OMBUDSMAN
A. For use by the Northern Ireland Public Services Ombudsman on investigating
complaints of injustice suffered through maladministration by government
departments, statutory agencies, public bodies, local government and health
and social care bodies, general and independent health care providers,
colleges, universities and boards of governors of grant-aided schools;
investigating and adjudicating on complaints on local government ethical
standards against councillors and return of unspent funding; severance
payments; expenditure in response to the coronavirus COVID-19 pandemic;
expenditure on activities that are required as a result of the United
Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; administration; backdated holiday
compensation payments; related services; associated non-cash items.
3,545,000       (-8,000)       96,000       (-30,000)     PUBLIC PROSECUTION
SERVICE FOR NORTHERN IRELAND A. For use by the Public Prosecution Service for
Northern Ireland on the prosecution of offences; legal services; employment of
independent counsel; court costs and costs awarded; payments and services to
other departments and public sector bodies; trainee grants; payments under the
Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; staffing; expenditure on activities
that are required as a result of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European
Union; administration costs; Governmental response to the coronavirus COVID-19
pandemic; settlement of holiday pay claims; settlement of other claims;
severance payments; other related services; associated non-cash items.
40,438,000       (+1,613,000)       401,000       (+320,000)     TOTAL
24,645,707,000 3,176,162,000

Sums granted for the year ending 31 March 2023

Section 4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Amounts of resources authorised for use in the year ending 31 March 2023

Section 6.

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

