Title: Building Safety Act 2022
Date: 2024-11-04
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/30

## Building Safety Act 2022

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament
assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Introduction

#### Overview of Act

1

1.1

This Act has 6 Parts, and contains provisions intended to secure the safety of
people in or about buildings and to improve the standard of buildings.

1.2

Part 2  contains provision about the building safety regulator and its
functions in relation to buildings in England.

1.3

Part 3  amends the Building Act 1984.

1.4

Amendments made by  Part 3 —

1.4.a

provide that the regulator is the building control authority in relation to
higher-risk buildings in England, and

1.4.b

require the regulator (for England) and the Welsh Ministers (for Wales) to
establish and maintain registers of building control approvers and building
inspectors.

1.5

Part 4  is about occupied higher-risk buildings in England, and imposes duties
on accountable persons.

1.6

Part 5  contains further provisions, including—

1.6.a

provisions about remediation and redress;

1.6.b

provision requiring a new homes ombudsman scheme to be established;

1.6.c

powers to make provision about construction products;

1.6.d

further provision about fire safety;

1.6.e

provision about the regulation of architects;

1.6.f

provision about housing complaints.

1.7

Part 6  contains general provisions.

### The regulator and its functions

#### The regulator and its general functions

##### The building safety regulator

2

2.1

In  this Part  “ the regulator ” means the Health and Safety Executive.

2.2

Schedule 1  contains amendments of provisions of the Health and Safety at Work
etc Act 1974 that relate to the regulator.

##### The regulator: objectives and regulatory principles

3

3.1

The regulator must exercise its building functions with a view to—

3.1.a

securing the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks
arising from buildings, and

3.1.b

improving the standard of buildings.

3.2

In exercising a building function (other than an excepted function), the
regulator must have regard to the following principles—

3.2.a

regulatory activities should be carried out in a way which is transparent,
accountable, proportionate and consistent, and

3.2.b

regulatory activities should be targeted only at cases in which action is
needed.

3.3

The duty in  subsection (2)  is subject to any other requirement affecting the
exercise of the function.

3.4

In  subsection (2)  “ excepted function ” means—

3.4.a

a function under any of sections 4 to 6, or

3.4.b

a function of the regulator under the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974
so far as relating to any such function.

3.5

In  this Part  “ building function ” means—

3.5.a

any function of the regulator under, or under an instrument made under, this
Act or the Building Act 1984;

3.5.b

any prescribed function of the regulator;

3.5.c

any function of the regulator under the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974
so far as relating to a function within  paragraph (a)  or  (b) .

##### Duty to facilitate building safety: higher-risk buildings

4

4.1

The regulator must provide such assistance and encouragement to relevant
persons as it considers appropriate with a view to facilitating their securing
the safety of people in or about higher-risk buildings in relation to building
safety risks as regards those buildings.

4.2

The assistance and encouragement that must be provided under subsection  (1)
includes, in particular, assistance and encouragement with a view to
facilitating securing the safety of disabled people in or about higher-risk
buildings in relation to building safety risks as regards those buildings.

4.3

For this purpose “ relevant persons ” means—

4.3.a

residents of higher-risk buildings within the meaning of  Part 4 ,

4.3.b

owners of residential units in such buildings,

4.3.c

persons who are accountable persons within the meaning of  Part 4 , and

4.3.d

persons upon whom duties are imposed by virtue of paragraph 5B of Schedule 1
to the Building Act 1984 (dutyholders).

4.4

In subsections  (1)  and  (2) —

“ building safety risk ” has the meaning given by section 62; “ disabled ”:
see section 30; “ higher-risk building ” means— a higher-risk building within
the meaning of  Part 4  (see section 65), or a higher-risk building within the
meaning of the Building Act 1984.

4.5

Parts 3  and  4  confer further functions on the regulator in relation to
higher-risk buildings.

##### Duty to keep safety and standard of buildings under review

5

The regulator must keep under review—

5.a

the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks as regards
buildings, and

5.b

the standard of buildings.

##### Facilitating improvement in competence of industry and building inspectors

6

6.1

The regulator must provide such assistance and encouragement as it considers
appropriate to—

6.1.a

persons in the built environment industry, and

6.1.b

registered building inspectors,

with a view to facilitating their improving the competence of persons in that
industry or members of that profession (as the case may be).

6.2

For the meaning of “the built environment industry” and “registered building
inspector” see section 30.

##### Proposals and consultation relating to regulations

7

7.1

This section applies to regulations under—

7.1.a

this Part , or

7.1.b

any provision of  Part 4  except section 62, 65 or 68.

7.2

The regulator may at any time make proposals to the Secretary of State for the
making of regulations.

7.3

Before making a proposal, the regulator must consult such persons as it
considers appropriate.

7.4

Before making regulations, other than regulations proposed by the regulator,
the Secretary of State must consult—

7.4.a

the regulator, and

7.4.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

##### Duty to establish system for giving of building safety information

8

8.1

The regulator must make arrangements for a person to establish and operate a
voluntary occurrence reporting system.

8.2

A “voluntary occurrence reporting system” is a system to facilitate the
voluntary giving of information about building safety to the person who
operates the system.

#### Committees

##### Building Advisory Committee

9

9.1

The regulator must exercise its powers under section 11A(3) of the Health and
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 to establish and maintain a committee to be known
as the Building Advisory Committee, with the following function.

9.2

That function is to give advice and information to the regulator about matters
connected with any of the regulator’s building functions except its functions
relating to the competence of—

9.2.a

persons in the built environment industry, and

9.2.b

registered building inspectors.

9.3

The Building Regulations Advisory Committee for England, established under
section 14 of the Building Act 1984, is abolished.

##### Committee on industry competence

10

10.1

The regulator must exercise its powers under section 11A(3) of the Health and
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 to establish and maintain a committee concerned
with the competence of persons in the built environment industry (“industry
competence”), with the following functions (and any other function that the
regulator considers appropriate).

10.2

The functions are—

10.2.a

monitoring industry competence;

10.2.b

advising the regulator in relation to industry competence;

10.2.c

advising persons in the built environment industry in relation to industry
competence;

10.2.d

facilitating persons in the built environment industry to improve industry
competence;

10.2.e

providing guidance to the public (or a section of the public) about ways of
assessing the competence of persons in the built environment industry;

10.2.f

carrying out analysis and research in connection with a function mentioned in
any of  paragraphs (a)  to  (e) .

##### Residents’ panel

11

11.1

The regulator must exercise its powers under section 11A(3) of the Health and
Safety at Work etc Act 1974 to establish and maintain a committee with the
functions mentioned in this section (and any other function that the regulator
considers appropriate).

11.2

The committee is to consist of—

11.2.a

such residents of higher-risk buildings as the regulator considers
appropriate, and

11.2.b

such relevant persons (if any) as it considers appropriate.

11.3

The regulator must take all reasonable steps to ensure that the committee
includes—

11.3.a

one or more residents of a higher-risk building who are disabled,

11.3.b

a body that represents, supports or promotes the interests of any description
of disabled people that includes residents of higher-risk buildings, or

11.3.c

a member of a body within paragraph  (b) .

11.4

The committee is to give advice to the regulator about such matters connected
with the regulator’s building functions and relating to higher-risk buildings
as the regulator may specify.

11.5

The regulator must consult the committee before issuing or revising any of the
following—

11.5.a

guidance to residents of higher-risk buildings about any of their rights or
obligations under  Part 4  or regulations made under that Part;

11.5.b

guidance relating to any duty under regulations made under section 89 to give
information or documents to residents of higher-risk buildings or owners of
residential units in such buildings;

11.5.c

guidance relating to any of sections 91 to 93 or 95 or regulations made under
any of those sections (engagement with residents etc, and residents’ duties).

11.6

If the committee has not been established at a time when the regulator has
prepared guidance to which  subsection (5)  applies—

11.6.a

that subsection has effect as if it did not require the committee to be
consulted before the guidance is issued, and

11.6.b

the committee must be consulted in relation to the issued guidance as soon as
reasonably practicable.

11.7

See also—

11.7.a

section 17 (3)  (duty to consult committee about regulator’s strategic plan);

11.7.b

section 94 (2)  (duty to consult committee about regulator’s complaints
system).

11.8

In this section—

                                    “ higher-risk building ” has the same
meaning as in  Part 4  (see section 65);
“ relevant person ” means—
an owner of a residential unit in a higher-risk building,
a body that represents, supports or promotes—
the interests of any description of residents of higher-risk buildings or
owners of residential units in such buildings, or
the interests of any description of persons that includes a description of
such residents or owners, or
a member of a body within paragraph (b).

##### Committees: power to amend or repeal

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend or repeal any of  sections 9
to 11  (provision about specific committees).

12.2

But regulations repealing section 9, 10 or 11 may be made only if the
regulator has made a proposal to the Secretary of State for the making of such
regulations (as to which see section 7(2)).

12.3

Regulations under this section may make consequential amendments of this Act.

#### Staffing etc

##### Local authorities and fire and rescue authorities: assistance etc to regulator

13

13.1

A relevant authority may at the request of the regulator do anything for the
purpose of—

13.1.a

facilitating the exercise by the regulator of a relevant function, or

13.1.b

enabling the relevant authority to facilitate the exercise by the regulator of
a relevant function.

13.2

The regulator may, for a purpose mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of
subsection (1) , direct a relevant authority to do anything specified in the
direction.

13.3

The direction may specify the way in which, and the time by which, the thing
is to be done.

13.4

A direction—

13.4.a

may be given only if the regulator considers that it is expedient for the
authority to do the specified thing, and

13.4.b

must state how, in the regulator’s opinion, the doing of the thing will
facilitate the exercise of a relevant function or enable the authority to
facilitate that exercise.

13.5

A direction may be given only with the consent of the Secretary of State.

13.6

Before giving a direction, the regulator must—

13.6.a

make a written request under  subsection (1)  for the authority to do the
thing, and

13.6.b

have regard to any written representations made by the authority in the period
specified in the request.

13.7

A request under  subsection (6) (a)  must—

13.7.a

state that the regulator may seek consent to give a direction under this
section if the request is not complied with,

13.7.b

state how, in the regulator’s opinion, the doing of the thing will facilitate
the exercise of a relevant function or enable the authority to facilitate that
exercise, and

13.7.c

specify a reasonable period for the authority to make any representations as
to why it should not do the thing requested.

13.8

In this section—

                                    “ relevant authority ” means a local
authority or fire and rescue authority;
“ relevant function ” means—
a function of the regulator relating to—
the regulation of higher-risk buildings (within the meaning of the Building
Act 1984 or  Part 4  of this Act), or
higher-risk building work (as defined by  section 91ZA  of the Building Act
1984), or
in the case of a local authority, a function of the regulator relating to the
regulation of any work for which the regulator is the building control
authority by virtue of  section 91ZB  of the Building Act 1984.

13.9

A direction or consent under this section must be in writing.

##### FSO authorised persons: assistance etc to regulator

14

14.1

An FSO authorised person may at the request of the regulator do anything for
the purpose of—

14.1.a

facilitating the exercise by the regulator of a relevant function, or

14.1.b

enabling FSO authorised persons to facilitate the exercise by the regulator of
a relevant function.

14.2

In this section—

                                    “ FSO authorised person ” means a person
authorised as mentioned in article 25(1)(e) of the Regulatory Reform (Fire
Safety) Order 2005;
“ relevant function ” means a function of the regulator relating to—
the regulation of higher-risk buildings (within the meaning of the Building
Act 1984 or  Part 4  of this Act), or
higher-risk building work (as defined by  section 91ZA  of the Building Act
1984).

##### Provision of assistance etc: supplementary

15

15.1

This section supplements sections 13 and 14.

15.2

A relevant authority must ensure that any of its staff involved in providing
relevant assistance to the regulator have the appropriate skills, knowledge,
experience and behaviours.

15.3

For this purpose “ relevant assistance ” means anything done by the authority
pursuant to a request or direction, for the purpose of facilitating the
exercise by the regulator of a relevant function.

15.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
reimbursement by the regulator of expenditure incurred by relevant authorities
in complying with requests or directions.

15.5

The Secretary of State may pay a relevant authority such amount as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate in respect of things done by the
relevant authority in complying with a request or direction.

15.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision in relation
to requests and directions, including in particular provision about—

15.6.a

things done by a relevant authority in connection with a request or direction;

15.6.b

things done by an FSO authorised person in connection with a request.

15.7

In this section—

                                    “ direction ” means a direction given
under section 13;
“ FSO authorised person ” has the meaning given by section 14;
“ relevant authority ” has the meaning given by section 13;
“ relevant function ” has the meaning given by section 13;
“ request ” means a request made under section 13 or 14.

##### Guidance about the provision of assistance

16

16.1

The regulator may issue guidance to—

16.1.a

relevant authorities about their functions under section 13;

16.1.b

FSO authorised persons about their functions under section 14.

16.2

The regulator may revise or withdraw any issued guidance.

16.3

A relevant authority must have regard to any guidance under this section when
exercising its functions under section 13.

16.4

An FSO authorised person must have regard to any guidance under this section
when exercising their functions under section 14.

16.5

Guidance under this section may be issued, revised or withdrawn only with the
consent of the Secretary of State.

16.6

In this section—

                                    “ FSO authorised person ” has the meaning
given by section 14;
“ relevant authority ” has the meaning given by section 13.

#### Plans and reports

##### Strategic plan

17

17.1

The regulator must—

17.1.a

prepare a strategic plan, and

17.1.b

submit it to the Secretary of State for approval.

17.2

A “strategic plan” is a plan setting out how the regulator proposes to carry
out its building functions in the period to which the plan relates.

17.3

Before submitting it, the regulator must consult—

17.3.a

the committee mentioned in section 11 (residents’ panel), and

17.3.b

such other persons as the regulator considers appropriate.

17.4

The Secretary of State may approve the plan, with or without modifications.

17.5

Before approving the plan with modifications, the Secretary of State must
consult the regulator.

17.6

The regulator must publish the approved plan, and act in accordance with it.

17.7

The first plan—

17.7.a

must be submitted as soon as reasonably practicable after this section comes
into force, and

17.7.b

must relate to a period ending with the third 31 March to occur after the day
on which it is submitted.

17.8

If the committee mentioned in section 11 has not been established at the time
the first plan is prepared—

17.8.a

subsection (3)  has effect as if it did not require the committee to be
consulted before the plan is submitted, and

17.8.b

the committee must be consulted in relation to the first approved plan as soon
as reasonably practicable.

17.9

Any other plan—

17.9.a

must be submitted before the end of the period to which the most recent
approved plan relates (“ the current period ”), and

17.9.b

must relate to the period of three years, or such other period as the
Secretary of State and the regulator may agree, beginning immediately after
the end of the current period.

##### Revised strategic plans

18

18.1

This section supplements section 17.

18.2

The regulator may at any time in the period to which a plan relates—

18.2.a

prepare a revised plan relating to the remainder of that period (or to such
other period as the Secretary of State and the regulator may agree), and

18.2.b

submit it to the Secretary of State for approval.

18.3

The Secretary of State may at any time during the period to which a plan
relates require the regulator to submit a revised plan for approval.

18.4

Where such a requirement is made, the revised plan—

18.4.a

must be submitted as soon as reasonably practicable, and

18.4.b

must relate to the remainder of the period to which the current plan relates
(or to such other period as the Secretary of State and the regulator may
agree).

18.5

Section 17 (3)  to  (6)  apply in relation to a revised plan.

18.6

If approved, the revised plan replaces the current plan.

18.7

In this section—

“ current plan ” means the first plan mentioned in  subsection (2)  or  (3)
(as the case may be); “ plan ” means a strategic plan as defined by section
17.

##### Annual report about information provided under mandatory reporting requirements

19

19.1

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year, the
regulator must prepare and publish a report about the information provided to
it during that year pursuant to the mandatory reporting requirements.

19.2

For this purpose, information is provided pursuant to the “mandatory reporting
requirements” if it is provided under—

19.2.a

section 87 (duty of accountable person to report to regulator), or

19.2.b

any provision of building regulations that is prescribed by the regulations
for the purposes of this section.

19.3

A report under this section must not contain personal data.

##### Statement of regulator’s engagement with residents etc

20

20.1

The regulator must, at least once each financial year, publish a statement
about its engagement with—

20.1.a

the committee mentioned in section 11 (residents’ panel),

20.1.b

residents of higher-risk buildings,

20.1.c

owners of residential units in higher-risk buildings, and

20.1.d

bodies that represent, support or promote—

20.1.d.i

the interests of any description of residents of higher-risk buildings or
owners of residential units in such buildings, or

20.1.d.ii

the interests of persons including any description of such residents or
owners.

20.2

A statement under subsection  (1)  must, in particular, include information
about the regulator’s engagement with residents of higher-risk buildings who
are disabled.

20.3

A statement under  subsection (1)  may be published by including it in the
regulator’s annual report.

20.4

In this section—

“ annual report ” means the report made under paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 2 to
the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974; “ higher-risk building ” means— a
higher-risk building within the meaning of Part 4, or a higher-risk building
within the meaning of the Building Act 1984.

##### Report on certain safety-related matters

21

21.1

Before the end of the period of three years beginning when this section comes
into force, the regulator must—

21.1.a

carry out a cost-benefit analysis of making regular inspections of, and
testing and reporting on, the condition of electrical installations in
relevant buildings;

21.1.b

consider what further provision under the Building Act 1984, or in guidance
under that Act, may be made about—

21.1.b.i

stairs and ramps in relevant buildings,

21.1.b.ii

emergency egress of disabled persons from relevant buildings, and

21.1.b.iii

automatic water fire suppression systems in relevant buildings,

with a view to improving the safety of persons in or about relevant buildings,
and carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the making of that provision.

21.2

Before the end of that period, the regulator must—

21.2.a

prepare one or more reports about the analysis mentioned in subsection (1)
(which may also contain recommendations), and

21.2.b

give them to the Secretary of State.

21.3

The Secretary of State must publish any report received under subsection (2).

21.4

In this section “ cost-benefit analysis ” means—

21.4.a

an analysis of the costs together with an analysis of the benefits that will
arise if the things mentioned in subsection (1)(a) are done or the provision
mentioned in subsection (1)(b) is made, and

21.4.b

an estimate of those costs and of those benefits (subject to subsection (5)).

21.5

If, in the opinion of the regulator—

21.5.a

the costs or benefits cannot reasonably be estimated, or

21.5.b

it is not reasonably practicable to produce an estimate,

the cost-benefit analysis need not estimate them, but must include a statement
of the regulator’s opinion and an explanation of it.

21.6

In this section—

“ electrical installation ” means fixed electrical cables or fixed electrical
equipment located on the consumer’s side of the electricity supply meter; “
relevant building ” means a residential building or any other kind of building
that the regulator considers appropriate.

#### Enforcement

##### Authorised officers

22

22.1

The regulator may authorise a person in relation to specified paragraphs of
Schedule 2  (investigatory powers), for the purposes of any specified relevant
building function.

22.2

A person may be authorised in relation to a paragraph of  the Schedule  only
if they appear to the regulator to be suitably qualified to exercise any power
conferred by virtue of that paragraph or do anything else mentioned in that
paragraph.

22.3

An authorisation—

22.3.a

must be in writing;

22.3.b

may be varied or revoked by an instrument in writing.

22.4

When exercising or seeking to exercise a power conferred by virtue of
Schedule 2 , an authorised officer must if asked produce the authorisation
(including any instrument varying it) or a duly authenticated copy.

22.5

In this section—

                                    “ authorised officer ” means a person in
respect of whom an authorisation under this section is in force;
“ relevant building function ” means any function of the regulator under, or
under an instrument made under—
Part 4  of this Act (higher-risk buildings), or
the Building Act 1984;
“ specified ” means specified in the authorisation.

##### Authorised officers: offences

23

23.1

A person who intentionally obstructs a person who is an authorised officer
exercising a relevant building function commits an offence.

23.2

A person who, with intent to deceive, impersonates an authorised officer
commits an offence.

23.3

In this section—

                                    “ authorised officer ” means a person in
respect of whom an authorisation under section 22 is in force;
“ relevant building function ” has the meaning given by that section.

23.4

A person guilty of an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

23.5

A person guilty of an offence under  subsection (2)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

##### Provision of false or misleading information to regulator

24

24.1

A person commits an offence if they provide false or misleading information to
the regulator—

24.1.a

in purported compliance with a building enactment or a requirement imposed by
virtue of such an enactment,

24.1.b

in connection with an application made to the regulator under a building
enactment, or

24.1.c

for the purpose of avoiding enforcement action being taken or continued,

and the person knows that, or is reckless as to whether, the information is
false or misleading.

24.2

In this section—

                                    “ building enactment ” means any provision
of, or of an instrument made under—
Part 2  or  4  of this Act, or
the Building Act 1984;
“ enforcement action ” means action taken with a view to, or in connection
with—
securing compliance with a building enactment or a requirement imposed by
virtue of such an enactment, or
the imposition of a sanction in respect of a contravention of any such
enactment or requirement.

24.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

24.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

24.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

#### Reviews and appeals

##### Review by regulator of certain decisions made by it

25

25.1

This section applies in relation to a prescribed decision of the regulator.

25.2

A prescribed person may, before the end of a period prescribed for the
purposes of this subsection, give a notice to the regulator requiring it to
carry out a review of the decision in accordance with this section.

25.3

A notice under  subsection (2)  must—

25.3.a

contain prescribed information,

25.3.b

be in the prescribed form, and

25.3.c

be given in the prescribed way.

25.4

The nature and extent of the review are to be such as appear to the regulator
to be appropriate in the circumstances.

25.5

The review must take account of any representations made, or information
given, by the person at a stage which gives the regulator a reasonable
opportunity to consider the representations or information (and may take
account of any other information).

25.6

On the conclusion of the review the regulator must either uphold or vary the
decision.

25.7

The regulator must notify the person of the outcome of the review and its
reasoning before the end of a period prescribed for the purposes of this
subsection or such other period as may be agreed in writing (“ the relevant
period ”).

25.8

Where the regulator is required to undertake a review but does not notify the
person by the end of the relevant period—

25.8.a

the review is treated as having concluded at the end of that period, and the
regulator is treated as having upheld the decision, and

25.8.b

the regulator must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the end of that
period, notify the person of that fact.

25.9

The decisions that may be prescribed under  subsection (1)  are any decisions
of the regulator under, or under an instrument made under, this Act or the
Building Act 1984 except—

25.9.a

a decision made on an appeal to the regulator, or

25.9.b

a decision to do any of the following—

25.9.b.i

give a compliance notice under section 99 of this Act;

25.9.b.ii

give a notice under section 35B, 35C or 36 of the Building Act 1984 (notices
in respect of contraventions of building regulations etc);

25.9.b.iii

make a disciplinary order under  section 58I  or  58U , or an order under
section 58J  or  58V , of that Act (misconduct of registered building
inspector or building control approver);

25.9.b.iv

give a notice under  section 58Z4  or  58Z5 , or act under  section 58Z6  or
58Z7 , of that Act (contravention of operational standards rules).

##### Right of appeal: requirement for review before appeal

26

26.1

This section applies to a right of appeal against a decision of a kind
prescribed under  subsection (1)  of section 25.

26.2

The right of appeal may be exercised only if the decision has been reviewed
under that section.

26.3

If on the conclusion of the review the decision is varied, the right of appeal
is in respect of the decision as varied (and not the original decision).

26.4

For the purpose of any time limit as regards the exercise of the right of
appeal—

26.4.a

the decision is treated as made on the day on which the review concludes, and

26.4.b

a person is treated as notified of the decision on the day on which they are
notified of the outcome of the review.

#### Supplementary and general

##### Cooperation and information sharing

27

27.1

Schedule 3 —

27.1.a

imposes duties of cooperation on the regulator and other persons, and

27.1.b

confers powers to share information on the regulator and other persons.

27.2

Except as provided by  subsection (3) , the disclosure of information under
Schedule 3  does not breach—

27.2.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

27.2.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

27.3

Schedule 3  does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by the
Schedule).

##### Fees and charges

28

28.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising the
regulator—

28.1.a

to charge fees, and

28.1.b

to recover charges,

for or in connection with the performance of a relevant function.

28.2

The regulations may—

28.2.a

prescribe a fee or charge, or

28.2.b

provide for the amount of a fee or charge to be determined by the regulator in
accordance with the regulations.

28.3

The regulations may in particular—

28.3.a

provide that the amount of any charge is to be determined by the regulator in
accordance with a scheme made and published by it, and

28.3.b

make provision about such schemes, including the principles to be embodied in
such schemes.

28.4

The regulations may make provision about the effect of failing to pay a fee or
charge in accordance with the regulations.

28.5

In this section “ relevant function ” means —

28.5.a

any function of the regulator under, or under regulations made under,  this
Part  or  Part 4 , or

28.5.b

any function of the regulator under the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974
that is a building function.

28.6

The regulator may—

28.6.a

with the consent of the Secretary of State, provide services to a person in
connection with any matter relating to buildings;

28.6.b

charge fees for such services at a rate agreed with the person.

28.7

Nothing in  subsection (6)  limits any other power of the regulator to charge
for a service provided by it.

##### Service of documents

29

29.1

This section applies to a document required or authorised under this Part or
Part 4 , or regulations under either Part, to be given to a person; but this
is subject to  subsection (11) .

29.2

The document may be given by—

29.2.a

delivering it by hand to the person,

29.2.b

leaving it at the person’s proper address,

29.2.c

sending it by post to the person at their proper address, or

29.2.d

sending it by email to an electronic address at which the person has agreed to
receive documents or has agreed to receive the document.

29.3

The document may—

29.3.a

in the case of a body corporate, be given in accordance with  subsection (2)
to an officer of the body;

29.3.b

in the case of a partnership, be given in accordance with  subsection (2)  to
a partner.

29.4

For the purposes of this section, the “proper address” of a person (except an
authorised officer of the regulator) is—

29.4.a

in the case of a document to be given by or on behalf of the regulator to a
person who has provided an address for service to the regulator, that address;

29.4.b

subject to that—

29.4.b.i

in the case of a body corporate (including a document given to an officer of
the body), the address of its registered or principal office;

29.4.b.ii

in the case of a partnership (including a document given to a partner), the
address of its principal office;

29.4.b.iii

in the case of any other person, their last known address.

29.5

For the purposes of this section, the “proper address” of an authorised
officer of the regulator is—

29.5.a

the address specified by the officer, or

29.5.b

if no address is specified, the address of the regulator’s principal office.

29.6

If—

29.6.a

the document is to be given to the person as the owner of any premises, a
resident of any premises, or the accountable person of a higher-risk building,
and

29.6.b

the person’s name and proper address is not known, despite reasonable steps
having been taken to ascertain it,

the document may be given by addressing it to the owner or resident of the
premises (naming the premises) or the accountable person of the building
(naming the building) and fixing it to a conspicuous part of the premises or
building.

29.7

A document left as mentioned in  subsection (2) (b)  is treated as given when
it was left.

29.8

A document sent as mentioned in  subsection (2) (c)  is treated as given 48
hours after it was sent, unless the contrary is proved.

29.9

A document sent as mentioned in  subsection (2) (d)  is treated as given 24
hours after it was sent, unless the contrary is proved.

29.10

A document fixed as mentioned in  subsection (6)  is treated as given 48 hours
after it was fixed.

29.11

This section does not apply to the giving of a document for which other
provision is made by or under this Part or  Part 4 .

29.12

In this section—

                                    “ accountable person ” has the same
meaning as in  Part 4  (see section 72);
“ agreed ” means agreed in writing;
“ authorised officer ” means a person in respect of whom an authorisation
under section 22 is in force;
“ giving ”: references to giving include similar expressions (such as
serving);
“ specified ” means specified in writing.

##### Interpretation of 

30

30.1

In  this Part —

                                    “ building ” (except in section 28 (6) )
means any permanent or temporary building in England except a building of a
prescribed description;
“ building function ” has the meaning given by section 3;
“ the built environment industry ” means—
persons carrying on, for business purposes, activities connected with the
design, construction, management or maintenance of buildings, and
employees of such persons;
and references to a person “in” the industry are to any such person or
employee;
“ contravention ” includes a failure to comply;
“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);
“ disabled ”: a person is disabled if the person has a physical or mental
impairment which has a substantial and long-term adverse effect on the
person’s ability to carry out normal day-to-day activities;
“ financial year ” means a year ending with 31 March;
“ fire and rescue authority ” means a fire and rescue authority, within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004, for an area in
England;
“ local authority ” means—
a district council or relevant unitary authority,
a London borough council,
the Common Council of the City of London,
the Sub-Treasurer of the Inner Temple,
the Under Treasurer of the Middle Temple, or
the Council of the Isles of Scilly;
“ maximum summary term for either-way offences ”, with reference to
imprisonment for an offence, means—
if the offence is committed before the time when paragraph 24(2) of Schedule
22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 comes into force, 6 months;
if the offence is committed after that time, 12 months;
“ owner ” has the meaning given by section 115;
“ personal data ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018;
“ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State;
“ registered building inspector ” has the meaning given by section 58A of the
Building Act 1984;
“ the regulator ” has the meaning given by section 2;
“ resident ” and “resident of a higher-risk building” have the same meaning as
in Part 4 (see section 71 (3)  and  (4) (c) );
“ residential unit ” means—
a dwelling, or
any other unit of living accommodation;
“ standard ”: any reference to the standard of a building is to its standard
from a technical perspective.

30.2

In  subsection (1) , in the definition of “local authority”, “ relevant
unitary authority ” means a council for a county in England so far as it is
the council for an area for which there are no district councils.

30.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that in any prescribed
provision of  this Part  a reference to a building includes any of the
following—

30.3.a

any other structure or erection of any kind (whether temporary or permanent);

30.3.b

any vehicle, vessel or other movable object of any kind, in such circumstances
as may be prescribed.

### Building Act 1984

#### Building control authorities and building regulations

##### Higher-risk buildings etc

31

In the Building Act 1984 after  section 120C  (inserted by  Schedule 5 )
insert—

######### Higher-risk buildings etc

########## Meaning of “higher-risk building”: England

31.120D

31.120D.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to
England.

31.120D.2

“ Higher-risk building ” means a building in England that—

31.120D.2.a

is at least 18 metres in height or has at least 7 storeys, and

31.120D.2.b

is of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

31.120D.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision supplementing this
section.

31.120D.4

The regulations may in particular—

31.120D.4.a

define “building” or “ storey ” for the purposes of this section;

31.120D.4.b

make provision about how the height of a building is to be determined for
those purposes;

31.120D.4.c

provide that “ higher-risk building ” does not include a building of a
specified description.

31.120D.5

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (4) (a)  may in particular define
“building” so as to provide that it includes—

31.120D.5.a

any other structure or erection of any kind (whether temporary or permanent);

31.120D.5.b

any vehicle, vessel or other movable object of any kind, in such circumstances
as may be specified.

31.120D.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section (other than
subsection (1)  or  (3)  or this subsection).

31.120D.7

For the meaning of “higher-risk building work” see section  91ZA .

########## Regulations under 

31.120E

31.120E.1

Before making regulations under  section 120D , the Secretary of State must
consult—

31.120E.1.a

the regulator, and

31.120E.1.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

31.120E.2

But the regulator need not be consulted if—

31.120E.2.a

the regulations give effect to a recommendation made by the regulator under
section 120G , or

31.120E.2.b

the Secretary of State has under  section 120H  asked the regulator for advice
about the description of building in question.

########## Regulations under 

31.120F

31.120F.1

This section applies if the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations
under  section 120D  that would result in a description of building (including
anything within  subsection (5)  of that section) becoming a higher-risk
building for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to England.

31.120F.2

The Secretary of State must ask the regulator under  section 120H (1)  for
advice about the description of building, except where the regulations would
give effect to a recommendation under  section 120G (2) .

31.120F.3

The Secretary of State must carry out a cost-benefit analysis and publish it.

31.120F.4

In this section “ cost-benefit analysis ” means—

31.120F.4.a

an analysis of the costs together with an analysis of the benefits that will
arise if the regulations are made, and

31.120F.4.b

an estimate of those costs and of those benefits (subject to  subsection (5)
).

31.120F.5

If, in the opinion of the Secretary of State—

31.120F.5.a

the costs or benefits cannot reasonably be estimated, or

31.120F.5.b

it is not reasonably practicable to produce an estimate,

the cost-benefit analysis need not estimate them, but must include a statement
of the Secretary of State’s opinion and an explanation for it.

########## Recommendations about regulations under 

31.120G

31.120G.1

Subsection (2)  applies if, in respect of any description of building that is
not a higher-risk building, the regulator considers—

31.120G.1.a

that a building safety risk is greater for that description of buildings than
it is for buildings that are not of that description,

31.120G.1.b

that if the risk materialised as regards a building of that description it
would have the potential to cause a major incident, and

31.120G.1.c

that buildings of that description should be higher-risk buildings for the
purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to England.

31.120G.2

The regulator must—

31.120G.2.a

recommend to the Secretary of State that buildings of that description should
be higher-risk buildings for the purposes of this Act, and

31.120G.2.b

give the Secretary of State a statement of its assessment of the issues it
considered when deciding to make the recommendation.

31.120G.3

If, following a recommendation, the Secretary of State decides not to make
regulations under  section 120D  giving effect to the recommendation, the
Secretary of State must publish a document setting out—

31.120G.3.a

the regulator’s recommendation,

31.120G.3.b

the Secretary of State’s decision not to make the regulations, and

31.120G.3.c

the reasons for that decision.

31.120G.4

If the regulator considers that a particular description of higher-risk
building should cease to be a higher-risk building for the purposes of this
Act as it applies in relation to England, it must make a recommendation to the
Secretary of State to that effect.

31.120G.5

In this section—

“ building safety risk ” means a risk to the safety of people in or about a
building arising from any of the following occurring as regards the building—
the spread of fire; structural failure; any other matter prescribed by
regulations under section 62 of the Building Safety Act 2022 in relation to
all buildings, or in relation to a description of building that includes the
building; “ major incident ” means an incident resulting in— a significant
number of deaths, or serious injury to a significant number of people.

########## Advice about regulations under 

31.120H

31.120H.1

Subsections (2)  to  (5)  apply if the Secretary of State asks the regulator
for advice as to whether a specified description of building should be a
higher-risk building for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to
England.

31.120H.2

The regulator must consider whether the following conditions are met—

31.120H.2.a

the first condition is that a building safety risk is greater for that
description of buildings than it is for buildings that are not of that
description;

31.120H.2.b

the second condition is that, if the risk materialised as regards a building
of that description, it would have the potential to cause a major incident;

31.120H.2.c

the third condition is that buildings of that description should be higher-
risk buildings for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to
England.

31.120H.3

The regulator must—

31.120H.3.a

if the conditions mentioned in  subsection (2)  are met, recommend to the
Secretary of State that buildings of that description should be higher-risk
buildings for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to England;

31.120H.3.b

otherwise, recommend to the Secretary of State that buildings of that
description should not be higher-risk buildings for those purposes.

31.120H.4

The regulator must give the Secretary of State a statement of its assessment
of the issues it considered in relation to the recommendation under
subsection (3) .

31.120H.5

If, following a recommendation under  subsection (3) (a) , the Secretary of
State decides not to make regulations under  section 120D  giving effect to
the recommendation, the Secretary of State must publish a document setting
out—

31.120H.5.a

the regulator’s recommendation,

31.120H.5.b

the Secretary of State’s decision not to make the regulations, and

31.120H.5.c

the reasons for that decision.

31.120H.6

If requested, the regulator must provide advice to the Secretary of State as
to whether a specified description of building should cease to be a higher-
risk building for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to
England.

31.120H.7

In this section—

“ building safety risk ” has the meaning given by  section 120G ; “ major
incident ” has the meaning given by that section; “ specified ” means
specified in the request.

########## Higher-risk buildings and higher-risk building work: Wales

31.120I

31.120I.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act as it applies in relation to
Wales.

31.120I.2

“ Higher-risk building ” means a building of a description specified in
regulations made by the Welsh Ministers.

31.120I.3

“ Higher-risk building work ” means any work relating to a higher-risk
building or a proposed higher-risk building, including—

31.120I.3.a

any work relating to a building that is not a higher-risk building that causes
it to become such a building, and

31.120I.3.b

any work relating to a higher-risk building that causes it to cease to be such
a building.

31.120I.4

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations define “ building ” for the purposes of
this section.

31.120I.5

The regulations may in particular provide that “ building ” includes—

31.120I.5.a

any other structure or erection of any kind (whether temporary or permanent);

31.120I.5.b

any vehicle, vessel or other movable object of any kind, in such circumstances
as may be specified.

##### Building control authorities

32

32.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

32.2

In section 91—

32.2.a

in subsection (1) before paragraph (a) insert—

32.2.a.za

subsection (3)  of this section and regulations under  section 91ZD ,

;

32.2.b

in subsection (2) for the words from “sections” to the end substitute

—

32.2.b.a

subsection (3)  of this section,

32.2.b.b

sections 5(3), 48(1) and 53(2), and

32.2.b.c

regulations under section  91ZD .

;

32.2.c

after that subsection insert—

32.2.c.3

In cases where section  91ZA  or  91ZB  provides that the regulator is the
building control authority, it is the duty of the regulator (and not the local
authority in question)—

32.2.c.3.a

to carry Part 1 of this Act into execution, and

32.2.c.3.b

to enforce building regulations.

;

32.2.d

in the heading at the end insert  “and the regulator” .

32.3

After that section insert—

########### The regulator: building control authority for higher-risk buildings in England

32.3.91ZA

32.3.91ZA.1

The regulator is the building control authority in relation to any higher-risk
building in England or any proposed such building.

32.3.91ZA.2

This includes the regulator being the building control authority as regards—

32.3.91ZA.2.a

any work relating to a building in England that is not a higher-risk building
that causes it to become such a building, and

32.3.91ZA.2.b

any work relating to a higher-risk building in England that causes it to cease
to be such a building.

32.3.91ZA.3

In this Act “ higher-risk building work ”, in relation to England, means any
work for which the regulator is the building control authority by virtue of
this section.

32.3.91ZA.4

For the meaning of “higher-risk building” see  section 120D .

########### The regulator: building control authority for other work

32.3.91ZB

32.3.91ZB.1

This section applies in relation to work of a prescribed description (“the
work”) that is to be carried out in England and has a prescribed connection
with any higher-risk building work.

32.3.91ZB.2

Where—

32.3.91ZB.2.a

the regulator and the person intending to carry out the work, acting jointly,
give a notice under this section (a “regulator’s notice”) to the local
authority for the area in which the work is to be carried out, and

32.3.91ZB.2.b

the regulator’s notice is accepted (or treated as accepted) by the local
authority,

the regulator is the building control authority in relation to the work.

32.3.91ZB.3

A regulator’s notice may not be given if any of the following has been given
to the local authority in relation to the work (or any part of it)—

32.3.91ZB.3.a

an application for building control approval;

32.3.91ZB.3.b

an initial notice (within the meaning of section 47);

32.3.91ZB.3.c

a public body’s notice (within the meaning of section 54).

########### Section 

32.3.91ZC

32.3.91ZC.1

This section supplements section  91ZB .

32.3.91ZC.2

A local authority to whom a regulator’s notice is given must reject the notice
if any prescribed ground exists, and must otherwise accept the notice.

32.3.91ZC.3

A notice of rejection must be given within the prescribed period, and must
specify the ground or grounds in question.

32.3.91ZC.4

The person intending to carry out the work may appeal to the tribunal against
a decision of the local authority to reject the regulator’s notice.

32.3.91ZC.5

Where a local authority to whom a regulator’s notice is given does not—

32.3.91ZC.5.a

give a notice of rejection in accordance with  subsection (3) , or

32.3.91ZC.5.b

give a notice of acceptance within the period mentioned in that subsection,

the authority is treated as having accepted the regulator’s notice at the end
of that period.

32.3.91ZC.6

As regards any notice under section  91ZB  or this section, building
regulations may make provision about—

32.3.91ZC.6.a

the form and content of the notice;

32.3.91ZC.6.b

the information and documents that must accompany it;

32.3.91ZC.6.c

the way in which the notice, and anything that is to accompany it, is to be
given.

########### Higher-risk buildings in Wales: local authority work

32.3.91ZD

32.3.91ZD.1

Building regulations may make provision about cases where a local authority
for an area in Wales (“ the relevant local authority ”) proposes to carry out
higher-risk building work in that area.

32.3.91ZD.2

The regulations may in particular—

32.3.91ZD.2.a

restrict (or prevent) the exercise by the relevant local authority of
prescribed functions in relation to the higher-risk building work;

32.3.91ZD.2.b

require the relevant local authority to notify the Welsh Ministers of
prescribed matters;

32.3.91ZD.2.c

confer on the Welsh Ministers a power to designate another local authority as
the building control authority in relation to the higher-risk building work
(instead of the relevant local authority);

32.3.91ZD.2.d

confer on the Welsh Ministers a power to require the relevant local authority
to provide specified information, for the purposes of deciding whether to
exercise the power of designation.

32.3.91ZD.3

The regulations may also provide, in cases where a local authority is
designated as the building control authority in relation to the higher-risk
building work, that the relevant local authority and the designated local
authority may agree that the designated local authority is to be the building
control authority in relation to any work of a prescribed description that has
a prescribed connection with the higher-risk building work.

32.3.91ZD.4

Where, as a result of regulations made by virtue of  subsection (2) (c)  or
(3) , a designated local authority is the building control authority in
relation to any work, as regards that work—

32.3.91ZD.4.a

prescribed functions are functions of the designated local authority (rather
than the relevant local authority);

32.3.91ZD.4.b

the designated local authority (rather than the relevant local authority) must
perform such functions relating to enforcement as may be prescribed.

32.4

After section 121 insert—

########### Meaning of “building control authority”

32.4.121A

32.4.121A.1

In this Act “ building control authority ” means—

32.4.121A.1.a

the regulator, in cases where section  91ZA  or  91ZB  provides that the
regulator is the building control authority;

32.4.121A.1.b

the local authority mentioned in  subsection (2) , in any other case.

32.4.121A.2

That local authority is—

32.4.121A.2.a

if, by virtue of regulations made under  section 91ZD  (higher-risk buildings
in Wales: local authority work), a designated local authority is the building
control authority, that local authority;

32.4.121A.2.b

otherwise, the local authority for the area in which the building is situated
or the proposed building is to be situated.

##### Building regulations

33

In Schedule 1 to the Building Act 1984 (building regulations) after paragraph
1 insert—

######### Procedural requirements etc: general

33.1A

33.1A.1

Building regulations may make provision about the procedure that may or must
be followed in relation to any work.

33.1A.2

The regulations may in particular make provision for and in connection with—

33.1A.2.a

the giving of notices;

33.1A.2.b

the making of applications to building control authorities;

33.1A.2.c

the giving or receipt of certificates;

33.1A.2.d

requiring a prescribed person, in prescribed circumstances, to consult such
other person as may be prescribed.

33.1A.3

The regulations may—

33.1A.3.a

confer on a building control authority a power to require a person to notify
the authority of specified matters by the specified time;

33.1A.3.b

provide that in prescribed circumstances an application is treated as granted
or is treated as refused;

33.1A.3.c

make provision about the effect of the grant of an application;

33.1A.3.d

make provision about the effect of certificates;

33.1A.3.e

require a person consulted to give a substantive response to the consultation
before the end of a prescribed period.

33.1A.4

In  sub-paragraph (3) (a)  “ specified ” means specified by the building
control authority.

######### Applications for building control approval

33.1B

33.1B.1

Building regulations may in particular make provision for and in connection
with applications for building control approval (including approval of changes
to anything that has already been approved).

33.1B.2

“Building control approval”—

33.1B.2.a

in relation to any work, means the approval by the building control authority
of—

33.1B.2.a.i

plans of the work, and

33.1B.2.a.ii

such other documents, relating to compliance with any provision of building
regulations, as may be prescribed (or, in a case within  sub-paragraph (5) ,
as are provided to the authority);

33.1B.2.b

in relation to a change to a relevant document, means the approval by the
authority of the change.

33.1B.3

Building regulations may—

33.1B.3.a

confer on building control authorities a power, with the consent of the
applicant—

33.1B.3.a.i

to impose requirements (including in particular requirements of a kind
mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) ) when granting an application;

33.1B.3.a.ii

to vary requirements;

33.1B.3.b

make provision about the cases in which an application for approval of a
change must be made (including provision conferring on building control
authorities a power to specify the circumstances in which such an application
must be made).

33.1B.4

The requirements referred to in  sub-paragraph (3) (a)  are—

33.1B.4.a

a requirement relating to the provision of a revised version of a specified
relevant document;

33.1B.4.b

a requirement that the work does not proceed beyond a specified stage unless a
specified relevant document has been given to, and approved by, the building
control authority.

33.1B.5

Building regulations may provide that in prescribed cases—

33.1B.5.a

an application may be made to the authority for approval of the plans and such
other relevant documents as the applicant considers appropriate, and

33.1B.5.b

the authority may refuse the application if the applicant does not, on
request, provide it with a specified relevant document.

33.1B.6

In this paragraph—

33.1B.6.a

“ relevant document ” means—

33.1B.6.a.i

the plans mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (a) (i) , or

33.1B.6.a.ii

a document prescribed for the purposes of  sub-paragraph (2) (a) (ii) ;

33.1B.6.b

“ specified ” means specified by the building control authority;

33.1B.6.c

a reference to a change to a document includes the replacement of it.

######### Certificates: approved schemes

33.1C

33.1C.1

Building regulations may in particular make provision for and in connection
with certificates that are given—

33.1C.1.a

by a member of a scheme that is approved,

33.1C.1.b

in accordance with the scheme, and

33.1C.1.c

in accordance with any prescribed requirement relating to the provision of
insurance cover in respect of work to which the certificate relates.

33.1C.2

Building regulations may make provision for and in connection with—

33.1C.2.a

the approval of schemes by the appropriate national authority or a person
designated by that authority;

33.1C.2.b

the suspension or withdrawal of approvals (including provision about appeals
to the appropriate court or tribunal against the suspension or withdrawal of
approvals).

33.1C.3

The regulations may in particular provide that a scheme may be approved (and
may remain approved) only if prescribed requirements relating to the provision
of insurance cover are complied with.

33.1C.4

The regulations may provide—

33.1C.4.a

that an approval has effect for a particular period (including a period
specified in the approval), or

33.1C.4.b

that an approval has effect until it is suspended or withdrawn.

33.1C.5

The requirements relating to insurance cover that may be prescribed include in
particular a requirement that insurance cover is provided through a scheme of
insurance approved by the appropriate national authority or a person
designated by that authority.

######### Obtaining, keeping and giving information and documents

33.1D

33.1D.1

Building regulations may, in relation to any work, make provision about—

33.1D.1.a

obtaining information or documents;

33.1D.1.b

creating documents;

33.1D.1.c

keeping information or documents;

33.1D.1.d

giving information or documents.

33.1D.2

The regulations may in particular—

33.1D.2.a

provide that information or documents must be given or kept in accordance with
prescribed standards;

33.1D.2.b

impose requirements as regards keeping information or documents up to date;

33.1D.2.c

confer on building control authorities or other prescribed persons a power, in
prescribed circumstances, to require a person to give information to them.

33.1D.3

Where building regulations provide that any information or document must be
given, they may make provision about the admissibility in any criminal
proceedings of the information or document.

######### Reporting requirements: duty to establish and operate system

33.1E

33.1E.1

This paragraph applies where building regulations made by virtue of  paragraph
1D  require a person to give information—

33.1E.1.a

in relation to work in England, to the regulator;

33.1E.1.b

in relation to work in Wales, to the building control authority.

33.1E.2

For the purpose of facilitating and securing compliance with any such
requirement, the regulations may—

33.1E.2.a

require a prescribed person to establish and operate a system for the giving
of prescribed information to such person as may be prescribed, and

33.1E.2.b

make provision about such systems.

######### Form and content of documents etc

33.1F

33.1F.1

Where building regulations provide that any document must or may be given,
they may make provision about—

33.1F.1.a

the form and content of the document;

33.1F.1.b

the information and other documents that must accompany it;

33.1F.1.c

the way in which the document, and anything that is to accompany it, is to be
given.

33.1F.2

Where building regulations provide that any information must or may be given,
they may make provision about the way in which it is to be given.

33.1F.3

Building regulations may provide that any of the matters mentioned in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  of  sub-paragraph (1) , or in  sub-paragraph (2) ,
are to be specified in a direction made and published in accordance with the
regulations.

33.1F.4

Building regulations may provide that—

33.1F.4.a

a prescribed application must be accompanied by such prescribed documents as
the applicant considers appropriate, and

33.1F.4.b

the building control authority may refuse the application if the applicant
does not, on request, provide it with a document of a kind prescribed for the
purposes of paragraph  (a)  in relation to the application.

######### Inspection, testing etc

33.1G

33.1G.1

Building regulations may make provision for and in connection with—

33.1G.1.a

the inspection and testing of work;

33.1G.1.b

the inspection and testing of buildings;

33.1G.1.c

the inspection and testing of services, fittings and equipment provided in
connection with buildings;

33.1G.1.d

the taking of samples.

33.1G.2

The regulations may in particular—

33.1G.2.a

prohibit the covering up of any work, for a prescribed period after a
prescribed or specified event;

33.1G.2.b

provide for the cutting into or laying open of any work or building, or the
pulling down of any work.

33.1G.3

In  sub-paragraph (2) (a)  “ specified ” means specified by the building
control authority.

######### Applications to building control authorities: extension of period by agreement

33.1H

Building regulations may provide that any prescribed period for the doing of a
thing by a building control authority in connection with an application made
to it may be extended by agreement between the authority and the applicant.

######### Appeals

33.1I

33.1I.1

Building regulations may make provision for and in connection with appeals
against decisions made under, or under an instrument made under, Part 1, 2 or
2A of this Act.

33.1I.2

The regulations may confer, in respect of a prescribed decision—

33.1I.2.a

in relation to England—

33.1I.2.a.i

a right to appeal to the regulator or the tribunal, and

33.1I.2.a.ii

in the case of an appeal to the regulator, a right of appeal to the tribunal
against the decision of the regulator made on appeal;

33.1I.2.b

in relation to Wales—

33.1I.2.b.i

a right to appeal to the Welsh Ministers or a magistrates’ court, and

33.1I.2.b.ii

in the case of an appeal to the Welsh Ministers, a right of appeal to a
magistrates’ court or a right of appeal to the High Court, against the
decision of the Welsh Ministers made on appeal.

33.1I.3

The provision that may be made in connection with appeals includes provision
about a right of appeal conferred by Part 1, 2 or 2A.

33.1I.4

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

33.1I.4.a

the grounds upon which an appeal may be made;

33.1I.4.b

the period within which an appeal must be made;

33.1I.4.c

the way in which any appeal is to be made;

33.1I.4.d

the powers of the court, tribunal or other person determining the appeal
(including provision conferring a power to give directions and, in the case of
the regulator or Welsh Ministers, powers in respect of costs).

33.1I.5

In respect of appeals to the regulator or the Welsh Ministers, the regulations
may make provision about procedural matters (including provision conferring a
discretion as to the procedure to be adopted).

33.1I.6

In respect of appeals to the Welsh Ministers, the regulations may in
particular make provision for and in connection with the Welsh Ministers
appointing a person to determine the appeal (including provision conferring
functions on that person and providing that their decision is treated as the
decision of the Welsh Ministers).

##### Dutyholders and general duties

34

In Schedule 1 to the Building Act 1984 (building regulations) after paragraph
5 insert—

######### Appointed persons

34.5A

34.5A.1

Building regulations may require prescribed appointments to be made in
relation to any work.

34.5A.2

Building regulations may make provision about appointments, including
provision about—

34.5A.2.a

the persons who are to make appointments;

34.5A.2.b

the persons who may be appointed;

34.5A.2.c

the time by which appointments must be made;

34.5A.2.d

the period for which persons are to be appointed;

34.5A.2.e

the termination of appointments;

34.5A.2.f

the replacement of appointed persons.

34.5A.3

The regulations may provide that in prescribed circumstances an appointment is
treated as made.

34.5A.4

In this Schedule “ appointed person ”, in relation to any work, means a person
appointed in relation to that work under building regulations made by virtue
of this paragraph.

######### General duties

34.5B

34.5B.1

Building regulations may, for the purpose of facilitating compliance with any
requirement of building regulations in relation to any work to which building
regulations are applicable—

34.5B.1.a

impose duties on relevant persons in connection with the planning or
management of the work;

34.5B.1.b

require relevant persons to co-operate with other relevant persons.

34.5B.2

The following are “ relevant persons ” for this purpose—

34.5B.2.a

any appointed person;

34.5B.2.b

any prescribed person.

##### Industry competence

35

In Schedule 1 to the Building Act 1984 (building regulations) after  paragraph
5B  (inserted by section 34) insert—

######### Competence requirements

35.5C

35.5C.1

Building regulations may, in relation to any work, impose competence
requirements on—

35.5C.1.a

any appointed person, or

35.5C.1.b

any prescribed person.

35.5C.2

A “competence requirement” is a requirement relating to—

35.5C.2.a

the skills, knowledge, experience and behaviours of an individual;

35.5C.2.b

the capability of a person other than an individual to perform its functions
under building regulations.

35.5C.3

The regulations may require an appointed person who is not an individual to
give an individual acting under its control who has the appropriate skills,
knowledge, experience and behaviours the task of managing its functions as an
appointed person.

##### Lapse of building control approval etc

36

36.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

36.2

For section 32 substitute—

########### Lapse of building control approval

36.2.32

36.2.32.1

This section applies where—

36.2.32.1.a

an application for building control approval in respect of any work is made on
any day (“ the relevant day ”), and

36.2.32.1.b

the application is granted.

36.2.32.2

Where—

36.2.32.2.a

the work relates to one building, and

36.2.32.2.b

the work is not commenced within 3 years from the end of the relevant day,

the relevant provisions have effect as if the application had not been made
(and the approval had not been given).

36.2.32.3

Where—

36.2.32.3.a

the work relates to more than one building, and

36.2.32.3.b

the work relating to one or more of the buildings (“the relevant work”) is not
commenced within 3 years from the end of the relevant day,

the relevant provisions have effect in relation to those buildings and the
relevant work as if the application had not been made (and the approval had
not been given).

36.2.32.4

In  subsection (1)  the reference to an application for building control
approval is to an application for approval of a kind mentioned in  paragraph
1B (2) (a)  of Schedule 1.

36.2.32.5

In this section “ the relevant provisions ” means this Act and regulations
made under it except the following provisions and any regulations made under
them—

36.2.32.5.a

sections 56,  56A ,  56B  and 91A (records and registers etc);

36.2.32.5.b

section 105B  (fees and charges).

36.2.32.6

Building regulations may make provision about when work, or work relating to a
building, is to be regarded as commenced for the purposes of this section.

36.3

In section 47(4)(b) (time when initial notice ceases to be in force) for
“below”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “(final certificates) and
section 53A  (lapse of initial notice)” .

36.4

In section 50 (plans certificates) omit  subsection (8) .

36.5

In section 52 (cancellation of initial notice) omit  subsection (5) .

36.6

In section 53 (2)  (effect of initial notice ceasing to be in force: general)—

36.6.a

at the end of  paragraph (a)  insert  “and” ;

36.6.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” immediately before it.

36.7

After section 53 insert—

########### Lapse of initial notice

36.7.53A

36.7.53A.1

This section applies where—

36.7.53A.1.a

on any day (“ the relevant day ”) an initial notice is given in respect of any
work, and

36.7.53A.1.b

the initial notice is accepted.

36.7.53A.2

Where the work relates to one building and is not commenced within 3 years
from the end of the relevant day—

36.7.53A.2.a

the initial notice ceases to be in force, and

36.7.53A.2.b

if a plans certificate relating to the work (or any part of it) has been
accepted, the relevant provisions have effect as if the certificate had not
been given (or accepted).

36.7.53A.3

Where the work relates to more than one building, and the work in relation to
one or more of the buildings (“the relevant work”) is not commenced within 3
years from the end of the relevant day—

36.7.53A.3.a

the initial notice ceases to be in force so far as it relates to the relevant
work, and

36.7.53A.3.b

if a plans certificate relating to the relevant work (or any part of it) has
been accepted, the relevant provisions have effect as if, as regards the
relevant work, the certificate had not been given (or accepted).

36.7.53A.4

For the purposes of  subsection (3) (b)  it does not matter whether the plans
certificate also relates to work other than the relevant work.

36.7.53A.5

In this section “ the relevant provisions ” has the meaning given by  section
32 .

36.7.53A.6

Building regulations may make provision about when work, or work relating to a
building, is to be regarded as commenced for the purposes of this section.

36.8

In section 54(4)—

36.8.a

omit the “and” at the end of  paragraph (a) ;

36.8.b

after  paragraph (b)  insert

, and

36.8.b.c

with the substitution, in subsection (2)(d), of a reference to paragraph 4A of
Schedule 4 for the reference to section 53A.

36.9

Schedule 4  is amended as follows.

36.10

In paragraph 1(1) for “below” substitute  “(final certificates) and paragraph
4A (lapse of public body’s notice)” .

36.11

In paragraph 2 omit sub-paragraph (6).

36.12

In paragraph 4(2) omit paragraph (c) and the “and” before it.

36.13

After paragraph 4 insert—

########### Lapse of public body’s notice

36.13.4A

36.13.4A.1

This paragraph applies where—

36.13.4A.1.a

on any day (“ the relevant day ”) a public body’s notice is given in respect
of any work, and

36.13.4A.1.b

the public body’s notice is accepted.

36.13.4A.2

Where the work relates to one building and is not commenced within 3 years
from the end of the relevant day—

36.13.4A.2.a

the public body’s notice ceases to be in force, and

36.13.4A.2.b

if a public body’s plans certificate relating to the work (or any part of it)
has been accepted, the relevant provisions have effect as if the certificate
had not been given (or accepted).

36.13.4A.3

Where the work relates to more than one building, and the work in relation to
one or more of the buildings (“the relevant work”) is not commenced within 3
years from the end of the relevant day—

36.13.4A.3.a

the public body’s notice ceases to be in force so far as it relates to the
relevant work, and

36.13.4A.3.b

if a public body’s plans certificate relating to the relevant work (or any
part of it) has been accepted, the relevant provisions have effect as if, as
regards the relevant work, the certificate had not been given (or accepted).

36.13.4A.4

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (3) (b)  it does not matter whether the
public body’s plans certificate also relates to work other than the relevant
work.

36.13.4A.5

In this paragraph “ the relevant provisions ” has the meaning given by
section 32 .

36.13.4A.6

Building regulations may make provision about when work (or work relating to a
building) is to be regarded as commenced for the purposes of this paragraph.

##### Determination of certain applications by Secretary of State or Welsh Ministers

37

After section 30 of the Building Act 1984 insert—

######### Determination by appropriate national authority

########## Determination of certain applications by appropriate national authority

37.30A

37.30A.1

This section applies where the building control authority fails to determine a
prescribed application relating to higher-risk building work (“ the original
application ”) within the relevant period.

37.30A.2

The applicant may apply to the appropriate national authority for the original
application to be determined by that authority.

37.30A.3

An application under this section may be made only—

37.30A.3.a

before the end of the prescribed period, and 

37.30A.3.b

if the building control authority has not determined the original application.

37.30A.4

The building control authority may not determine the original application at
any time after the making of an application under this section.

37.30A.5

Building regulations may make provision about applications under this section,
including in particular provision—

37.30A.5.a

about the making of such applications;

37.30A.5.b

requiring an applicant to notify the building control authority of the making
of an application;

37.30A.5.c

imposing duties on the building control authority in cases where an
application is made;

37.30A.5.d

for and in connection with the appropriate national authority appointing a
person to determine the original application (including provision conferring
functions on that person and providing that their decision is treated as the
decision of the appropriate national authority);

37.30A.5.e

about the procedure to be adopted in connection with the determination of the
original application.

37.30A.6

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (5) (a)  includes
provision about—

37.30A.6.a

the form and content of applications;

37.30A.6.b

the information and documents that are to accompany an application;

37.30A.6.c

the way in which an application, and anything that is to accompany it, is to
be given.

37.30A.7

For the purposes of determining the original application by virtue of this
section, this Act and building regulations apply in relation to the
appropriate national authority (and any person appointed by virtue of
subsection (5) (d) ) as they apply in relation to the building control
authority.

37.30A.8

The applicant may appeal to—

37.30A.8.a

the tribunal, against a decision of the Secretary of State made under this
section;

37.30A.8.b

a magistrates’ court, against a decision of the Welsh Ministers made under
this section.

37.30A.9

In this section “ the relevant period ” means—

37.30A.9.a

the period provided by building regulations as the period within which the
building control authority is to make the decision, or

37.30A.9.b

if the regulations provide that that period may be extended by agreement
between the applicant and the building control authority and such an agreement
is made, the agreed period.

##### Compliance and stop notices

38

38.1

In the Building Act 1984 before section 36 insert—

########### Notices in respect of contraventions

############ Compliance notices

38.1.35B

38.1.35B.1

The building control authority may give a compliance notice to a person who
appears to the authority to have contravened, be contravening or be likely to
contravene—

38.1.35B.1.a

a relevant provision of building regulations, or

38.1.35B.1.b

a requirement imposed by virtue of such a provision.

38.1.35B.2

A “compliance notice” is—

38.1.35B.2.a

a notice requiring the recipient to take specified steps within a specified
period, or

38.1.35B.2.b

a notice requiring the recipient to remedy the contravention or the matters
giving rise to it within a specified period.

38.1.35B.3

A notice of a kind mentioned in  subsection (2) (a)  may specify any steps
relating to—

38.1.35B.3.a

the remedying of the contravention, or

38.1.35B.3.b

avoiding the contravention occurring.

38.1.35B.4

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes a compliance notice
commits an offence.

38.1.35B.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

38.1.35B.5.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

38.1.35B.5.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

38.1.35B.6

A compliance notice may not be given in respect of a contravention which
occurred more than 12 months before the day on which the notice is given.

38.1.35B.7

In this section—

38.1.35B.7.a

“ relevant provision ” means any provision of building regulations except one
that is prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph;

38.1.35B.7.b

“ specified ” means specified in the notice.

############ Stop notices

38.1.35C

38.1.35C.1

The building control authority may give a stop notice to a person appearing to
the authority to be in control of any work if it appears to the authority
that—

38.1.35C.1.a

the carrying out of the work would contravene a provision of building
regulations prescribed for the purposes of this paragraph,

38.1.35C.1.b

a compliance notice relating to the work has been contravened, or

38.1.35C.1.c

the work contravenes a provision of building regulations or a requirement
imposed by virtue of such a provision, and the risk of serious harm condition
is met.

38.1.35C.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (c)  the “risk of serious harm condition”
is that use of the building in question without the contravention having been
remedied would be likely to present a risk of serious harm to people in or
about the building.

38.1.35C.3

A “stop notice” is a notice prohibiting, either immediately or from a
specified time, the carrying out of specified work until the occurrence of
such of the following as may be specified—

38.1.35C.3.a

the taking of specified steps;

38.1.35C.3.b

the occurrence of specified circumstances;

38.1.35C.3.c

the remedying of a specified contravention or the matters giving rise to it.

38.1.35C.4

Where a stop notice is contravened, the person to whom the notice was given
commits an offence.

38.1.35C.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

38.1.35C.5.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

38.1.35C.5.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

38.1.35C.6

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that the person took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the contravention of the stop notice.

38.1.35C.7

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the notice.

############ Compliance and stop notices: supplementary

38.1.35D

38.1.35D.1

Building regulations may make provision about compliance notices or stop
notices.

38.1.35D.2

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

38.1.35D.2.a

the form and content of notices;

38.1.35D.2.b

the giving of notices;

38.1.35D.2.c

the amendment or withdrawal of notices;

38.1.35D.2.d

the extension of any period specified in a compliance notice for the doing of
a thing.

38.1.35D.3

The regulations may require a building control authority which gives a notice
to a person to take reasonable steps to notify other prescribed persons.

38.1.35D.4

A compliance notice, or a stop notice under  section 35C (1) (a) , may not be
given in respect of a contravention (including a future contravention) where—

38.1.35D.4.a

an application for building control approval was made to a building control
authority in respect of any work that is not higher-risk building work,

38.1.35D.4.b

the application was granted, and

38.1.35D.4.c

the contravention consists (or would consist) of the carrying out of work or
the doing of anything else in accordance with—

38.1.35D.4.c.i

the plans, or any other document, approved by the grant of building control
approval, and

38.1.35D.4.c.ii

any requirement imposed by the building control authority in connection with
the work or other thing.

38.2

After section 39 of that Act insert—

########### Appeals against compliance notices and stop notices etc

38.2.39A

38.2.39A.1

A person to whom a compliance notice has been given may appeal to the
appropriate court or tribunal.

38.2.39A.2

Where an appeal under  subsection (1)  is made—

38.2.39A.2.a

the compliance notice is of no effect pending the final determination or
withdrawal of the appeal, and

38.2.39A.2.b

the specified period mentioned in  section 35B (2)  is treated as extended by
the period—

38.2.39A.2.b.i

beginning with the day on which the appeal is made, and

38.2.39A.2.b.ii

ending with the day on which the appeal is finally determined or withdrawn.

38.2.39A.3

A person to whom a compliance notice has been given may apply to the
appropriate court or tribunal for an extension of the period for the doing of
the thing specified in the notice.

38.2.39A.4

Subsection  (2)  applies in relation to such an application as it applies in
relation to an appeal under  subsection (1) .

38.2.39A.5

A person to whom a stop notice has been given may appeal to the appropriate
court or tribunal.

38.2.39A.6

Where an appeal under  subsection (5)  is made—

38.2.39A.6.a

the appellant may apply to the appropriate court or tribunal for a direction
that the stop notice is of no effect pending the final determination or
withdrawal of the appeal, and

38.2.39A.6.b

unless and until any such direction is given, the stop notice continues to
have effect despite the making of the appeal.

##### Breach of building regulations

39

39.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

39.2

For section 35 substitute—

########### Offence of contravening building regulations etc

39.2.35

39.2.35.1

A person who contravenes a provision of building regulations, or a requirement
imposed by virtue of any such provision, commits an offence.

39.2.35.2

Building regulations may provide that  subsection (1)  does not apply in
relation to a prescribed provision of the regulations.

39.2.35.3

Building regulations may provide that, in relation to a prescribed provision
of the regulations, it is a defence for a person charged with an offence under
this section to prove such matters relating to the contravention as may be
prescribed.

39.2.35.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

39.2.35.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

39.2.35.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

39.3

In section 36 (4)  (time limit for notices requiring removal or alteration of
non-compliant work) for “12 months” substitute  “10 years” .

##### Liability of officers of body corporate etc

40

In the Building Act 1984 before section 113 insert—

######### Liability of officers of body corporate etc

40.112A

40.112A.1

Where an offence under this Act committed by a body corporate—

40.112A.1.a

is committed with the consent or connivance of any director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who
was purporting to act in any such capacity, or

40.112A.1.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of any such person,

that person as well as the body corporate commits the offence and is liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

40.112A.2

In  subsection (1)  “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose
affairs are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

40.112A.3

Subsection  (1)  also applies in relation to a body that is not a body
corporate, with the substitution for the reference to a director of the body
of a reference—

40.112A.3.a

in the case of a partnership, to a partner;

40.112A.3.b

in the case of an unincorporated body other than a partnership—

40.112A.3.b.i

where the body’s affairs are managed by its members, to a member of the body;

40.112A.3.b.ii

in any other case, to a member of the governing body.

##### Revocation etc of certain provision made under section 2(2) of ECA 1972

41

41.1

In this section “ combined instrument ” means an instrument containing
(whether alone or with other provision)—

41.1.a

provision made under section 1(1) of the Building Act 1984 (building
regulations), and

41.1.b

provision made under section 2(2) of the European Communities Act 1972
(provision implementing EU obligations etc).

41.2

Regulations under section 1(1) of the Building Act 1984 may revoke a combined
instrument so far as it is made under section 2(2) of the European Communities
Act 1972.

41.3

Nothing in paragraph 13 or 14 of Schedule 8 to the European Union (Withdrawal)
Act 2018 (procedure etc for SIs amending or revoking regulations etc made
under section 2(2) of the 1972 Act) is to be read as applying to a statutory
instrument that amends a combined instrument so far as the combined instrument
is made under section 2(2) of the European Communities Act 1972.

#### Building control approvers and building inspectors

##### Regulation of building control profession

42

In the Building Act 1984, after Part 2 insert—

######### REGULATION OF BUILDING CONTROL PROFESSION

########## Interpretation

########### “Regulatory authority”

42.58A

In this Act the “ regulatory authority ” means—

42.58A.a

in relation to England, the regulator;

42.58A.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers.

########## Registered building inspectors

########### “Registered building inspector”

42.58B

In this Act “ registered building inspector ” means an individual registered
as a building inspector in accordance with this Part.

########### Register of building inspectors

42.58C

42.58C.1

The regulatory authority must establish and maintain a register of building
inspectors.

42.58C.2

The register may provide for different classes of building inspectors (for
example, according to qualifications or experience).

42.58C.3

The regulatory authority must register an individual as a building inspector,
or a building inspector of a particular class, if—

42.58C.3.a

the individual makes an application for registration in accordance with
section 58D , and

42.58C.3.b

the authority is satisfied that the individual meets such criteria as the
authority may from time to time determine.

42.58C.4

Registration may—

42.58C.4.a

have effect in relation to all work or in relation to work of a particular
description;

42.58C.4.b

be subject to conditions.

42.58C.5

Registration must be for a prescribed period.

42.58C.6

The register must record, in relation to each registered building inspector—

42.58C.6.a

the individual’s name and business address;

42.58C.6.b

if the individual is employed by a building control authority or a registered
building control approver, the name and business address of that person;

42.58C.6.c

whether the individual’s registration has effect in relation to all work or
work of a particular description;

42.58C.6.d

if the individual’s registration has effect in relation to work of a
particular description, that description of work;

42.58C.6.e

any conditions to which the individual’s registration is subject;

42.58C.6.f

the period for which the individual is registered;

42.58C.6.g

if the individual’s registration has been varied by an order under  section
58I (2) (b) , that fact and the effect of the variation;

42.58C.6.h

if the individual’s registration has been suspended by an order under  section
58I (2) (c)  or  58J (2) , that fact and the period of the suspension;

42.58C.6.i

any matters that are prescribed.

42.58C.7

The regulatory authority must make the register available for inspection by
the public in whatever way the authority thinks appropriate.

########### Application for registration as building inspector

42.58D

42.58D.1

An application for registration as a building inspector must—

42.58D.1.a

be made in such form and manner, and

42.58D.1.b

be accompanied by such information and supporting evidence,

as the regulatory authority may from time to time determine.

42.58D.2

The regulatory authority may make different provision about those matters for
different cases.

42.58D.3

When considering an application for registration, the regulatory authority may
require the applicant to provide it with such further information or
supporting evidence as the authority may require.

42.58D.4

The applicant may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against any
decision made by the regulatory authority on the application.

########### Variation or cancellation of registration as building inspector

42.58E

42.58E.1

A registered building inspector may apply for the variation or cancellation of
their registration.

42.58E.2

Section  58D  applies to such an application as it applies to an application
for registration.

########### Code of conduct

42.58F

42.58F.1

The regulatory authority must prepare and publish a code of conduct for
registered building inspectors.

42.58F.2

The code must set out standards of professional conduct and practice expected
of registered building inspectors.

42.58F.3

The code may make different provision for different cases (for example, for
different descriptions of work).

42.58F.4

The regulatory authority may revise the code of conduct at any time (and must
publish any revised code).

########### Registered building inspectors: information notices

42.58G

42.58G.1

The regulatory authority may by notice in writing require a registered
building inspector to provide the authority with any documents or information
the authority reasonably requires for the purposes its functions under
sections  58B  to  58M .

42.58G.2

The notice must specify—

42.58G.2.a

the documents or information required,

42.58G.2.b

the date by which they must be provided, and

42.58G.2.c

the form in which they must be provided.

########### Professional misconduct investigations

42.58H

42.58H.1

If it appears to the regulatory authority (on receipt of a complaint or
otherwise) that a registered building inspector may be guilty of professional
misconduct, the authority may investigate the matter.

42.58H.2

In this Part “ professional misconduct ”, in relation to a registered building
inspector, means conduct that—

42.58H.2.a

falls short of the standards of conduct and practice expected of registered
building inspectors, or

42.58H.2.b

is likely to bring the profession of registered building inspectors into
disrepute.

42.58H.3

The regulatory authority must prepare and publish a statement of the procedure
it will follow when investigating a registered building inspector under this
section (which must include an opportunity for the inspector to make
representations).

42.58H.4

The regulatory authority may revise the statement at any time (and must
publish any revised statement).

########### Sanctions for professional misconduct

42.58I

42.58I.1

If following an investigation under  section 58H  the regulatory authority
determines that an individual who is a registered building inspector is guilty
of professional misconduct, the authority may make one or more disciplinary
orders.

42.58I.2

A disciplinary order is an order—

42.58I.2.a

requiring the individual to pay a financial penalty of an amount specified in
the order,

42.58I.2.b

varying the individual’s registration in a way specified in the order,

42.58I.2.c

suspending the individual’s registration for a period specified in the order,
or

42.58I.2.d

cancelling the individual’s registration from a date specified in the order.

42.58I.3

Varying the individual’s registration means varying any of the matters listed
in  section 58C (4)  (limitations and conditions).

42.58I.4

Where the regulatory authority makes a disciplinary order it must give a copy
of the order to the individual concerned as soon as reasonably practicable.

42.58I.5

The individual may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against a
disciplinary order under this section.

42.58I.6

A disciplinary order under  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b)  has no effect until—

42.58I.6.a

the end of the period within which an appeal may be brought, or

42.58I.6.b

if an appeal is brought before the end of that period, the determination of
the appeal.

42.58I.7

Where the regulatory authority is the regulator, it must pay into the
Consolidated Fund the amount of any financial penalty paid to it pursuant to a
disciplinary order under  subsection (2) (a) .

########### Interim suspension for suspected serious professional misconduct

42.58J

42.58J.1

This section applies where the regulatory authority considers that—

42.58J.1.a

an individual who is a registered building inspector may be guilty of
professional misconduct, and

42.58J.1.b

the suspected misconduct is so serious that, if the authority determines that
the individual is guilty, it is likely to make an order under  section 58I (2)
(d)  cancelling the individual’s registration.

42.58J.2

The regulatory authority may by order suspend the individual’s registration
for a period specified in the order (which must not exceed 3 months).

42.58J.3

The regulatory authority may revoke the order before the end of that period.

42.58J.4

Where the regulatory authority makes (or revokes) an order under this section
it must give a copy of the order (or notice of the revocation) to the
individual concerned as soon as reasonably practicable.

42.58J.5

The individual may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against an
order under this section.

########### Suspension orders: further provision

42.58K

An individual whose registration is suspended under  section 58I (2) (c)  or
58J (2)  is not a registered building inspector for the purposes of section
46A or 54B (restricted activities and functions) (but is a registered building
inspector for the purposes of this Part).

########### Offences relating to registration

42.58L

42.58L.1

A registered building inspector commits an offence if, without reasonable
excuse, they carry out a restricted activity on behalf of a building control
authority or a registered building control approver—

42.58L.1.a

in relation to work which is outside the scope of their registration, or

42.58L.1.b

while their registration is suspended.

42.58L.2

“Restricted activity”—

42.58L.2.a

in relation to a building control authority, has the meaning given by section
46A;

42.58L.2.b

in relation to a registered building control approver, has the meaning given
by section 54B.

42.58L.3

A registered building inspector commits an offence if, without reasonable
excuse—

42.58L.3.a

they give advice to a building control authority or registered building
control approver—

42.58L.3.a.i

in relation to work which is outside the scope of their registration, or

42.58L.3.a.ii

while their registration is suspended, and

42.58L.3.b

they know, or ought to know, that the authority or approver is obtaining that
advice for the purposes of section 46A or 54B (restricted functions).

42.58L.4

A registered building inspector commits an offence if, with intent to deceive,
they do anything which implies that work which is outside the scope of their
registration is within the scope of their registration.

42.58L.5

A registered building inspector whose registration is suspended commits an
offence if, with intent to deceive, they do anything which implies that their
registration is not suspended.

42.58L.6

For the purposes of this section, work is outside the scope of a registered
building inspector’s registration if the inspector’s registration does not
have effect in relation to work of that description.

42.58L.7

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine.

########### Offence of acting as, or pretending to be, a registered building inspector

42.58M

42.58M.1

A person who is not a registered building inspector commits an offence if,
with intent to deceive, the person—

42.58M.1.a

impersonates a registered building inspector, or

42.58M.1.b

does anything (including using any name, title or description) which implies
that the person is a registered building inspector.

42.58M.2

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine.

########## Registered building control approvers 

########### “Registered building control approver”

42.58N

In this Act “ registered building control approver ” means a person registered
as a building control approver in accordance with this Part.

########### Register of building control approvers

42.58O

42.58O.1

The regulatory authority must establish and maintain a register of building
control approvers.

42.58O.2

The regulatory authority must register a person as a building control approver
if—

42.58O.2.a

the person makes an application for registration in accordance with  section
58P , and

42.58O.2.b

the authority is satisfied that the person meets such criteria as the
authority may from time to time determine.

42.58O.3

Registration may—

42.58O.3.a

have effect in relation to all work or in relation to work of a particular
description;

42.58O.3.b

be subject to conditions.

42.58O.4

Registration must be for a prescribed period.

42.58O.5

The register must record, in relation to each registered building control
approver—

42.58O.5.a

the person’s name and business address;

42.58O.5.b

whether the person’s registration has effect in relation to all work or work
of a particular description;

42.58O.5.c

if the person’s registration has effect in relation to work of a particular
description, that description of work;

42.58O.5.d

any conditions to which the person’s registration is subject;

42.58O.5.e

the period for which the person is registered;

42.58O.5.f

if the person’s registration has been varied by an order under section  58U
(2) (b) , that fact and the effect of the variation;

42.58O.5.g

if the person’s registration has been suspended by an order under section  58U
(2) (c)  or  58V (2) , that fact and the period of the suspension;

42.58O.5.h

any matters that are prescribed.

42.58O.6

The regulatory authority must make the register available for inspection by
the public in whatever way the authority thinks appropriate.

########### Application for registration as building control approver

42.58P

42.58P.1

An application for registration as a building control approver must—

42.58P.1.a

be made in such form and manner, and

42.58P.1.b

be accompanied by such information and supporting evidence,

as the regulatory authority may from time to time determine.

42.58P.2

The regulatory authority may make different provision about those matters for
different cases.

42.58P.3

When considering an application for registration, the regulatory authority may
require the applicant to provide it with such further information or
supporting evidence as the authority may require.

42.58P.4

The applicant may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against any
decision made by the regulatory authority on the application.

########### Variation or cancellation of registration as building control approver

42.58Q

42.58Q.1

A registered building control approver may apply for the variation or
cancellation of their registration.

42.58Q.2

Section  58P  applies to such an application as it applies to an application
for registration.

########### Professional conduct rules

42.58R

42.58R.1

The regulatory authority must prepare and publish professional conduct rules
applying to registered building control approvers (in addition to operational
standards rules applying to them under section  58Z ).

42.58R.2

Professional conduct rules may in particular make provision about insurance
and financial propriety.

42.58R.3

The rules may make different provision for different cases (for example, for
different descriptions of work).

42.58R.4

The regulatory authority may revise the professional conduct rules at any time
(and must publish any revised rules).

########### Registered building control approvers: information notices

42.58S

42.58S.1

The regulatory authority may by notice in writing require a registered
building control approver to provide the authority with any documents or
information the authority reasonably requires for the purposes of its
functions under sections  58N  to  58X .

42.58S.2

The notice must specify—

42.58S.2.a

the documents or information required,

42.58S.2.b

the date by which they must be provided, and

42.58S.2.c

the form in which they must be provided.

########### Investigations into contraventions of professional conduct rules

42.58T

42.58T.1

If it appears to the regulatory authority (on receipt of a complaint or
otherwise) that a registered building control approver may have contravened
the professional conduct rules, the authority may investigate the matter.

42.58T.2

The regulatory authority must prepare and publish a statement of the procedure
it will follow when investigating a registered building control approver under
this section (which must include an opportunity for the person to make
representations).

42.58T.3

The regulatory authority may revise the statement at any time (and must
publish any revised statement).

########### Sanctions for contravention of professional conduct rules

42.58U

42.58U.1

If following an investigation under section  58T  the regulatory authority
determines that a person who is a registered building control approver has
contravened the professional conduct rules, the authority may make one or more
disciplinary orders.

42.58U.2

A disciplinary order is an order—

42.58U.2.a

requiring the person to pay a financial penalty of an amount specified in the
order,

42.58U.2.b

varying the person’s registration in a way specified in the order,

42.58U.2.c

suspending the person’s registration for a period specified in the order, or

42.58U.2.d

cancelling the person’s registration from a date specified in the order.

42.58U.3

Varying the person’s registration means varying any of the matters listed in
section 58O (3)  (limitations and conditions).

42.58U.4

Where the regulatory authority makes a disciplinary order it must as soon as
reasonably practicable—

42.58U.4.a

give a copy of the order to the person concerned, and

42.58U.4.b

in prescribed cases, give a copy of the order—

42.58U.4.b.i

to each local authority in England, where the regulatory authority is the
regulator, or

42.58U.4.b.ii

to each local authority in Wales, where the regulatory authority is the Welsh
Ministers.

42.58U.5

The person may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against a
disciplinary order under this section.

42.58U.6

A disciplinary order under  subsection (2) (a)  or  (b)  has no effect until—

42.58U.6.a

the end of the period within which an appeal may be brought, or

42.58U.6.b

if an appeal is brought before the end of that period, the determination of
the appeal.

42.58U.7

Where the regulatory authority is the regulator, it must pay into the
Consolidated Fund the amount of any financial penalty paid to it pursuant to a
disciplinary order under  subsection (2) (a) .

42.58U.8

A person whose registration is suspended by an order under  subsection (2) (c)
is a registered building control approver for the purposes of this Part.

42.58U.9

See section  58Z6 (2)  for further provision about cancellation of a person’s
registration as a building control approver.

########### Interim suspension for suspected serious contravention

42.58V

42.58V.1

This section applies where the regulatory authority considers that—

42.58V.1.a

a person who is a registered building control approver may have contravened
the professional conduct rules, and

42.58V.1.b

the suspected contravention is so serious that, if the authority determines
that the contravention has occurred, it is likely to make an order under
section 58U (2) (d)  cancelling the person’s registration.

42.58V.2

The regulatory authority may by order suspend the person’s registration for a
period specified in the order (which must not exceed 3 months).

42.58V.3

The regulatory authority may revoke the order before the end of that period.

42.58V.4

Where the regulatory authority makes (or revokes) an order under this section
it must as soon as reasonably practicable—

42.58V.4.a

give a copy of the order (or notice of the revocation) to the person
concerned, and

42.58V.4.b

in prescribed cases, give a copy of the order (or notice of the revocation)—

42.58V.4.b.i

to each local authority in England, where the regulatory authority is the
regulator, or

42.58V.4.b.ii

to each local authority in Wales, where the regulatory authority is the Welsh
Ministers.

42.58V.5

The person may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal against an order
under this section.

42.58V.6

A person whose registration is suspended by an order under this section is a
registered building control approver for the purposes of this Part.

########### Offence of registered building control approver acting outside scope of registration

42.58W

42.58W.1

A registered building control approver commits an offence if, without
reasonable excuse, they exercise a function under this Act, or regulations
made under this Act—

42.58W.1.a

in relation to work outside the scope of their registration, or

42.58W.1.b

while their registration is suspended.

42.58W.2

A registered building control approver commits an offence if, with intent to
deceive, they do anything which implies that work which is outside the scope
of their registration is within the scope of their registration.

42.58W.3

A registered building control approver whose registration is suspended commits
an offence if, with intent to deceive, they do anything which implies that
their registration is not suspended.

42.58W.4

For the purposes of this section, work is outside the scope of a registered
building control approver’s registration if their registration does not have
effect in relation to work of that description.

42.58W.5

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine.

########### Offence of pretending to be a registered building control approver

42.58X

42.58X.1

A person who is not a registered building control approver commits an offence
if, with intent to deceive, the person—

42.58X.1.a

impersonates a registered building control approver, or

42.58X.1.b

does anything (including using any name, title or description) which implies
that the person is a registered building control approver.

42.58X.2

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine.

########## Delegation of registration functions

########### Delegation of registration functions

42.58Y

42.58Y.1

The regulatory authority may delegate its registration functions to another
person, to such extent and subject to such conditions as it considers
appropriate.

42.58Y.2

The regulatory authority’s registration functions are its functions under
sections  58B  to  58X  (and include the charging of any registration fees or
recovery of any registration charges).

42.58Y.3

“Registration fees” and “registration charges” mean fees and charges in
connection with the regulatory authority’s functions under sections  58B  to
58X  that are—

42.58Y.3.a

prescribed by regulations under section 105B, or

42.58Y.3.b

determined by the regulatory authority in accordance with regulations under
that section.

42.58Y.4

The regulatory authority may vary or revoke a delegation.

42.58Y.5

Where the regulatory authority is the regulator, it—

42.58Y.5.a

may make, vary or revoke a delegation only with the consent of the Secretary
of State;

42.58Y.5.b

must vary or revoke a delegation if directed to do so by the Secretary of
State.

42.58Y.6

Section  58Z9  of this Act (sharing of information between regulatory
authorities) and Schedule  3  to the Building Safety Act 2022 (information
sharing between regulator and other authorities) apply as if references to the
regulator included references to a person to whom the regulator has delegated
functions under this section.

42.58Y.7

The following provisions of this Act apply as if references to the Welsh
Ministers included references to a person to whom the Welsh Ministers have
delegated functions under this section—

42.58Y.7.a

section  58Z9  (sharing of information between regulatory authorities);

42.58Y.7.b

section 91B (cooperation and sharing of information between Welsh Ministers
and other authorities);

42.58Y.7.c

section 131A (application to the Crown).

########## Operational standards rules

########### Operational standards rules

42.58Z

42.58Z.1

The regulatory authority may make rules (“operational standards rules”)
applying to local authorities and registered building control approvers in
relation to their exercise of building control functions.

42.58Z.2

Operational standards rules may in particular make provision about standards
to be met, and practices, procedures or methods to be adopted, in exercising
building control functions.

42.58Z.3

In this Part “ building control functions ”, in relation to a local authority
or registered building control approver, means the functions of the authority
or approver under this Act and regulations made under it.

42.58Z.4

The operational standards rules may make different provision for different
cases (for example, for different descriptions of work).

42.58Z.5

The regulatory authority may revise the operational standards rules at any
time.

42.58Z.6

The regulatory authority must publish the operational standards rules (and any
revised rules).

########### Reporting requirements

42.58Z1

42.58Z1.1

The regulatory authority may direct local authorities and registered building
control approvers to provide it, at specified times or intervals, with
specified reports, returns and other information relating to the exercise of
their building control functions.

42.58Z1.2

“ Specified ” means specified in the direction.

42.58Z1.3

A direction under this section—

42.58Z1.3.a

must be in writing;

42.58Z1.3.b

may be general or specific;

42.58Z1.3.c

may be varied or revoked.

42.58Z1.4

A registered building control approver who, without reasonable excuse, fails
to comply with a direction under this section commits an offence.

42.58Z1.5

An offence under subsection  (4)  is punishable on summary conviction by a
fine.

########### Information: Wales

42.58Z2

42.58Z2.1

This section applies where the Welsh Ministers are the regulatory authority.

42.58Z2.2

The Welsh Ministers may by notice in writing require a local authority or
registered building control approver to provide the Welsh Ministers with any
documents or information relating to the exercise of their building control
functions that the Welsh Ministers reasonably require.

42.58Z2.3

The notice must specify—

42.58Z2.3.a

the documents or information required,

42.58Z2.3.b

the date by which they must be provided, and

42.58Z2.3.c

the form in which they must be provided.

42.58Z2.4

A registered building control approver who, without reasonable excuse, fails
to comply with a notice under this section commits an offence.

42.58Z2.5

An offence under  subsection (4)  is punishable on summary conviction by a
fine.

########### Investigations

42.58Z3

42.58Z3.1

If it appears to the regulatory authority (on receipt of a complaint or
otherwise) that a local authority or registered building control approver may
have contravened the operational standards rules, the regulatory authority may
investigate the matter.

42.58Z3.2

The regulatory authority must prepare and publish a statement of the procedure
it will follow when investigating an authority or approver under this section
(which must include an opportunity for the authority or approver to make
representations).

42.58Z3.3

The regulatory authority may revise the statement at any time (and must
publish any revised statement).

########### Improvement notice

42.58Z4

42.58Z4.1

The regulatory authority may give an improvement notice to a local authority
or a registered building control approver if it appears to the regulatory
authority (following an investigation under section  58Z3  or otherwise) that
the local authority or registered building control approver has contravened
operational standards rules.

42.58Z4.2

An improvement notice is a notice requiring the local authority or registered
building control approver to remedy the contravention by doing, or by
refraining from doing, anything specified in the order.

42.58Z4.3

An improvement notice may have effect—

42.58Z4.3.a

until it is revoked, or

42.58Z4.3.b

for a period specified in the notice.

42.58Z4.4

Where the regulatory authority gives an improvement notice, it must also give
the local authority or registered building control approver a statement of the
reasons for giving the notice.

42.58Z4.5

Where the regulatory authority gives an improvement notice to a registered
building control approver, in prescribed cases it must as soon as reasonably
practicable provide copies of the notice and the statement—

42.58Z4.5.a

to each local authority in England, where the regulatory authority is the
regulator, or

42.58Z4.5.b

to each local authority in Wales, where the regulatory authority is the Welsh
Ministers.

42.58Z4.6

Where the regulatory authority giving an improvement notice is the regulator,
it must as soon as reasonably practicable provide copies of the notice and the
statement of reasons to the Secretary of State.

42.58Z4.7

The local authority or registered building control approver to whom the
improvement notice is given may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal
against the notice.

########### Serious contravention notices

42.58Z5

42.58Z5.1

The regulatory authority may give a serious contravention notice to a local
authority or a registered building control approver if it appears to the
regulatory authority (following an investigation under section  58Z3  or
otherwise) that the condition in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  is met.

42.58Z5.2

The condition in this subsection is that—

42.58Z5.2.a

the local authority or registered building control approver has contravened
operational standards rules, and

42.58Z5.2.b

as a result of the contravention the safety of persons in or about buildings
has been, or may have been, put at risk.

42.58Z5.3

This condition in this subsection is that the local authority or registered
building control approver—

42.58Z5.3.a

has been given an improvement notice under section  58Z4 , and

42.58Z5.3.b

has failed to remedy the contravention of operational standards rules in
respect of which the notice was given.

42.58Z5.4

A serious contravention notice is a notice requiring the local authority or
registered building control approver to remedy the contravention in question
by doing, or by refraining from doing, anything specified in the order.

42.58Z5.5

A serious contravention notice may have effect—

42.58Z5.5.a

until it is revoked, or

42.58Z5.5.b

for a period specified in the notice.

42.58Z5.6

Where the regulatory authority gives a serious contravention notice, it must
also give the local authority or registered building control approver a
statement of the reasons for giving the notice.

42.58Z5.7

Where the regulatory authority gives a serious contravention notice to a
registered building control approver, in prescribed cases it must as soon as
reasonably practicable provide copies of the notice and the statement—

42.58Z5.7.a

to each local authority in England, where the regulatory authority is the
regulator, or

42.58Z5.7.b

to each local authority in Wales, where the regulatory authority is the Welsh
Ministers.

42.58Z5.8

Where the regulatory authority giving a serious contravention notice is the
regulator, it must as soon as reasonably practicable provide copies of the
notice and the statement of reasons to the Secretary of State.

42.58Z5.9

The local authority or registered building control approver to whom the
serious contravention notice is given may appeal to the appropriate court or
tribunal against the notice.

42.58Z5.10

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes a serious contravention
notice commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine.

########### Continuing failure to meet standards: registered building control approvers

42.58Z6

42.58Z6.1

This section applies where—

42.58Z6.1.a

the regulatory authority has given a registered building control approver one
or more serious contravention notices under  section 58Z5 , and

42.58Z6.1.b

it appears to the regulatory authority that the way in which the approver
exercises their building control functions—

42.58Z6.1.b.i

falls short of the standards expected, and

42.58Z6.1.b.ii

puts, or may put, the safety of persons in or about buildings at risk,

and is likely to continue to do so.

42.58Z6.2

The regulatory authority may cancel the approver’s registration.

42.58Z6.3

But before cancelling a registered building control approver’s registration
under  subsection (2)  the regulatory authority must—

42.58Z6.3.a

give the approver notice that it is considering its registration under that
subsection, and explain its reasons, and

42.58Z6.3.b

invite the approver to make representations within a period specified in the
notice (which must not be less than 14 days).

42.58Z6.4

Where the regulatory authority cancels a registered building control
approver’s registration under  subsection (2)  it must as soon as reasonably
practicable—

42.58Z6.4.a

notify the approver that it has done so,

42.58Z6.4.b

give the approver a statement of its reasons, and

42.58Z6.4.c

notify—

42.58Z6.4.c.i

each local authority in England, where the regulatory authority is the
regulator, or

42.58Z6.4.c.ii

each local authority in Wales, where the regulatory authority is the Welsh
Ministers.

42.58Z6.5

A registered building control approver may appeal to the appropriate court or
tribunal against the cancellation of its registration under  subsection (2) .

########### Continuing failure to meet standards: local authorities in England

42.58Z7

42.58Z7.1

This section applies where—

42.58Z7.1.a

the regulatory authority is the regulator,

42.58Z7.1.b

the regulatory authority has given a local authority one or more serious
contravention notices under  section 58Z5 , and

42.58Z7.1.c

it appears to the regulatory authority that the way in which the local
authority exercises their building control functions—

42.58Z7.1.c.i

falls short of the standards expected, and

42.58Z7.1.c.ii

puts, or may put, the safety of persons in or about buildings at risk,

and is likely to continue to do so.

42.58Z7.2

The regulatory authority may recommend to the Secretary of State that the
Secretary of State make an order under section 116(4) (transfer of functions
to the Secretary of State or another local authority).

42.58Z7.3

But before making a recommendation under  subsection (2)  the regulatory
authority must—

42.58Z7.3.a

give the local authority notice that it is considering making a recommendation
under that subsection, and explain its reasons, and

42.58Z7.3.b

invite the authority to make representations within a period specified in the
notice (which must not be less than 14 days).

42.58Z7.4

Where the regulatory authority makes a recommendation under  subsection (2)
it must as soon as reasonably practicable—

42.58Z7.4.a

notify the local authority that it has done so, and

42.58Z7.4.b

give the local authority a statement of its reasons.

42.58Z7.5

A local authority may appeal to the tribunal against a recommendation under
subsection (2) .

########## Inspection of local authorities and registered building control approvers

########### Inspections

42.58Z8

42.58Z8.1

The regulatory authority may carry out an inspection of a local authority, or
a registered building control approver, in relation to their exercise of
building control functions.

42.58Z8.2

The purposes for which an inspection may be carried out include—

42.58Z8.2.a

ascertaining the efficiency and effectiveness of the local authority or
registered building control approver in exercising their building control
functions;

42.58Z8.2.b

verifying any information provided by the local authority or registered
building control approver to the regulatory authority, in connection with
their building control functions.

########## Information sharing

########### Sharing of information between regulatory authorities

42.58Z9

42.58Z9.1

The regulator may disclose information held in connection with a function
under this Part to the Welsh Ministers for the purposes of—

42.58Z9.1.a

a function of the regulator under this Part, or

42.58Z9.1.b

a function of the Welsh Ministers under this Part.

42.58Z9.2

The Welsh Ministers may disclose information held in connection with a
function under this Part to the regulator for the purposes of—

42.58Z9.2.a

a function of the Welsh Ministers under this Part, or

42.58Z9.2.b

a function of the regulator under this Part.

42.58Z9.3

Except as provided by subsection (4), the disclosure of information under this
section does not breach—

42.58Z9.3.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

42.58Z9.3.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

42.58Z9.4

This section does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by this
section).

########## Appeals

########### Appeal to Crown Court

42.58Z10

An appeal lies to the Crown Court against a decision of a magistrates’ court
under this Part.

##### Transfer of approved inspectors’ functions to registered building control approvers

43

Schedule  4  amends the Building Act 1984 so as to—

43.a

transfer the functions of approved inspectors to registered building control
approvers, and

43.b

make other provision consequential on section 42.

##### Functions exercisable only through, or with advice of, registered building inspectors

44

44.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

44.2

After section 46 insert—

########### Building control authorities: restricted activities and functions

############ Building control authorities: restricted activities and functions

44.2.46A

44.2.46A.1

A building control authority may carry out a restricted activity in relation
to any work only through a registered building inspector, acting on the
authority’s behalf, whose registration has effect in relation to work of that
description.

44.2.46A.2

Before each exercise of a restricted function in relation to any work, a
building control authority must obtain and consider the advice of a registered
building inspector whose registration has effect in relation to work of that
description.

44.2.46A.3

The registered building inspector who carries out the restricted activity, or
advises on the exercise of the restricted function, may (but need not) be
employed by the authority.

44.2.46A.4

In this section—

“ restricted activity ” means an activity that is prescribed for the purposes
of this section; “ restricted function ” means a function of a building
control authority under— this Part, Part 3, or regulations made under this
Part or Part 3, that is prescribed for the purposes of this section.

44.3

After  section 54A  (inserted by section 47) insert—

########### Registered building control approvers: restricted activities and functions

############ Registered building control approvers: restricted activities and functions

44.3.54B

44.3.54B.1

This section applies to a registered building control approver who is not a
registered building inspector.

44.3.54B.2

The approver may carry out a restricted activity in relation to any work only
through a registered building inspector, acting on the approver’s behalf,
whose registration has effect in relation to work of that description.

44.3.54B.3

Before each exercise of a restricted function in relation to any work, the
approver must obtain and consider the advice of a registered building
inspector whose registration has effect in relation to work of that
description.

44.3.54B.4

The registered building inspector who carries out the restricted activity, or
advises on the exercise of the restricted function, may (but need not) be
employed by the approver.

44.3.54B.5

In this section—

“ restricted activity ” means an activity that is prescribed for the purposes
of this section; “ restricted function ” means a function of a registered
building control approver under this Part, or regulations made under this
Part, that is prescribed for the purposes of this section.

44.3.54B.6

A registered building control approver who contravenes subsection  (2)  or
(3)  without reasonable excuse commits an offence.

44.3.54B.7

An offence under this section is punishable on summary conviction by a fine.

##### Default powers of appropriate national authority

45

45.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

45.2

In section 116 (power to transfer local authority functions to appropriate
national authority)—

45.2.a

in the heading for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” ;

45.2.b

in  subsection (1) —

45.2.b.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

45.2.b.ii

for “he” substitute  “it” ;

45.2.c

in  subsection (2) —

45.2.c.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

45.2.c.ii

for the words from “make an order” to the end substitute  “make a transfer
order in respect of the body in default.” ;

45.2.d

after  subsection (2)  insert—

45.2.d.3

The Secretary of State must consult the regulator before making an order under
subsection (1) or (2).

45.2.d.4

The Secretary of State may also make a transfer order in respect of a local
authority if—

45.2.d.4.a

under  section 58Z7 (2)  the regulator recommends that the Secretary of State
make a transfer order in respect of the authority, and

45.2.d.4.b

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the way in which the authority
exercises its functions under this Act—

45.2.d.4.b.i

falls short of the standards expected, and

45.2.d.4.b.ii

puts, or may put, the safety of persons in or about buildings at risk,

and is likely to continue to do so.

45.2.d.5

The Welsh Ministers may also make a transfer order in respect of a local
authority if the Welsh Ministers are satisfied that the way in which the
authority exercises its functions under this Act—

45.2.d.5.a

falls short of the standards expected, and

45.2.d.5.b

puts, or may put, the safety of persons in or about buildings at risk,

and is likely to continue to do so.

45.2.d.6

A “transfer order”, in respect of a local authority or joint board, is an
order transferring to the appropriate national authority, or to another local
authority, such functions of the authority or board as may be specified in the
order.

45.3

In section 117 (expenses)—

45.3.a

in the heading for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” ;

45.3.b

before subsection (1) insert—

45.3.b.A1

This section applies where the appropriate national authority has transferred
functions to itself by a transfer order under section 116.

45.3.b.A2

Any expenses incurred by the Secretary of State in discharging the transferred
functions are to be paid in the first instance out of money provided by
Parliament.

;

45.3.c

in  subsection (1) —

45.3.c.i

for the words before  paragraph (a)  substitute  “The amount of any expenses
certified by the appropriate national authority as having been incurred by the
authority in discharging the transferred functions” ;

45.3.c.ii

in  paragraph (a)  for “him” substitute  “the authority” ;

45.3.c.iii

in  paragraph (b)  for the words from “him” to the end substitute  “the
authority from the body as a debt due to the authority” ;

45.3.d

in  subsection (2)  for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

45.4

In section 118 (variation or revocation of transfer order)—

45.4.a

in  subsection (1)—

45.4.a.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

45.4.a.ii

for “an order under section 116 (2) ” substitute  “a transfer order under
section 116” ;

45.4.a.iii

for “he” substitute  “it” ;

45.4.b

after  subsection (1)  insert—

45.4.b.1A

The Secretary of State must consult the regulator before making an order under
subsection (1).

;

45.4.c

in  subsection (2)—

45.4.c.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

45.4.c.ii

for “him”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “it” ;

45.4.c.iii

for the words from “by him” to the end substitute  “, by the person to whom
the revoked order transferred functions, in discharging those functions.”

##### Higher-risk building work: registered building control approvers

46

46.1

In section 47 of the Building Act 1984 (giving and acceptance of initial
notice), in subsection (1)(a)—

46.1.a

after “prescribed form” insert  “relating to work that is not higher-risk
building work” ;

46.1.b

after “carry out” insert  “the” .

46.2

In section 51A of the Building Act 1984 (variation of work to which initial
notice relates), for subsection (1) substitute—

46.2.1

This section applies where—

46.2.1.a

it is proposed that the work to which an initial notice relates should be
varied, and

46.2.1.b

the work as varied is not higher-risk building work.

46.3

After section 52 of the Building Act 1984 insert—

########### Cancellation of initial notice when work becomes higher-risk building work

46.3.52A

46.3.52A.1

If, at a time when an initial notice is in force, it appears to the registered
building control approver that some or all of the work has become higher-risk
building work, the registered building control approver must, as soon as is
reasonably practicable, cancel the relevant part of the initial notice by
notice in the prescribed form given to—

46.3.52A.1.a

the local authority concerned, and

46.3.52A.1.b

the person carrying out or intending to carry out the work.

46.3.52A.2

If, at a time when an initial notice is in force, it appears to the person
carrying out or intending to carry out the work that some or all of the work
has become higher-risk building work, the person must, as soon as is
reasonably practicable, cancel the relevant part of the initial notice by
notice in the prescribed form given to—

46.3.52A.2.a

the local authority concerned, and

46.3.52A.2.b

the registered building control approver.

46.3.52A.3

Where a person is required to give a notice under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  in
relation to higher-risk building work in England, the person must, as soon as
is reasonably practicable, give a copy of that notice to the regulator.

46.3.52A.4

If, at a time when an initial notice is in force, it appears to the local
authority concerned that some or all of the work has become higher-risk
building work, the authority must cancel the relevant part of the initial
notice by notice in the prescribed form given to—

46.3.52A.4.a

the registered building control approver, and

46.3.52A.4.b

the person shown in the initial notice as the person intending to carry out
the work.

46.3.52A.5

Where a local authority is required to give a notice under subsection  (4)  in
relation to higher-risk building work in England, the local authority must
give a copy of that notice to the regulator.

46.3.52A.6

A person commits an offence if they fail without reasonable excuse to—

46.3.52A.6.a

give to a local authority a notice that the person is required to give by
subsection  (1)  or  (2) ;

46.3.52A.6.b

give to the regulator a copy of a notice that the person is required to give
by subsection  (3) .

46.3.52A.7

A person guilty of an offence under  subsection (6)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

46.3.52A.8

Where a notice is given under any of subsections  (1) ,  (2)  and  (4)  (a
“cancellation notice”)—

46.3.52A.8.a

the part of the initial notice to which the cancellation notice relates is
cancelled with effect from the day on which the cancellation notice is given,
and

46.3.52A.8.b

a new initial notice may not be given in relation to any of the work to which
the cancelled part of the initial notice related.

46.3.52A.9

In this section “ the relevant part of the initial notice ” means so much of
the initial notice as relates to work that has become higher-risk building
work.

########### Effect of initial notice ceasing to be in force where work becomes higher-risk building work

46.3.52B

46.3.52B.1

This section applies where an initial notice ceases to be in force, whether in
whole or in part, by virtue of section 47(4)(b) (ia)  (higher-risk building
work).

46.3.52B.2

If, before the day on which the relevant part of the initial notice ceased to
be in force, a final certificate—

46.3.52B.2.a

was given in respect of part of the work to which the relevant part of the
initial notice relates, and

46.3.52B.2.b

was accepted by the local authority,

the fact that the relevant part of the initial notice has ceased to be in
force does not affect the continuing operation of section 51(3) in relation to
that part of the work.

46.3.52B.3

The building control authority in relation to any of the uncertified work is—

46.3.52B.3.a

in England, the regulator, and

46.3.52B.3.b

in Wales, the relevant local authority (within the meaning of section  121A
(2) ).

46.3.52B.4

In subsection  (3) , the “ uncertified work ” means any of the work—

46.3.52B.4.a

to which the relevant part of the initial notice relates, and

46.3.52B.4.b

in respect of which no final certificate has been accepted by the local
authority as mentioned in subsection  (2) .

46.3.52B.5

Sections 91 (3)  (duties of the regulator) and  121A (1)  (meaning of “
building control authority ”) apply as if, in each case, the reference to
section  91ZA  or  91ZB  were a reference to section  52B ,  91ZA  or  91ZB .

46.3.52B.6

In any case where this section applies, the reference in subsection (4) of
section 36 to the date of the completion of the work in question has effect,
in relation to a notice under subsection (1) of that section, as if it were a
reference to the date on which the relevant part of the initial notice ceased
to be in force.

46.3.52B.7

In this section “ the relevant part of the initial notice ” means so much of
the initial notice as was cancelled by a notice under section  52A
(cancellation of initial notice when work becomes higher-risk building work).

46.4

In section 47 of the Building Act 1984 (giving and acceptance of initial
notice), in subsection (4)(b)—

46.4.a

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (i);

46.4.b

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

46.4.b.ia

it is cancelled, in whole or in part, by a notice under section  52A ,

.

46.5

In section 55 of the Building Act 1984 (appeals), after subsection (2) insert—

46.5.2A

Where a local authority cancels an initial notice, in whole or in part, by
giving a notice (a “cancellation notice”) under section  52A (4) —

46.5.2A.a

the person shown in the initial notice as the person intending to carry out
the work, or

46.5.2A.b

the registered building control approver,

may appeal to the appropriate court or tribunal.

46.5.2B

On an appeal under subsection  (2A) , the court or tribunal must determine
whether the relevant part of the initial notice was properly cancelled.

46.5.2C

In a case where the court or tribunal determines that the relevant part of the
initial notice was not properly cancelled—

46.5.2C.a

the determination does not have the effect of reinstating the relevant part of
the initial notice;

46.5.2C.b

section  52B (2)  and  (6)  continue to apply in relation to the relevant part
of the initial notice;

46.5.2C.c

a new initial notice relating to any of the work to which the relevant part of
the original initial notice related (the “original work”) may be given only if
the new initial notice—

46.5.2C.c.i

is given before the end of the period of seven days beginning with the day on
which the appeal is determined or such other period as may be prescribed, and

46.5.2C.c.ii

relates to all of the original work, except for any work in respect of which a
final certificate has been accepted by the local authority;

46.5.2C.d

the court or tribunal may give such directions as it considers appropriate in
consequence of the determination (which may include giving directions to the
regulator).

46.5.2D

Where—

46.5.2D.a

a plans certificate has been given in respect of any of the original work,

46.5.2D.b

the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 53(2) are fulfilled with
respect to that certificate, and

46.5.2D.c

a new initial notice as referred to in subsection  (2C) (c)  is accepted,

section 50 (1C)  does not apply in relation to so much of the work to which
the new initial notice relates as is work specified in the plans certificate.

46.5.2E

Where—

46.5.2E.a

a new initial notice is given in accordance with subsection  (2C) (c) , and

46.5.2E.b

the registered building control approver shown in the new initial notice is
different to the registered building control approver shown in the original
initial notice,

sections  53B  to  53E  apply as if any reference in those sections to a new
initial notice given in accordance with section 53(7)(a) were a reference to a
new initial notice given in accordance with section 55 (2C) (c) .

46.5.2F

In this section the “ relevant part of the initial notice ” means so much of
the initial notice as was subject to the cancellation notice.

##### Higher-risk building work: public bodies

47

After section 54 of the Building Act 1984 insert—

######### Public bodies and higher-risk building work

47.54A

47.54A.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make such amendments of
the provisions listed in subsection  (2)  as the authority considers
appropriate in connection with higher-risk building work.

47.54A.2

The provisions are—

47.54A.2.a

section 5;

47.54A.2.b

section 54;

47.54A.2.c

Schedule 4.

##### Insurance: removal of requirements

48

48.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

48.2

In section 47 (giving and acceptance of initial notice)—

48.2.a

in subsection (1) omit paragraph (c) (but not the “and” at the end of it);

48.2.b

omit subsections (6) and (7).

48.3

In section 51A(2) (variation of work to which initial notice relates) omit
paragraph (c) (but not the “and” at the end of it).

48.4

In section 56 (recording and furnishing of information) omit subsection (2).

##### Plans certificates

49

49.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

49.2

In section 50 (plans certificates)—

49.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

49.2.a.1

In this Part a “ plans certificate ” means a certificate by a registered
building control approver that the relevant conditions are met in relation to
the work specified in the certificate (which must be work in relation to which
the approver has given an initial notice).

49.2.a.1A

The relevant conditions are that the registered building control approver—

49.2.a.1A.a

has inspected—

49.2.a.1A.a.i

full plans of the work, or

49.2.a.1A.a.ii

plans of the work that the approver is satisfied are sufficient for the
purposes of giving a plans certificate in relation to the work,

49.2.a.1A.b

is satisfied that the plans are not defective,

49.2.a.1A.c

is satisfied that work carried out in accordance with the plans would not
contravene any provision of building regulations, and

49.2.a.1A.d

has complied with any prescribed requirements as to consultation or otherwise.

49.2.a.1B

Subsection  (1C)  applies if the person intending to carry out work to which
an initial notice relates asks the registered building control approver who
gave the initial notice to give a plans certificate in respect of the work.

49.2.a.1C

If the relevant conditions are met, the approver must give a plans certificate
to the local authority and the person intending to carry out the work.

49.2.a.1D

A plans certificate must be in the prescribed form.

;

49.2.b

in subsection (4) for “certificate under  subsection (1)  above” substitute
“plans certificate” ;

49.2.c

after subsection (7) insert—

49.2.c.7A

Building regulations may make further provision in connection with plans
certificates, including in particular provision—

49.2.c.7A.a

requiring a plans certificate to be given to the local authority in prescribed
cases;

49.2.c.7A.b

about the consequences of failing to comply with such a requirement (for
example, for an initial notice to cease to have effect in whole or in part);

49.2.c.7A.c

requiring a plans certificate stating that the condition in  subsection (1A)
(a) (ii)  is met to include prescribed information about the further plans
that the registered building control approver considers need to be provided.

49.3

In  paragraph 2  of  Schedule 4  (public body’s plans certificates)—

49.3.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

49.3.a.1

In this Part a “ public body’s plans certificate ” means a certificate by a
public body that the relevant conditions are met in relation to the work
specified in the certificate (which must be work in relation to which the
public body has given a public body’s notice).

49.3.a.1A

The relevant conditions are that the public body—

49.3.a.1A.a

is satisfied that—

49.3.a.1A.a.i

a competent person has inspected full plans of the work, or

49.3.a.1A.a.ii

a competent person has inspected plans of the work which the public body is
satisfied, in the light of that inspection, are sufficient for the purposes of
giving a public body’s plans certificate in relation to the work,

49.3.a.1A.b

is satisfied in the light of that inspection that the plans are not defective,

49.3.a.1A.c

is satisfied in the light of that inspection that work carried out in
accordance with the plans would not contravene any provision of building
regulations, and

49.3.a.1A.d

has complied with any prescribed requirements as to consultation or otherwise.

49.3.a.1B

“ Competent person ” means a servant or agent of the public body who is
competent to assess the plans.

49.3.a.1C

If the relevant conditions are met, the public body may give a public body’s
plans certificate to the local authority.

49.3.a.1D

A public body’s plans certificate must be in the prescribed form.

;

49.3.b

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

49.3.b.7

Building regulations may make further provision about public body’s plans
certificates, including in particular provision—

49.3.b.7.a

requiring a public body’s plans certificate to be given to the local authority
in prescribed cases;

49.3.b.7.b

about the consequences of failing to comply with such a requirement (for
example, for a public body’s notice to cease to have effect in whole or in
part);

49.3.b.7.c

requiring a public body’s plans certificate stating that the condition in
sub-paragraph (1A) (a) (ii)  is met to include prescribed information about
the further plans that the public body considers need to be provided.

##### Cancellation of initial notice

50

50.1

Section 52 of the Building Act 1984 (cancellation of initial notice) is
amended in accordance with this section.

50.2

In  subsection (1) —

50.2.a

omit the “or” after  paragraph (b) ;

50.2.b

after  paragraph (c) , insert—

50.2.b.d

the registered building control approver is given a disciplinary order under
section  58U (2) (b)  (variation of registration) such that the registered
building control approver is no longer able to carry out the registered
building control approver’s functions with respect to the work to which the
initial notice relates,

50.2.b.e

the registered building control approver is given a disciplinary order under
section  58U (2) (c)  (suspension of registration) or an order under section
58V  (interim suspension for suspected serious contravention), or

50.2.b.f

it appears to the registered building control approver that a prescribed
circumstance exists,

;

50.2.c

for “approved inspector shall” substitute  “registered building control
approver, or in the case of paragraph (e) the person shown in the initial
notice as the registered building control approver, must” .

50.3

For  subsection (3)  substitute—

50.3.3

If, at a time when an initial notice is in force, it appears to the person
carrying out or intending to carry out the work to which the notice relates
that—

50.3.3.a

the registered building control approver is no longer willing or able to carry
out the registered building control approver’s functions with respect to any
of that work, or

50.3.3.b

a prescribed circumstance exists,

the person must cancel the initial notice by notice in the prescribed form
given to the local authority concerned and, if it is practicable to do so, to
the registered building control approver.

50.4

In  subsection (4) , after “subsection” insert  “(1) or” .

50.5

After  subsection (5)  insert—

50.5.5A

If, at a time when an initial notice is in force, it appears to the local
authority concerned that a condition in subsection  (5B)  is satisfied, the
authority must cancel the initial notice by notice in the prescribed form
given to—

50.5.5A.a

the person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control
approver, and

50.5.5A.b

the person shown in the initial notice as the person intending to carry out
the work.

50.5.5B

The conditions are—

50.5.5B.a

the registered building control approver is given a disciplinary order under
section  58U (2) (b)  (variation of registration) such that the registered
building control approver is no longer able to carry out the registered
building control approver’s functions with respect to the work to which the
initial notice relates;

50.5.5B.b

the registered building control approver is given a disciplinary order under
section  58U (2) (c)  (suspension of registration) or an order under section
58V  (interim suspension for suspected serious contravention);

50.5.5B.c

the registered building control approver is given a disciplinary order under
section  58U (2) (d)  (cancellation of registration);

50.5.5B.d

the registered building control approver has their registration cancelled
under section  58Z6 (2)  (serious contravention notices);

50.5.5B.e

a prescribed circumstance exists.

50.6

After  subsection (6)  insert—

50.6.7

Before cancelling an initial notice under subsection  (5A)  based on a
condition in subsection  (5B) (a) ,  (b)  or  (e) , the local authority must—

50.6.7.a

give the person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control
approver a notice in the prescribed form at least seven days before the day on
which the initial notice is to be cancelled, and

50.6.7.b

have regard to any representations made to the local authority during that
period.

##### New initial notices

51

51.1

In section 53 of the Building Act 1984 (effect of initial notice ceasing to be
in force), for subsection (7) substitute—

51.1.7

A new initial notice relating to any of the work to which the original initial
notice related (the “original work”) may be given only if—

51.1.7.a

in the case of an initial notice that ceases to be in force by virtue of—

51.1.7.a.i

being cancelled under section 52(1)(d) or (e),

51.1.7.a.ii

being cancelled under section 52 (5A)  based on a condition in section 52 (5B)
(a)  to  (d) , or

51.1.7.a.iii

such other provision as may be prescribed,

the conditions in subsection  (8)  are met, or

51.1.7.b

in any other case, the conditions in subsection  (9)  are met.

51.1.8

The conditions referred to in subsection  (7) (a)  are that the new initial
notice—

51.1.8.a

is given before the end of the period of seven days beginning with the day on
which the original initial notice ceased to be in force or such other period
as may be prescribed,

51.1.8.b

relates to all of the original work, except for any work in respect of which a
final certificate has been accepted by the local authority, and

51.1.8.c

is not a combined initial notice and plans certificate given in accordance
with section 50(4).

51.1.9

The conditions referred to in subsection  (7) (b)  are that—

51.1.9.a

before the original initial notice ceases to be in force, the original
registered building control approver has given a final certificate under
section 51 in respect of any part of the work which they are satisfied has
been completed, and

51.1.9.b

the new initial notice relates to all of the original work, except for any
work in respect of which a final certificate has been accepted by the local
authority.

51.1.10

Where—

51.1.10.a

a plans certificate has been given in respect of any of the original work,

51.1.10.b

the conditions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) are fulfilled with
respect to that certificate, and

51.1.10.c

a new initial notice as referred to in subsection  (7)  is accepted,

section 50 (1C)  does not apply in relation to so much of the work to which
the new initial notice relates as is work specified in the plans certificate.

51.1.11

Section 53B applies in relation to a new initial notice given in accordance
with subsection  (7) (a) .

51.1.12

The appropriate national authority may issue guidance about the process for—

51.1.12.a

the giving of a new initial notice under subsection  (7) ;

51.1.12.b

the giving of a transfer certificate and a transfer report under section  53B
;

51.1.12.c

the consideration of a transfer certificate and a transfer report under
section  53C .

51.1.13

The appropriate national authority may revise or withdraw any issued guidance.

51.1.14

The following must have regard to guidance issued under subsection  (12) —

51.1.14.a

a local authority;

51.1.14.b

a registered building control approver;

51.1.14.c

a person carrying out or intending to carry out work to which a new initial
notice given under subsection  (7)  relates.

51.2

After section  53A  of the Building Act 1984 (inserted by section 36) insert—

########### New initial notice: change of registered building control approver

51.2.53B

51.2.53B.1

This section applies where a new initial notice is given in accordance with
section 53 (7) (a)  (change of registered building control approver in certain
cases).

51.2.53B.2

Where the new initial notice is accepted by the local authority the registered
building control approver must take all reasonable steps to determine whether
the unfinished work contravenes any provision of building regulations
(including where necessary by carrying out inspections and laying open any
work).

51.2.53B.3

If the registered building control approver determines that the unfinished
work does not contravene any provision of building regulations, the approver
must give a transfer certificate and a transfer report to the local authority
before the end of the relevant period.

51.2.53B.4

If the registered building control approver is unable to make the
determination referred to in subsection  (3) , the approver must—

51.2.53B.4.a

give the person carrying out or intending to carry out the work a notice
setting out why they were unable to make the determination, and

51.2.53B.4.b

give a copy of that notice to the local authority.

51.2.53B.5

A transfer certificate must—

51.2.53B.5.a

confirm that the registered building control approver has determined that the
unfinished work up to the date of the certificate does not contravene any
provision of building regulations, and

51.2.53B.5.b

contain the prescribed information.

51.2.53B.6

A transfer report must contain any plans, documents or other information
related to the confirmation in subsection  (5) (a) .

51.2.53B.7

In this section the “ relevant period ” means—

51.2.53B.7.a

the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the new initial notice
is accepted or such other period as may be prescribed, or

51.2.53B.7.b

such longer period as may be agreed by the local authority following a request
from the registered building control approver.

51.2.53B.8

A transfer certificate given by a registered building control approver—

51.2.53B.8.a

does not impose any liability, whether civil or criminal, on the registered
building control approver for any work carried out by the previous registered
building control approver, and

51.2.53B.8.b

does not affect any liability, whether civil or criminal, of the previous
registered building control approver for work carried out by that approver.

51.2.53B.9

In this section “ unfinished work ” means all of the work to which the
original initial notice related, except for any work in respect of which a
final certificate was accepted by the local authority.

########### Consideration of transfer certificate and report

51.2.53C

51.2.53C.1

This section applies where a registered building control approver gives a
transfer certificate and a transfer report to a local authority in accordance
with section  53B (3) .

51.2.53C.2

The local authority must, by notice, accept or reject the certificate and
report before the end of the relevant period.

51.2.53C.3

The local authority may reject the certificate and report only if—

51.2.53C.3.a

any of the prescribed grounds exist, or

51.2.53C.3.b

the registered building control approver fails to comply with a requirement in
subsection  (4)  to give information to the local authority.

51.2.53C.4

During the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the transfer
certificate and transfer report is given to the local authority or such other
period as may be prescribed, the local authority may, by notice, require the
registered building control approver to give to the local authority such
information as may be specified in the notice.

51.2.53C.5

The registered building control approver must give the information specified
in the notice to the local authority before the end of the period of seven
days beginning with the day on which the notice is given or such other period
as may be prescribed.

51.2.53C.6

In this section the “ relevant period ” means—

51.2.53C.6.a

the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the transfer certificate
and transfer report is given to the local authority or such other period as
may be prescribed, or

51.2.53C.6.b

such longer period as is determined in accordance with subsection  (7) .

51.2.53C.7

Where—

51.2.53C.7.a

a local authority requires a registered building control approver to give
information to the local authority under subsection  (4) , and

51.2.53C.7.b

the day by which the information is required to be given would (but for this
subsection) fall within the final seven days of the relevant period or would
fall outside the relevant period,

the relevant period is to be extended to the end of the period of seven days
beginning with the day after the day by which the information is required to
be given.

51.2.53C.8

Where a local authority requires a registered building control approver to
give information to the local authority under subsection  (4) , the local
authority must give a copy of the notice to the person shown in the initial
notice as the person intending to carry out the work.

########### Cancellation of initial notice: change of registered building control approver

51.2.53D

51.2.53D.1

This section applies where—

51.2.53D.1.a

a new initial notice is given in accordance with section 53 (7) (a)  (change
of registered building control approver in certain cases), and

51.2.53D.1.b

the notice is accepted by the local authority.

51.2.53D.2

If, at a time when the initial notice is in force—

51.2.53D.2.a

the registered building control approver does not give the local authority a
transfer certificate and transfer report in accordance with section  53B (3) ,
or

51.2.53D.2.b

the local authority rejects the transfer certificate and transfer report in
accordance with section  53C ,

the local authority must cancel the initial notice by notice in the prescribed
form given to the registered building control approver and the person shown in
the initial notice as the person intending to carry out the work.

51.2.53D.3

The person carrying out or intending to carry out the work to which the
initial notice relates may, at a time—

51.2.53D.3.a

when the initial notice is in force, and

51.2.53D.3.b

before the local authority accepts or rejects the transfer certificate and
report in accordance with section  53C ,

cancel the initial notice by notice in the prescribed form given to the local
authority and, if it is practicable to do so, to the registered building
control approver.

51.2.53D.4

A notice under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  has the effect of cancelling the
initial notice to which it relates with effect from the day on which the
notice is given.

51.2.53D.5

Where an initial notice ceases to be in force by virtue of subsection  (2)  or
(3) , a new initial notice may not, except in prescribed circumstances, be
given in relation to any of the work to which the cancelled notice related.

51.2.53D.6

Where an initial notice ceases to be in force by virtue of subsection  (2)  or
(3) —

51.2.53D.6.a

for the purpose of enabling the local authority to perform the functions
referred to in section 48(1) in relation to any part of the work, building
regulations may require the local authority to be provided with plans that
relate to that part of the work, and

51.2.53D.6.b

section 53(5) applies in relation to the notice as it applies in relation to
an initial notice that ceases to be in force as referred to in section 53(1).

51.2.53D.7

This section is without prejudice to any other provisions of this Part
relating to when an initial notice ceases to be in force.

########### Restriction on functions of registered building control approvers

51.2.53E

51.2.53E.1

This section applies where—

51.2.53E.1.a

a new initial notice is given in accordance with section 53 (7) (a)  (change
of registered building control approver in certain cases), and

51.2.53E.1.b

the notice is accepted by the local authority.

51.2.53E.2

During the period in respect of which—

51.2.53E.2.a

the notice is in force, but

51.2.53E.2.b

a transfer certificate and a transfer report have not been accepted by the
local authority,

the registered building control approver may not exercise the relevant
functions.

51.2.53E.3

In this section the “relevant functions” are the functions of a registered
building control approver under, or under regulations made under—

51.2.53E.3.a

section 50 (plans certificates);

51.2.53E.3.b

section 51 (final certificates);

51.2.53E.3.c

section 51A (amendment notices).

51.3

In section 47 of the Building Act 1984 (giving and acceptance of initial
notice)—

51.3.a

in  subsection (4) (b) , after sub-paragraph  (ia)  (inserted by section 46)
insert—

51.3.a.ib

it is cancelled by a notice under section  53D , or

;

51.3.b

after subsection (7) insert—

51.3.b.8

This section is subject to sections 53 and  53B  (new initial notices).

51.4

In section 55 of the Building Act 1984 (appeals)—

51.4.a

in  subsection (1) —

51.4.a.i

omit the “or” after  paragraph (a) ;

51.4.a.ii

after  paragraph (b)  insert

or

51.4.a.ii.c

a transfer certificate and a transfer report,

;

51.4.b

in  subsection (2) (a), after “notice” insert  “, report” ;

51.4.c

in  subsection (2) (b), after “notice” insert  “, report” .

##### Information gathering

52

52.1

In section 53 of the Building Act 1984 (effect of initial notice ceasing to be
in force), after subsection (4) insert—

52.1.4A

For the purpose of enabling the local authority to perform the functions
referred to in section 48(1), the local authority may by notice require the
person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control approver
to give the local authority—

52.1.4A.a

any information the authority would have obtained if the authority had
performed the function of enforcing building regulations in relation to the
work to which the initial notice relates during the period in which the
initial notice was in force, and

52.1.4A.b

any other information the local authority may reasonably require.

52.1.4B

Where a person is required to give information under subsection  (4A) , the
information must be given before the end of the prescribed period.

52.1.4C

The person shown in the initial notice as the registered building control
approver (the “outgoing approver”) must, before the end of the prescribed
period, give the person carrying out or intending to carry out the work to
which the initial notice relates—

52.1.4C.a

any information given to a local authority under subsection  (4A) ,

52.1.4C.b

any other information that the outgoing approver obtained or created in
relation to the work during the period in which the initial notice was in
force, and

52.1.4C.c

any other information that the person carrying out or intending to carry out
the work may by notice reasonably require for the purpose of enabling a person
other than the outgoing approver to perform the functions referred to in
section 48(1) in relation to the work.

52.1.4D

A notice under subsection  (4C) (c) —

52.1.4D.a

may only require information to be given in relation to work carried out
during the period in which the initial notice was in force;

52.1.4D.b

may require information to be provided in a specified format.

52.2

In section 57 of the Building Act 1984 (offences), in subsection (1)—

52.2.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (a);

52.2.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

52.2.b.aa

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement under section 53
(4A)  to give information, or

.

##### Information

53

53.1

After section 56 of the Building Act 1984 insert—

########### Giving information by electronic means: England

53.1.56A

53.1.56A.1

The regulator must establish and maintain a facility (the “facility”) to
enable a specified person to give specified relevant information to another
person by electronic communication.

53.1.56A.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations require or authorise a specified
person to use the facility when giving specified relevant information to
another person.

53.1.56A.3

Any information given to a person in accordance with regulations made under
subsection  (2)  is to be treated for the purposes of section  56B
(requirement to keep register) as also having been given to the regulator.

53.1.56A.4

Regulations under this section may require a person who is given specified
relevant information otherwise than through the facility to give that
information to the regulator using the facility.

53.1.56A.5

Regulations under this section may make provision treating specified relevant
information that is given using the facility as having been given in the
prescribed form for the purposes of this Part.

53.1.56A.6

In this section—

“ relevant information ” means information that is required or authorised to
be given by this Part or regulations made under it; “ specified ” means
specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State under this section.

53.1.56A.7

In this section and section  56B —

“ information ” includes documents; “ documents ” includes notices,
certificates, orders, consents, demands and plans.

53.1.56A.8

The Secretary of State may make regulations under this section only in
relation to England.

########### Requirement to keep register: England

53.1.56B

53.1.56B.1

The regulator must keep a register of specified relevant information.

53.1.56B.2

The information that may be specified for the purposes of subsection  (1)
includes in particular information given, or treated as having been given, to
the regulator using the facility established under section  56A (1) .

53.1.56B.3

The regulator—

53.1.56B.3.a

must maintain the register in electronic form;

53.1.56B.3.b

must ensure that any specified parts of the register are available for
inspection by members of the public;

53.1.56B.3.c

must, in specified circumstances, provide to members of the public, on
request, copies of information kept in the register.

53.1.56B.4

In this section—

“ relevant information ” means information that is required or authorised to
be given by this Part or regulations made under it; “ specified ” means
specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State under this section.

53.1.56B.5

The Secretary of State may make regulations under this section only in
relation to England.

########### Delegation of functions

53.1.56C

53.1.56C.1

The regulator may by written notice delegate to a person, to such extent and
subject to such conditions as the regulator considers appropriate, the
functions conferred on the regulator by—

53.1.56C.1.a

section  56A (1) ;

53.1.56C.1.b

section  56B (1)  and  (3)  (including the ability to charge fees in
connection with the exercise of those functions).

53.1.56C.2

In subsection  (1)  “ fees ” means fees that are prescribed by, or determined
by the regulator in accordance with, regulations under section  105B .

53.1.56C.3

The regulator may delegate different functions to different persons under
subsection  (1) .

53.1.56C.4

The regulator may delegate functions under subsection  (1)  only with the
consent of the Secretary of State.

53.1.56C.5

The regulator may revoke a delegation of functions to a person by giving a
written notice to the person.

53.1.56C.6

The regulator may revoke a delegation under subsection  (5)  only with the
consent of the Secretary of State.

53.1.56C.7

Schedule  3  to the Building Safety Act 2022 (information sharing) applies as
if references to the regulator included references to a person to whom the
regulator has delegated functions under subsection  (1) (b) .

53.2

In section 55 of the Building Act 1984 (appeals), after subsection (3) insert—

53.2.4

On an appeal under subsection (1), the local authority must give the specified
information to the regulator.

53.2.5

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State under this section.

53.2.6

The Secretary of State may make regulations under this section only in
relation to England.

53.3

In section 56 of the Building Act 1984 (recording and furnishing of
information)—

53.3.a

in subsection (1)—

53.3.a.i

after “authority” insert  “in Wales” ;

53.3.a.ii

after “public body’s notices” insert  “, transfer reports” ;

53.3.a.iii

after “such notices” insert  “, reports” ;

53.3.b

in subsection (3), after “plans certificates, final certificates” insert  “,
transfer certificates” ;

53.3.c

in subsection (4), after “section” insert  “by a local authority in Wales” .

#### Miscellaneous and general

##### Functions under Part 3 of Building Act 1984

54

In the Building Act 1984 after section 90 insert—

######### Functions under this Part: the regulator etc

54.90A

54.90A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that in specified cases, a
specified function under this Part of local authorities in England is to be a
function of the regulator instead of, or in addition to, the local authority
in question.

54.90A.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that in specified cases, a
relevant authority proposing to exercise a specified function under this Part
must notify a specified relevant authority of specified matters.

54.90A.3

The notification must be made in the specified way and by the specified time.

54.90A.4

In this section—

“ relevant authority ” means the regulator or a local authority for an area in
England; “ specified ” means specified by regulations under this section.

##### Minor and consequential amendments

55

Schedule 5  contains—

55.a

minor amendments of the Building Act 1984, and

55.b

amendments consequential on provision made by  this Part .

##### Appeals

56

Schedule 6  makes provision about appeals under the Building Act 1984,
including provision providing for—

56.a

certain appeals to be made to the regulator instead of the Secretary of State,

56.b

certain appeals relating to buildings in England to be made to the tribunal
instead of a magistrates’ court, and

56.c

a right of appeal against a decision of a local authority not to consider
certain applications or notices on the ground that they are in respect of
higher-risk building work.

##### Fees and charges

57

In the Building Act 1984 after  section 105A  (inserted by  paragraph 29  of
Schedule 6 ) insert—

######### Fees, charges and levies

########## Fees and charges

57.105B

57.105B.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make provision
authorising a relevant authority—

57.105B.1.a

to charge fees, and

57.105B.1.b

to recover charges,

for or in connection with the performance of any of its functions under, or
under an instrument made under, this Act.

57.105B.2

The regulations may—

57.105B.2.a

prescribe a fee or charge, or

57.105B.2.b

provide for the amount of any fee or charge to be determined by the relevant
authority in accordance with the regulations;

and may make provision about the effect of failing to pay a fee or charge in
accordance with the regulations.

57.105B.3

The regulations may in particular—

57.105B.3.a

provide that the amount of any charge is to be determined by the relevant
authority in accordance with a scheme made and published by it, and

57.105B.3.b

make provision about such schemes, including the principles to be embodied in
such schemes.

57.105B.4

In this section “ relevant authority ” means—

57.105B.4.a

in relation to England, the regulator or a local authority for an area in
England;

57.105B.4.b

in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers or a local authority for an area in
Wales.

##### Levy on applications for building control approval etc

58

In the Building Act 1984 after  section 105B  (inserted by section 57) insert—

######### Levy on certain applications for building control approval etc

58.105C

58.105C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with the imposition, in respect of relevant applications or notices or
specified descriptions of relevant applications or notices, of a levy for the
purpose of meeting any building safety expenditure.

58.105C.2

The levy is payable to the Secretary of State or a person designated by the
Secretary of State.

58.105C.3

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

58.105C.3.a

the amount of the levy;

58.105C.3.b

the person by whom it must be paid;

58.105C.3.c

when the levy must be paid;

58.105C.3.d

the provision of information or documents to, or by, the Secretary of State or
designated person;

58.105C.3.e

the consequences of a failure to pay the levy in accordance with the
regulations;

58.105C.3.f

the determination of disputes (including provision conferring a right to
appeal to the tribunal and provision about appeals).

58.105C.4

The different provision that may be made by the regulations by virtue of
section 120A(2)(b) includes in particular different provision in relation to—

58.105C.4.a

persons who are eligible to be members of a building industry scheme and are
not members of that scheme, and

58.105C.4.b

other persons.

58.105C.5

The regulations may contain exemptions, for specified descriptions of person.

58.105C.6

The regulations may provide that, unless the building control authority is
given a notification under subsection  (7)  in relation to a relevant
application or notice (or a relevant application or notice of a specified
description), the authority—

58.105C.6.a

may not take a specified step in relation to the application or notice (for
example, may not grant an application, accept a notice or give a specified
certificate in relation to works connected with the application or notice), or

58.105C.6.b

must take a specified step in relation to the application or notice (for
example, must reject a notice).

58.105C.7

A notification under this section is a notification given by the Secretary of
State or designated person—

58.105C.7.a

that the levy payable in respect of the application or notice has been paid,
or

58.105C.7.b

that no levy is payable in respect of the application or notice.

58.105C.8

The regulations must provide for any amount received by a designated person by
way of a levy to be paid to the Secretary of State, subject to retention of an
amount, determined by or in accordance with the regulations, in respect of the
costs of administering the levy.

58.105C.9

A designation under this section must be published in such way as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate.

58.105C.10

In this section “ relevant application or notice ” means—

58.105C.10.a

an application for building control approval,

58.105C.10.b

an initial notice,

58.105C.10.c

an amendment notice, or

58.105C.10.d

a public body’s notice,

relating to a relevant building or proposed relevant building (including any
such application or notice relating to work that causes a building to become a
relevant building or causes a relevant building to cease to be such a
building).

58.105C.11

In this section—

“ amendment notice, “initial notice” and “public body’s notice ” have the same
meaning as in Part 2 (see section 58); “ building industry scheme ” means a
scheme established under section 126 of the Building Safety Act 2022; “
building safety expenditure ” means expenditure incurred by the Secretary of
State (whether before or after the passing of this Act) in providing financial
assistance to persons (whether by way of grant, loan or otherwise) for the
purposes of enabling them to improve the safety of persons in or about
buildings in England; “ relevant building ” means a building in England
consisting of or containing— one or more dwellings, or other accommodation,
(and “accommodation” here includes temporary accommodation, for example in a
hotel or hospital); “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

##### Crown application

59

In Part 5 of the Building Act 1984 before section 132 insert—

######### Crown application

59.131A

59.131A.1

The following provisions bind the Crown—

59.131A.1.a

Part 1 except sections 35B to 37, 39A and 40;

59.131A.1.b

Part 2;

59.131A.1.c

Part 2A except sections 58I to 58K, 58U, 58V and 58Z4 to 58Z6;

59.131A.1.d

Part 4 so far as it relates to a provision within any of the preceding
paragraphs.

59.131A.2

No contravention by the Crown of a provision within subsection (1)(a) to (d)
makes the Crown criminally liable.

59.131A.3

Subsection  (2)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

59.131A.4

Subsection (5) applies where—

59.131A.4.a

a contravention of a provision within subsection (1)(a) or (b), or of Part 4
so far as it relates to such a provision, occurs in relation to a building or
proposed building for which a local authority is the building control
authority, or

59.131A.4.b

a contravention of a provision within subsection (1)(c), or of Part 4 so far
as it relates to such a provision, occurs in relation to Wales,

and the Crown would, but for subsection (2), be criminally liable under this
Act in respect of the contravention.

59.131A.5

The High Court may, on the application of—

59.131A.5.a

the local authority (in a case within subsection (4)(a)), or

59.131A.5.b

the Welsh Ministers (in a case within subsection (4)(b)),

declare unlawful the act or omission constituting the contravention.

59.131A.6

In this section a reference to a provision includes any instrument made under
it.

59.131A.7

For the application to the Crown of Part 3, and Part 4 so far as it relates to
that Part, see section 87.

##### Application to Parliament

60

60.1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

60.2

In section 95 (power to enter premises) after subsection (4) insert—

60.2.5

This section does not apply in relation to the Parliamentary Estate (as
defined by section 131B).

60.3

After section 131A (inserted by section 59) insert—

########### Parts 1 and 2 etc: application to Parliament

60.3.131B

60.3.131B.1

In their application in relation to the Parliamentary Estate, Parts 1 and 2,
and Part 4 so far as it relates to those Parts, have effect with the following
modifications—

60.3.131B.1.a

sections 35B to 37, 39A and 40 (enforcement etc) do not apply;

60.3.131B.1.b

any reference to the owner or occupier of a building or of any premises is be
read as a reference to—

60.3.131B.1.b.i

the Corporate Officer of the House of Lords,

60.3.131B.1.b.ii

the Corporate Officer of the House of Commons, or (as the case may be)

60.3.131B.1.b.iii

the Corporate Officers acting jointly.

60.3.131B.2

In the following provisions—

“ Corporate Officer ” means— the Corporate Officer of the House of Lords, the
Corporate Officer of the House of Commons, or the Corporate Officers acting
jointly; “ relevant provision ” means— any provision of, or of an instrument
made under, Part 1 or 2, or any provision of Part 4 or of an instrument made
under Part 4, so far as the provision relates to Part 1 or 2.

60.3.131B.3

No contravention by a Corporate Officer of a relevant provision makes the
Corporate Officer criminally liable.

60.3.131B.4

Subsection (3) does not affect the criminal liability of relevant members of
the House of Lords staff or of the House of Commons staff (as defined by
sections 194 and 195 of the Employment Rights Act 1996).

60.3.131B.5

Where a contravention of a relevant provision occurs which, but for subsection
(3), would result in a Corporate Officer being criminally liable, the High
Court may, on the application of the local authority, declare unlawful the act
or omission constituting the contravention.

60.3.131B.6

In this section “ the Parliamentary Estate ” means any building or other
premises occupied for the purposes of either House of Parliament.

### Higher-risk buildings

#### Introduction

##### Overview of Part

61

61.1

This Part  contains provisions about the management of building safety risks
as regards occupied higher-risk buildings.

61.2

In  this Part —

61.2.a

sections 62 to 64 define “building safety risk” and make related provision;

61.2.b

sections 65 to 70 define “higher-risk building”, make related provision, and
confer power to modify  this Part  as it applies in relation to any
description of higher-risk building;

61.2.c

sections 71 to 75 contain other key definitions, including—

61.2.c.i

when a building is “occupied”;

61.2.c.ii

the definition of “accountable person” and “principal accountable person”;

and provide that the First-tier Tribunal may determine who is an accountable
person or the principal accountable person for a higher-risk building;

61.2.d

sections 76 to 82  make provision about the registration of higher-risk
buildings and about building assessment certificates;

61.2.e

sections 83 to 86 make provision about the assessment and management of
building safety risks, including provision requiring a safety case report to
be prepared and revised;

61.2.f

sections 87 to 90 contain provisions about the keeping and giving of
information and documents to the regulator, other accountable persons,
residents and others;

61.2.g

sections 91 to 94 contain provisions about engagement with residents etc,
including—

61.2.g.i

provision requiring a residents’ engagement strategy to be prepared and
revised;

61.2.g.ii

provision requiring complaints systems to be established and operated;

61.2.h

sections 95 to 97 impose duties on residents and make provision for the
enforcement of those duties;

61.2.i

section 98 to 101 contain provisions about the enforcement of  this Part ;

61.2.j

section 102 and  Schedule 7  provide for the appointment of a special measures
manager, to undertake duties under  this Part  in place of an accountable
person, and make further provision in connection with that appointment;

61.2.k

sections 103 to 107 contain provisions about appeals;

61.2.l

sections 108 to 111 contain miscellaneous provisions, including provision
about cooperation and coordination;

61.2.m

sections 112 to 114 provide for certain terms to be implied into leases, and
contain other provisions affecting the relationship between landlord and
tenant or affecting commonholds;

61.2.n

section 115 contains definitions applying for the purposes of  this Part .

#### Meaning of “building safety risk”

##### Meaning of “building safety risk”

62

62.1

In  this Part  “ building safety risk ” means a risk to the safety of people
in or about a building arising from any of the following occurring as regards
the building—

62.1.a

the spread of fire;

62.1.b

structural failure;

62.1.c

any other prescribed matter.

62.2

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) (c) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

62.2.a

the regulator, and

62.2.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

62.3

But the regulator need not be consulted if—

62.3.a

the regulations give effect to a recommendation made by the regulator under
section 63, or

62.3.b

the Secretary of State has under section 64 asked the regulator for its advice
in relation to a proposal to make the regulations.

##### Recommendations about regulations under section 62

63

63.1

The regulator may recommend that the Secretary of State makes regulations
under section 62.

63.2

The regulator may make a recommendation to prescribe a matter under section 62
(1) (c)  for any higher-risk building only if it considers that if the matter
occurred as regards a higher-risk building it would have the potential to
cause a major incident.

63.3

The regulator may make a recommendation to prescribe a matter under section 62
(1) (c)  for a description of higher-risk building only if it considers that
if the matter occurred as regards a higher-risk building of that description
it would have the potential to cause a major incident.

63.4

The regulator may make a recommendation to prescribe a matter under section 62
(1) (c)  for a description of building that is not a higher-risk building only
if—

63.4.a

it considers that—

63.4.a.i

if the matter occurred as regards a building of that description it would have
the potential to cause a major incident,

63.4.a.ii

the risk of the matter occurring is greater for that description of buildings
than it is for buildings that are not of that description, and

63.4.a.iii

this Part  should apply (with or without modifications) in relation to
buildings of that description, and

63.4.b

it also recommends that buildings of that description should be higher-risk
buildings for the purposes of  this Part  (and, if section 69 (2) (b)
applies, makes a recommendation of the kind mentioned there).

63.5

The regulator may make a recommendation to make regulations that would result
in a matter ceasing to be prescribed under section 62 (1) (c)  only if—

63.5.a

where the matter is prescribed for any higher-risk building, it considers that
if the matter occurred as regards a higher-risk building it would not have the
potential to cause a major incident;

63.5.b

where the matter is prescribed for a description of higher-risk building, it
considers that if the matter occurred as regards a higher-risk building of
that description it would not have the potential to cause a major incident.

63.6

When making a recommendation, the regulator must give the Secretary of State a
statement of its assessment of the issues it considered when deciding to make
the recommendation.

63.7

If following a recommendation the Secretary of State decides not to make the
regulations, the Secretary of State must publish a document setting out—

63.7.a

the regulator’s recommendation,

63.7.b

the Secretary of State’s decision not to make the regulations, and

63.7.c

the reasons for that decision.

63.8

In  this Part  “ major incident ” means an incident resulting in—

63.8.a

a significant number of deaths, or

63.8.b

serious injury to a significant number of people.

##### Advice about regulations under section 62

64

Where the Secretary of State asks the regulator to provide advice about a
proposal to make regulations under section 62, it must provide that advice.

#### Meaning of “higher-risk building”

##### Meaning of “higher-risk building” etc

65

65.1

In  this Part  “ higher-risk building ” means a building in England that—

65.1.a

is at least 18 metres in height or has at least 7 storeys, and

65.1.b

contains at least 2 residential units.

65.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision supplementing this
section.

65.3

The regulations may in particular—

65.3.a

define “building” or “ storey ” for the purposes of this section;

65.3.b

make provision about how the height of a building is to be determined for
those purposes;

65.3.c

provide that “ higher-risk building ” does not include a building of a
prescribed description.

65.4

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (3) (a)  may in particular define
“building” so as to provide that it includes—

65.4.a

any other structure or erection of any kind (whether temporary or permanent);

65.4.b

any vehicle, vessel or other movable object of any kind, in such circumstances
as may be prescribed.

65.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section (other than
subsection (2)  or  this subsection ).

65.6

For the meaning of “residential unit” see section 115.

##### Regulations under section 65: procedure

66

66.1

Before making regulations under section 65, the Secretary of State must
consult—

66.1.a

the regulator, and

66.1.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

66.2

But the regulator need not be consulted if—

66.2.a

the regulations give effect to a recommendation made by the regulator under
section 63 (4)  or 69, or

66.2.b

the Secretary of State has under section 70 asked the regulator for advice
about the description of building in question.

##### Regulations under section 65: additional procedure in certain cases

67

67.1

This section applies if the Secretary of State proposes to make regulations
under section 65 that would result in a description of building (including
anything within  subsection (4)  of that section) becoming a higher-risk
building for the purposes of  this Part .

67.2

The Secretary of State must ask the regulator under section 70 (1)  for advice
about the description of building, except where the regulations would give
effect to a recommendation under section 69 (2) .

67.3

The Secretary of State must carry out a cost-benefit analysis and publish it.

67.4

In this section “ cost-benefit analysis ” means—

67.4.a

an analysis of the costs together with an analysis of the benefits that will
arise if the regulations are made, and

67.4.b

an estimate of those costs and of those benefits (subject to  subsection (5)
).

67.5

If, in the opinion of the Secretary of State—

67.5.a

the costs or benefits cannot reasonably be estimated, or

67.5.b

it is not reasonably practicable to produce an estimate,

the cost-benefit analysis need not estimate them, but must include a statement
of the Secretary of State’s opinion and an explanation of it.

##### Modification of Part in relation to certain kinds of higher-risk building

68

68.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations modifying  this Part  as it
applies in relation to a prescribed description of higher-risk building.

68.2

Before making the regulations, the Secretary of State must consult—

68.2.a

the regulator, and

68.2.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

68.3

But the regulator need not be consulted if the regulations give effect to a
recommendation under section 63 (4) , 69 or 70.

##### Recommendations about definition of “higher-risk building” etc

69

69.1

Subsection (2)  applies if, in respect of any description of building that is
not a higher-risk building, the regulator considers—

69.1.a

that a building safety risk is greater for that description of buildings than
it is for buildings that are not of that description,

69.1.b

that if the risk materialised as regards a building of that description it
would have the potential to cause a major incident, and

69.1.c

that  this Part  should apply (with or without modifications) in relation to
buildings of that description.

69.2

The regulator must—

69.2.a

recommend to the Secretary of State that buildings of that description should
be higher-risk buildings for the purposes of  this Part ,

69.2.b

if it considers that regulations under section 68 should be made modifying
this Part  as it applies in relation to that description of building, make a
recommendation to the Secretary of State to that effect, and

69.2.c

give the Secretary of State a statement of its assessment of the issues it
considered when deciding to make the recommendation under  paragraph (a)  and
any recommendation under  paragraph (b) .

69.3

Subsection (4)  applies if—

69.3.a

following a recommendation under  subsection (2) (a)  the Secretary of State
decides not to make regulations under section 65 giving effect to the
recommendation, or

69.3.b

following a recommendation under  subsection (2) (b)  the Secretary of State
decides not to make regulations under section 68 giving effect to the
recommendation.

69.4

The Secretary of State must publish a document setting out—

69.4.a

the regulator’s recommendation,

69.4.b

the Secretary of State’s decision not to make the regulations, and

69.4.c

the reasons for that decision.

69.5

If the regulator considers that  this Part  should not apply in relation to a
particular description of higher-risk building, it must recommend to the
Secretary of State that buildings of that description should cease to be
higher-risk buildings for the purposes of  this Part .

69.6

For the meaning of “major incident” see section 63.

##### Advice about definition of “higher-risk building” etc

70

70.1

Subsections (2)  to  (6)  apply if the Secretary of State asks the regulator
for advice as to whether a specified description of building should be a
higher-risk building for the purposes of  this Part .

70.2

The regulator must consider whether the following conditions are met—

70.2.a

the first condition is that a building safety risk is greater for that
description of buildings than it is for buildings that are not of that
description;

70.2.b

the second condition is that, if the risk materialised as regards a building
of that description, it would have the potential to cause a major incident;

70.2.c

the third condition is that buildings of that description should be higher-
risk buildings for the purposes of  this Part .

70.3

The regulator must—

70.3.a

if the conditions mentioned in  subsection (2)  are met, recommend to the
Secretary of State that buildings of that description should be higher-risk
buildings for the purposes of  this Part ;

70.3.b

otherwise, recommend to the Secretary of State that buildings of that
description should not be higher-risk buildings for those purposes.

70.4

Where the regulator—

70.4.a

makes a recommendation under  subsection (3) (a) , and

70.4.b

considers that regulations under section 68 should be made modifying  this
Part  as it applies in relation to buildings of the specified description,

it must make a recommendation to the Secretary of State to that effect.

70.5

The regulator must give the Secretary of State a statement of its assessment
of the issues it considered when deciding to make the recommendation under
subsection (3)  and any recommendation under  subsection (4) .

70.6

If, following a recommendation under  subsection (3) (a) , the Secretary of
State decides not to make regulations under section 65 giving effect to the
recommendation, the Secretary of State must publish a document setting out—

70.6.a

the regulator’s recommendation,

70.6.b

the Secretary of State’s decision not to make the regulations, and

70.6.c

the reasons for that decision.

70.7

If requested, the regulator must provide advice to the Secretary of State as
to whether higher-risk buildings of a specified description should cease to be
higher-risk buildings for the purposes of  this Part .

70.8

In this section “ specified ” means specified by the Secretary of State in the
request.

#### Meaning of “accountable person” and other key definitions

##### Meaning of “occupied” higher-risk building etc

71

71.1

The following provisions apply for the purposes of  this Part .

71.2

A higher-risk building is “occupied” if there are residents of more than one
residential unit in the building.

71.3

A reference to a resident of a higher-risk building is to a resident of a
residential unit in such a building.

71.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

71.4.a

amend the definition of a higher-risk building being “occupied”;

71.4.b

amend the definition of a “resident” of a higher-risk building;

71.4.c

define, for the purposes of  this Part , the meaning of being a “resident” of
a residential unit.

71.5

See—

71.5.a

section 65 for the meaning of “higher-risk building”;

71.5.b

section 115 for the meaning of “residential unit”.

##### Meaning of “accountable person”

72

72.1

In  this Part  an “accountable person” for a higher-risk building is—

72.1.a

a person who holds a legal estate in possession in any part of the common
parts (subject to  subsection (2) ), or

72.1.b

a person who does not hold a legal estate in any part of the building but who
is under a relevant repairing obligation in relation to any part of the common
parts.

This subsection  is subject to  subsection (5)  (special rule for commonhold
land).

72.2

A person (“the estate owner”) who holds a legal estate in possession in the
common parts of a higher-risk building or any part of them (“the relevant
common parts”) is not an accountable person for the building by virtue of
subsection (1) (a)  if—

72.2.a

each long lease of which the estate owner is lessor provides that a particular
person, who does not hold a legal estate in any part of the building, is under
a relevant repairing obligation in relation to all of the relevant common
parts, or

72.2.b

all repairing obligations relating to the relevant common parts which would
otherwise be obligations of the estate owner are functions of an RTM company.

72.3

Subsection (4)  applies where—

72.3.a

under a lease, a person (“the estate owner”) holds a legal estate in
possession in the common parts of a higher-risk building or any part of them
(“the relevant common parts”), and

72.3.b

a landlord under the lease is under a relevant repairing obligation in
relation to any of the relevant common parts.

72.4

For the purposes of this section and section 73—

72.4.a

the legal estate in possession in so much of the relevant common parts as are
within  subsection (3) (b)  is treated as held by the landlord (instead of the
estate owner), and

72.4.b

if (and so far as) the landlord’s actual legal estate in those common parts is
held under a lease, the legal estate in possession mentioned in  paragraph (a)
is treated as held under that lease (and, accordingly,  subsection (3)  and
this subsection  may apply in relation to it).

72.5

Where a higher-risk building is on commonhold land, the commonhold association
is the accountable person for the building for the purposes of  this Part .

72.6

For the purposes of this section—

                                    “ common parts ”, in relation to a
building, means—
the structure and exterior of the building, except so far as included in a
demise of a single dwelling or of premises to be occupied for the purposes of
a business, or
any part of the building provided for the use, benefit and enjoyment of the
residents of more than one residential unit (whether alone or with other
persons);
“ commonhold association ” and “commonhold land” have the same meaning as in
Part 1 of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 (see sections 34 and 1
respectively);
“ long lease ”: for the meaning of “long lease” see section 115;
“ possession ”: a reference to “ possession ” does not include the receipt of
rents and profits or the right to receive the same;
“ relevant repairing obligation ”: a person is under a relevant repairing
obligation in relation to anything if the person is required, under a lease or
by virtue of an enactment, to repair or maintain that thing;
“ RTM company ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the
Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 (right to manage).

72.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section (other than  this
subsection ).

##### Meaning of “principal accountable person”

73

73.1

In  this Part  the “principal accountable person” for a higher-risk building
is—

73.1.a

in relation to a building with one accountable person, that person;

73.1.b

in relation to a building with more than one accountable person, the
accountable person who—

73.1.b.i

holds a legal estate in possession in the relevant parts of the structure and
exterior of the building, or

73.1.b.ii

is within section 72 (1) (b)  because of a relevant repairing obligation
(within the meaning of that section) in relation to the relevant parts of the
structure and exterior of the building.

73.2

For the purposes of this section—

73.2.a

the reference to “the relevant parts of the structure and exterior” of a
building is to its structure and exterior except so far as included in a
demise of a single dwelling or of premises to be occupied for the purposes of
a business;

73.2.b

the reference to “ possession ” does not include the receipt of rents and
profits or the right to receive the same.

73.3

Subsection (1) (b)  is subject to section 75 (2)  (powers of tribunal where
more than one accountable person is within  subsection (1) (b) ).

##### Part of building for which an accountable person is responsible

74

In  this Part , any reference to the part of a higher-risk building for which
an accountable person is responsible is to such part of the building
(including all of it) as is determined by or in accordance with regulations.

##### Determinations by the tribunal

75

75.1

An interested person may apply to the tribunal for a determination, as regards
a higher-risk building, of any of the following—

75.1.a

the person or persons who are accountable persons for the building;

75.1.b

the person who is the principal accountable person for the building;

75.1.c

the part of the building for which any accountable person for the building is
responsible.

75.2

Where, on an application under  subsection (1) (b) , it appears to the
tribunal that there is more than one accountable person within section 73 (1)
(b) , the principal accountable person is such one of those accountable
persons as the tribunal considers appropriate.

75.3

In this section “ interested person ” means—

75.3.a

the regulator,

75.3.b

a person who holds a legal estate in any part of the common parts (or who
claims to hold such an estate), or

75.3.c

a person who is under a relevant repairing obligation in relation to any part
of the common parts (or who claims to be under such an obligation).

75.4

In  subsection (3)  “ relevant repairing obligation ” and “ common parts ”
have the same meaning as in section 72.

#### Registration and certificates

##### Requirement for completion certificate before occupation

76

76.1

This section applies if any of the following works are carried out—

76.1.a

the construction of a higher-risk building;

76.1.b

the creation of additional residential units in such a building;

76.1.c

works to a building that cause it to become a higher-risk building.

76.2

If a relevant residential unit is occupied before a completion certificate
relating to a relevant part of the building is issued, the relevant
accountable person commits an offence.

76.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that the person had a reasonable excuse for the residential unit being
occupied before such a completion certificate was issued.

76.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

76.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

76.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

76.5

In this section—

                                    “ completion certificate ” means a
certificate of a prescribed description that is issued under regulations made
under section 1(1) of the Building Act 1984 (building regulations);
“ occupied ”: a residential unit is occupied if there is a resident of it;
“ relevant accountable person ”, in relation to a residential unit, means the
accountable person who is responsible for a relevant part of the building;
“ relevant part ” of a building, in relation to a residential unit, means a
part of the building containing the residential unit;
“ relevant residential unit ” means—
in the case of works within  subsection (1) (a) , any residential unit in the
building;
in the case of works within  subsection (1) (b) , any additional residential
unit;
in the case of works within  subsection (1) (c) , any residential unit in the
building except one that existed before the works began.

##### Occupation: registration requirement

77

77.1

The principal accountable person for a higher-risk building commits an offence
if the building is occupied but not registered.

77.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this section to
prove that the person had a reasonable excuse for the building being occupied
but not registered.

77.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

77.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

77.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

77.4

In this section “ registered ” means registered under section 78.

##### Registration of higher-risk buildings

78

78.1

On an application by the principal accountable person for a higher-risk
building the regulator may register the building.

78.2

The regulator must publish the register in such way as it considers
appropriate.

78.3

The regulator may remove a building from the register if it appears to the
regulator that—

78.3.a

the building is not occupied, or

78.3.b

the building is not a higher-risk building.

78.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the register,
including in particular provision about—

78.4.a

the information to be contained in the register;

78.4.b

the updating or other revision of information in the register;

78.4.c

the procedure for removing buildings from the register.

78.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to
applications under this section, including in particular provision about—

78.5.a

the form and content of an application;

78.5.b

the information and documents that must accompany an application;

78.5.c

the way in which an application, and anything that is to accompany it, is to
be given;

78.5.d

the circumstances in which an application may be withdrawn or treated as
withdrawn;

78.5.e

the way in which an application may be withdrawn.

##### Occupied building: duty to apply for building assessment certificate

79

79.1

This section applies where the regulator directs the principal accountable
person for an occupied higher-risk building to apply to the regulator for a
building assessment certificate in relation to the building.

79.2

The principal accountable person for the building must make the application
within the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the direction is
given.

79.3

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes  subsection (2)  commits
an offence.

79.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

79.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

79.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

79.5

In this section “ building assessment certificate ” means a certificate issued
under section 81.

##### Applications for building assessment certificates

80

80.1

An application under section 79 must be accompanied by—

80.1.a

a copy of the most recent safety case report for the building unless a copy of
that report has been provided under section 86 (2) ;

80.1.b

prescribed information about the mandatory occurrence reporting system
operated by the principal accountable person;

80.1.c

prescribed information demonstrating compliance by each accountable person for
the building with their duties under section 89;

80.1.d

a copy of any residents’ engagement strategy.

80.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about
applications under section 79, including in particular provision about—

80.2.a

the form and content of an application;

80.2.b

the way in which an application, and anything which is to accompany it, is to
be given;

80.2.c

the circumstances in which an application may be withdrawn or treated as
withdrawn;

80.2.d

the way in which an application may be withdrawn.

80.3

In this section—

                                    “ mandatory occurrence reporting system ”
has the same meaning as in section 87;
“ residents’ engagement strategy ” has the same meaning as in section 91;
“ safety case report ”  has the same meaning as in section 85.

##### Building assessment certificates

81

81.1

This section applies where—

81.1.a

the principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building applies
under section 79 for a certificate in relation to the building (a “building
assessment certificate”),

81.1.b

the application is made pursuant to a direction of the regulator under that
section, and

81.1.c

the building is registered under section 78.

81.2

The regulator must assess whether the relevant duties are being complied with
(and may inspect the building in connection with that assessment).

81.3

The regulator—

81.3.a

must give a building assessment certificate if satisfied that all relevant
duties are being complied with;

81.3.b

if not so satisfied, must (subject to  subsection (4) ) refuse the application
and notify the principal accountable person of the refusal.

81.4

If the regulator considers that a contravention of a relevant duty can be
remedied promptly—

81.4.a

the regulator may give a notice under  this subsection  to the principal
accountable person containing a brief description of the contravention and
specifying a period for remedying the contravention, and

81.4.b

if it does so, and the contravention is remedied within that period, it may
give a building assessment certificate (instead of refusing the application).

81.5

In this section “ relevant duty ” means a duty of an accountable person for
the building under, or under prescribed regulations made under, any of the
following—

81.5.a

section 83 (duty to assess building safety risks);

81.5.b

section 84 (management of building safety risks);

81.5.c

section 85 (duties relating to safety case report);

81.5.d

section 87 (5)  (duties relating to mandatory occurrence reporting system);

81.5.e

section 89 (provision of information to regulator, residents etc);

81.5.f

section 91 (duty to produce a residents’ engagement strategy).

81.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about
building assessment certificates and notices under this section, including in
particular provision about—

81.6.a

the period in relation to which a certificate may be given;

81.6.b

the form and content of a certificate or notice;

81.6.c

the way in which a certificate or notice is to be given.

##### Duty to display building assessment certificate etc

82

82.1

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must
ensure that the following are displayed together, in a conspicuous position in
the building—

82.1.a

a notice in the prescribed form containing prescribed information about
accountable persons for the building;

82.1.b

the most recent building assessment certificate relating to the building;

82.1.c

any relevant compliance notice (see  subsection (5) ).

82.2

Where a special measures order is in force in relation to an occupied higher-
risk building—

82.2.a

subsection (1)  has effect as if  paragraph (b)  were omitted, and

82.2.b

the principal accountable person for the building must ensure that no building
assessment certificate relating to the building is displayed in the building.

82.3

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes  subsection (1)  or  (2)
(b)  commits an offence.

82.4

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

82.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

82.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

82.5

In this section—

                                    “ building assessment certificate ” has
the same meaning as in section 81;
“ relevant compliance notice ”: a compliance notice is “relevant” if—
it has been given to an accountable person for the building,
if it was not given to the principal accountable person for the building, the
regulator has given a copy of it to the principal accountable person, and
the regulator has not notified the principal accountable person that the
notice has been withdrawn.

#### Duties relating to building safety risks

##### Assessment of building safety risks

83

83.1

An accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must as soon as
reasonably practicable after the relevant time assess the building safety
risks as regards the part of the building for which they are responsible.

83.2

Further such assessments must be made—

83.2.a

at regular intervals,

83.2.b

at any time that the accountable person has reason to suspect that the current
assessment is no longer valid, and

83.2.c

at the direction of the regulator, within a period specified in the direction.

83.3

An assessment under  subsection (1)  or  (2)  must be suitable and sufficient
for the purposes of enabling the accountable person to comply with their
duties under section 84.

83.4

In this section “ the relevant time ” means—

83.4.a

the time when the building becomes occupied, or

83.4.b

if later, the time when the person becomes an accountable person for the
building.

##### Management of building safety risks

84

84.1

An accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must take all
reasonable steps for the following purposes—

84.1.a

preventing a building safety risk materialising as regards the part of the
building for which they are responsible;

84.1.b

reducing the severity of any incident resulting from such a risk
materialising.

84.2

Those steps may in particular involve the accountable person carrying out
works to the part of the building for which they are responsible.

84.3

When taking the steps the accountable person must act in accordance with
prescribed principles.

84.4

The steps must be taken promptly.

84.5

The accountable person must make and give effect to arrangements for the
purpose of ensuring the effective planning, organisation, control, monitoring
and review of steps taken under this section.

##### Safety case report

85

85.1

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must as
soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant time prepare a report (a
“safety case report”) containing—

85.1.a

any assessment of the building safety risks made under section 83 by an
accountable person for the building, and

85.1.b

a brief description of any steps taken under section 84 by an accountable
person for the building.

85.2

The principal accountable person must revise a safety case report if they
consider it necessary or appropriate to do so following—

85.2.a

any further assessment under section 83 made by an accountable person for the
building, or

85.2.b

the taking of further steps under section 84 by an accountable person for the
building.

85.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about the
content and form of safety case reports.

85.4

In this section “ the relevant time ” means—

85.4.a

the time when the building becomes occupied, or

85.4.b

if later, the time when the person becomes the principal accountable person
for the building.

##### Notification and provision of report to the regulator

86

86.1

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must
notify the regulator as soon as reasonably practicable after preparing or
revising a safety case report.

86.2

Where the regulator asks the principal accountable person to provide it with a
copy of the safety case report, the principal accountable person must give a
copy of it to the regulator as soon as reasonably practicable.

86.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about—

86.3.a

the content and form of notifications under this section;

86.3.b

the way in which a notification or copy of a report must be given.

86.4

In this section “ safety case report ” has the same meaning as in section 85.

#### Duties relating to information and documents

##### Mandatory reporting requirements

87

87.1

An accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must, in prescribed
circumstances, give prescribed information to the regulator by the prescribed
time and in the specified way.

87.2

The information that may be prescribed is information that relates to a
building safety risk as regards the part of the building for which an
accountable person is responsible.

87.3

In  subsection (1)  “ specified ” means specified in a direction given and
published by the regulator.

87.4

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes  subsection (1)  commits
an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine.

87.5

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must
establish and operate an effective mandatory occurrence reporting system which
complies with prescribed requirements.

87.6

A “mandatory occurrence reporting system” is a system for the giving of
information to accountable persons for the building for the purpose of
enabling them to comply with  subsection (1) .

87.7

Information provided by a person under  subsection (1)  is not admissible in
evidence against that person in criminal proceedings except—

87.7.a

in proceedings for an offence under section 24 or this section,

87.7.b

in proceedings for an offence of perverting the course of justice, or

87.7.c

if in the proceedings—

87.7.c.i

in giving evidence the person makes a statement inconsistent with the
information, and

87.7.c.ii

evidence as to the information that was provided is adduced, or a question
relating to it is asked, by or on behalf of the person.

##### Keeping information about higher-risk buildings

88

88.1

An accountable person for a higher-risk building must—

88.1.a

keep prescribed information in accordance with prescribed standards, and

88.1.b

so far as possible keep such information up to date.

88.2

An accountable person for a higher-risk building must keep copies of
prescribed documents in accordance with prescribed standards.

88.3

Where an accountable person does not hold prescribed information or a copy of
a prescribed document, they must obtain it except where it is not practicable
to do so.

88.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision as to when the duties
in  subsections (1)  to  (3)  apply.

##### Provision of information etc to the regulator, residents and other persons

89

89.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring an
accountable person for a higher-risk building to give prescribed information
or a copy of a prescribed document to—

89.1.a

the regulator,

89.1.b

another accountable person for the building,

89.1.c

residents of the building,

89.1.d

owners of residential units in the building, or

89.1.e

any other prescribed person.

89.2

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

89.2.a

when information or a copy of a document must be given;

89.2.b

the way in which information or copy of a document must be given;

89.2.c

the form in which information must be given (and may in particular require
that the information is given in an accessible form);

89.2.d

the standards in accordance with which information or a copy of a document
must be given.

89.3

The regulations may make exceptions to any duty imposed under the regulations.

89.4

Subject to  subsection (5) , the regulations may provide that the disclosure
of information under this section does not breach—

89.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the accountable person in relation to
that information;

89.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

89.5

This section does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by this
section).

89.6

Where the regulations provide that any information or document must be given
to the regulator, they may make provision about the admissibility in any
criminal proceedings of the information or document.

##### Provision of information etc on change in accountable person

90

90.1

This section applies where at any time (“ the relevant time ”) an accountable
person for a higher-risk building (the “outgoing person”) ceases to be
responsible for all or any part of the building.

90.2

The outgoing person must give prescribed information and a copy of any
prescribed document to any person who, immediately after the relevant time—

90.2.a

is an accountable person for the building, and

90.2.b

is responsible for a part of the building for which the outgoing person ceased
to be responsible at the relevant time.

90.3

The information and documents must be given—

90.3.a

by the prescribed time,

90.3.b

in the prescribed way, and

90.3.c

in accordance with prescribed standards.

90.4

The outgoing person must give prescribed information to the regulator in the
prescribed way, as soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant time.

90.5

Subject to  subsection (6) , regulations made by the Secretary of State under
this section may provide that the disclosure of information under this section
does not breach—

90.5.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the outgoing person in relation to that
information;

90.5.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

90.6

This section does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by this
section).

90.7

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes  subsection (2)  or  (4)
commits an offence and is liable—

90.7.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

90.7.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

#### Engagement with residents etc

##### Residents’ engagement strategy

91

91.1

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must—

91.1.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant time prepare a strategy
(a “residents’ engagement strategy”) for promoting the participation of
relevant persons in the making of building safety decisions;

91.1.b

review the strategy at prescribed times, and revise it if they consider it
necessary or appropriate to do so;

91.1.c

in prescribed circumstances, consult relevant persons and prescribed persons
on the strategy and take any representations made on the consultation into
account when next reviewing the strategy;

91.1.d

act in accordance with the strategy.

91.2

“ Building safety decision ” means a decision by an accountable person for the
building that—

91.2.a

is about the management of the building, and

91.2.b

is made in connection with the performance of a duty of the accountable person
under, or under regulations made under,  this Part .

91.3

The strategy must include information about—

91.3.a

the information that will be provided to relevant persons about decisions
relating to the management of the building,

91.3.b

the aspects of those decisions that relevant persons will be consulted about,

91.3.c

the arrangements for obtaining and taking account of the views of relevant
persons, and

91.3.d

how the appropriateness of methods for promoting participation will be
measured and kept under review.

91.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after the strategy is prepared or revised,
each accountable person for the building must give a copy of the strategy to—

91.4.a

each resident of the building who—

91.4.a.i

is aged 16 or over, and

91.4.a.ii

resides in a residential unit in the part of the building for which the
accountable person is responsible;

91.4.b

each owner of a residential unit in that part of the building;

91.4.c

any prescribed person.

91.5

The duty under  subsection (4) (a)  does not apply in relation to a resident
if the accountable person—

91.5.a

is not aware of the resident, and

91.5.b

has taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of persons who reside
in residential units in the part of the building for which the accountable
person is responsible.

91.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

91.6.a

make further provision about the content of a residents’ engagement strategy;

91.6.b

make provision about the preparation, review or revision of a residents’
engagement strategy, in cases where there is more than one accountable person
for the building;

91.6.c

make provision about the way in which a copy of the strategy is to be given;

91.6.d

make provision about consultations under this section.

91.7

In this section—

                                    “ relevant persons ” are—
residents of the higher-risk building who are aged 16 or over, and
owners of residential units in the building;
“ the relevant time ” has the meaning given by section 85.

##### Requests for further information

92

92.1

This section applies where—

92.1.a

a resident of an occupied higher-risk building who is aged 16 or over, or

92.1.b

an owner of a residential unit in the building,

makes a request to an accountable person for the building to give them
prescribed information or a copy of a prescribed document.

92.2

The accountable person must as soon as reasonably practicable give the
resident or owner the information or document requested.

92.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about— 

92.3.a

the way in which information or a copy of a document must be given under this
section;

92.3.b

the form in which information must be given under this section (and may in
particular require that the information is given in an accessible form).

92.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that in prescribed
circumstances an accountable person is not required by  subsection (2)  to
provide a copy of a document or some or all of the information requested.

92.5

Subject to  subsection (6) , the regulations may provide that the disclosure
of information under this section does not breach—

92.5.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

92.5.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

92.6

This section does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by this
section).

##### Complaints procedure operated by principal accountable person

93

93.1

The principal accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building must as
soon as reasonably practicable after the relevant time establish and operate a
system for the investigation of relevant complaints.

93.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
establishment and operation of complaints systems under this section.

93.3

The regulations may in particular make provision—

93.3.a

about the way in which complaints may be made;

93.3.b

about the period within which a complaint must be considered and dealt with;

93.3.c

requiring the principal accountable person to refer a complaint to the
regulator.

93.4

In this section—

                                    “ relevant complaint ” means a complaint
relating to—
a building safety risk as regards the building, or
the performance by an accountable person for the building of any duty under,
or under regulations made under,  this Part ;
“ the relevant time ” has the meaning given by section 85.

##### Complaints procedure operated by the regulator

94

94.1

The regulator must establish and operate a system for the investigation of
relevant complaints that are made, or referred under section 93, to the
regulator.

94.2

The regulator must consult the committee mentioned in section 11 (residents’
panel)—

94.2.a

before the complaints system is established or, if the committee has not been
established at the time the complaints system is established, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the committee is established, and

94.2.b

before making any significant change to the complaints system.

94.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
establishment and operation of the complaints system under this section.

94.4

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

94.4.a

the period within which a complaint must be considered and dealt with;

94.4.b

action that the regulator must consider taking in response to a complaint.

94.5

In this section “ relevant complaint ” means a complaint relating to—

94.5.a

a building safety risk as regards an occupied higher-risk building,

94.5.b

the performance by an accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building
of any duty under, or under regulations made under,  this Part , or

94.5.c

the performance by a special measures manager of any function conferred on the
manager by a special measures order.

#### Residents' etc duties

##### Duties on residents and owners

95

95.1

This section applies to—

95.1.a

a resident of a residential unit in an occupied higher-risk building who is
aged 16 or over;

95.1.b

an owner of a residential unit in such a building.

95.2

A person to whom this section applies—

95.2.a

must not act in a way that creates a significant risk of a building safety
risk materialising;

95.2.b

must not interfere with a relevant safety item;

95.2.c

must comply with a request, made by the appropriate accountable person, for
information reasonably required for the purposes of a duty under section 83 or
84.

95.3

For the purposes of  subsection (2) (b)  a person “interferes” with a relevant
safety item if they, without reasonable excuse—

95.3.a

damage it,

95.3.b

remove it, or

95.3.c

do anything to, or in relation to, it that interferes with its intended
function.

95.4

In this section—

                                    “ appropriate accountable person ” means
the accountable person for the building who is responsible for the part of the
building comprising the residential unit;
“ relevant safety item ” means—
anything that—
is in, or forms part of, the common parts (as defined by section 72), and
is intended to improve the safety of people in or about the building in
relation to a building safety risk, or
any other prescribed thing.

##### Contravention notices

96

96.1

This section applies where it appears to the appropriate accountable person
that a relevant person has contravened or is contravening a duty under section
95 (2) .

96.2

The appropriate accountable person may give a contravention notice to the
relevant person.

96.3

A “contravention notice” is a notice that—

96.3.a

specifies the alleged contravention;

96.3.b

specifies any steps that the appropriate accountable person considers the
relevant person should take in order to remedy the contravention, and a
reasonable time for the taking of those steps;

96.3.c

specifies anything that the appropriate accountable person considers the
relevant person should refrain from doing, to avoid further contraventions of
the duty;

96.3.d

contains an explanation of the steps that the appropriate accountable person
may take under this section if the notice is not complied with.

96.4

Where it appears to the appropriate accountable person that the relevant
person has contravened or is contravening the duty under section 95 (2) (b) ,
the contravention notice may require the relevant person to pay to the
appropriate accountable person a sum specified in the notice.

96.5

A sum may be specified in a contravention notice under  subsection (4)  only
if—

96.5.a

it is necessary to repair or replace the relevant safety item as a result of
the contravention, and

96.5.b

the sum specified does not exceed the reasonable cost of repairing or
replacing (as the case may be) that item.

96.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about contravention
notices, including—

96.6.a

provision about the form of a notice and the way a notice is to be given, and

96.6.b

further provision about the content of a notice.

96.7

The county court may, on an application made by the appropriate accountable
person, make an order under this section if satisfied that—

96.7.a

a contravention notice has been given,

96.7.b

the contravention alleged in the notice occurred, and

96.7.c

it is necessary to make the order.

96.8

An order under this section may—

96.8.a

require a relevant person to provide specified information or do a specified
thing, by a specified time;

96.8.b

prohibit a relevant person from doing a specified thing;

96.8.c

where a contravention notice requires a sum to be paid under  subsection (4) ,
require a relevant person to pay to the appropriate accountable person a
specified sum.

“Specified” here means specified in the order.

96.9

A sum specified in an order under  subsection (8) (c)  may not exceed the sum
specified in the contravention notice.

96.10

In this section—

                                    “ appropriate accountable person ” has the
same meaning as in section 95;
“ relevant person ” means a person who is subject to the duties under section
95 (see  subsection (1)  of that section).

##### Access to premises

97

97.1

This section applies where —

97.1.a

an accountable person for an occupied higher-risk building makes a request to
a relevant person to enter relevant premises,

97.1.b

the request is made for the purpose of—

97.1.b.i

facilitating the performance of a duty under section 83 or 84 (assessment of
building safety risk etc), or

97.1.b.ii

determining whether a duty under section 95 (duties on residents and owners)
has been contravened,

97.1.c

the request is within  subsection (2) , and

97.1.d

entry to the premises is not given.

97.2

A request is within  this subsection  if it—

97.2.a

is in writing,

97.2.b

sets out the purpose for which it is made,

97.2.c

contains an explanation of why it is necessary to enter the premises for that
purpose,

97.2.d

requests access to the premises at a reasonable time, and

97.2.e

is made at least 48 hours before the time mentioned in  paragraph (d) .

97.3

The accountable person may apply to the county court for an order—

97.3.a

requiring the relevant person to allow the accountable person, or a person
authorised by the accountable person, to enter the relevant premises at a
reasonable time for the purpose mentioned in the request, and

97.3.b

if necessary for that purpose, authorising the taking of measurements,
photographs, recordings or samples by the accountable person or authorised
person.

97.4

The county court—

97.4.a

may make an order under  subsection (3) (a)  or  (b)  if satisfied that it is
necessary to do so for the purpose mentioned in the request;

97.4.b

must, if it does so, specify a date on which, or in a period within which, the
accountable person or authorised person may enter the relevant premises for
that purpose.

97.5

In this section—

                                    “ relevant person ” in relation to
relevant premises means—
a resident of those premises who is aged 16 or over;
where those premises are controlled but not occupied, a person controlling
those premises;
in any other case, an owner of those premises;
“ relevant premises ” means any premises in the part of the building for which
the accountable person is responsible that are occupied or controlled by—
a resident of a residential unit in the building, or
an owner of a residential unit in the building.

#### Enforcement

##### Duty on regulator to enforce Part

98

The regulator must enforce the provisions of  this Part  and regulations made
under it.

##### Compliance notices

99

99.1

The regulator may give a compliance notice to an accountable person for a
higher-risk building who appears to the regulator to have contravened, be
contravening or be likely to contravene a relevant requirement.

99.2

A “compliance notice” is—

99.2.a

a notice requiring the accountable person to take specified steps within a
specified period, or

99.2.b

a notice requiring the accountable person to remedy the contravention or the
matters giving rise to it within a specified period.

99.3

A notice of a kind mentioned in  subsection (2) (a)  may specify any steps
relating to—

99.3.a

the remedying of the contravention, or

99.3.b

avoiding the contravention occurring.

99.4

Where it appears to the regulator that the contravention has placed or will
place people in or about the building in imminent danger, the regulator may
specify that the compliance notice is a notice to which  this subsection
applies (an “urgent action notice”).

99.5

A person who, without reasonable excuse, contravenes a compliance notice
commits an offence.

99.6

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

99.6.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

99.6.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

99.7

In this section—

                                    “ relevant requirement ” means any
requirement on an accountable person under, or under regulations made under,
this Part  except one that is prescribed for the purposes of this section;
“ specified ” means specified in the notice.

##### Compliance notices: supplementary

100

100.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about
compliance notices.

100.2

The regulations may in particular make provision about—

100.2.a

the form and content of notices;

100.2.b

the giving of notices;

100.2.c

the amendment or withdrawal of notices;

100.2.d

the extension of any period specified in a compliance notice for the doing of
a thing.

100.3

Subsection (4)  applies where the regulator has given a compliance notice to
an accountable person for a higher-risk building. 

100.4

The regulator must take reasonable steps to notify—

100.4.a

the local authority for the area in which the building is situated;

100.4.b

the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building is situated;

100.4.c

where the accountable person for the building is a registered provider of
social housing, the Regulator of Social Housing;

100.4.d

any other prescribed person.

##### Offence: contravention giving rise to risk of death and serious injury

101

101.1

An accountable person for a higher-risk building commits an offence if—

101.1.a

without reasonable excuse, the accountable person contravenes a relevant
requirement, and

101.1.b

the contravention places one or more people in or about the building at
critical risk.

101.2

In  subsection (1) —

                                    “ critical risk ” means a significant risk
of death or serious injury arising from a building safety risk;
“ relevant requirement ” means any requirement on an accountable person under,
or under regulations made under,  this Part  except one that is prescribed for
the purposes of this section.

101.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

101.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

101.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both);

and (in either case) is liable on summary conviction to a further fine not
exceeding level 1 on the standard scale for each day on which the default
continues after the initial conviction.

#### Special measures

##### Special measures

102

Schedule 7  provides for the appointment of a special measures manager, to
undertake duties under  this Part  in place of an accountable person, and
makes further provision in connection with that appointment.

#### Appeals etc

##### Appeals against compliance notice etc

103

103.1

A person to whom a compliance notice has been given may appeal to the
tribunal.

103.2

An appeal may be on the grounds—

103.2.a

that the person has not contravened, is not contravening, or is not likely to
contravene, a relevant requirement;

103.2.b

that it is unreasonable to require the person to do any thing specified to be
done in the notice.

103.3

Where an appeal under  subsection (1)  is made and the compliance notice is
not an urgent action notice—

103.3.a

the compliance notice is of no effect pending the final determination or
withdrawal of the appeal, and

103.3.b

the specified period mentioned in section 99 (2) (a)  is treated as extended
by the period—

103.3.b.i

beginning with the day on which the appeal is made, and

103.3.b.ii

ending with the day on which the appeal is finally determined or withdrawn.

103.4

Where an appeal under  subsection (1)  is made and the compliance notice is an
urgent action notice—

103.4.a

the appellant may apply to the tribunal for a direction that the compliance
notice is of no effect pending the final determination or withdrawal of the
appeal, and

103.4.b

unless and until any such direction is given, the compliance notice continues
to have effect despite the making of the appeal.

103.5

A person to whom a compliance notice has been given may apply to the tribunal
for an extension of the period for the doing of any thing specified to be done
in the notice.

103.6

Subsections (3)  and  (4)  apply to such an application as they apply to an
appeal under  subsection (1) .

103.7

In this section “ urgent action notice ” has the meaning given by section 99
(4) .

##### Appeals against decisions of the regulator made under 

104

104.1

This section applies in relation to a decision of the regulator—

104.1.a

not to register a building on an application under section 78 (1) ;

104.1.b

to remove a building from the register under section 78 (3) ;

104.1.c

to refuse an application for a building assessment certificate under section
81 (3) ;

104.1.d

to give a direction under section 83 (2) .

104.2

An affected person may appeal the decision.

104.3

An appeal may be on the grounds—

104.3.a

that the decision was based on an error of fact;

104.3.b

that the decision was wrong in law;

104.3.c

that the decision was unreasonable.

104.4

In this section “ an affected person ” means—

104.4.a

in relation to a decision of the regulator mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or
(b)  of  subsection (1) , an accountable person for the higher-risk building
(or a person who would be an accountable person for the building if the
building were a higher-risk building);

104.4.b

in relation to a decision of the regulator mentioned in  paragraph (c)  of
subsection (1) , an accountable person for the higher-risk building;

104.4.c

in relation to a decision of the regulator mentioned in  paragraph (d)  of
subsection (1) , the accountable person subject to the direction.

##### Appeals against decisions of the regulator made under regulations

105

105.1

This section applies in relation to a prescribed decision of the regulator
made under regulations made under  this Part .

105.2

A prescribed person may appeal to the tribunal against the decision.

105.3

An appeal may be made only on prescribed grounds.

##### Appeals: supplementary

106

106.1

This section applies in relation to an appeal to the tribunal under section
103 (1) , 104 or 105.

106.2

The tribunal—

106.2.a

must consider afresh the decision appealed against, and

106.2.b

may take into account evidence that was not available to the regulator.

106.3

The tribunal may confirm, vary or quash the decision of the regulator.

106.4

The Secretary of State may, by regulations—

106.4.a

provide for the suspension during the appeal period of the effect of a notice
(other than a compliance notice) given or other thing done by the regulator;

106.4.b

make other provision about the effect during the appeal period of an appeal
(including provision conferring powers on the tribunal).

106.5

In  subsection (4)  “ the appeal period ” means the period beginning with the
making of the appeal and ending with the final determination or withdrawal of
the appeal.

##### Enforcement of decisions of the First-tier and Upper Tribunal

107

107.1

A decision of the First-tier Tribunal or Upper Tribunal made under or in
connection with  this Part  is enforceable with the permission of the county
court in the same way as an order of that court.

107.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply to a decision of the First-tier Tribunal or
Upper Tribunal ordering the payment of a sum (as to which see section 28 of
the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (enforcement)).

#### Miscellaneous and general

##### Guidance

108

108.1

The regulator may issue guidance about any of the following matters—

108.1.a

the performance of any duties under section 87 (mandatory reporting
requirements);

108.1.b

the performance of any duties under section 88 or 89 (duty to keep or give
information);

108.1.c

the performance of any duties under section 92 (duty to give further
information to residents);

108.1.d

the performance of any duties under section 93 (complaints procedure).

108.2

The regulator may revise or withdraw any issued guidance.

108.3

Where in any proceedings it is alleged that a person has contravened a
provision mentioned in  subsection (1) —

108.3.a

proof of a failure to comply with any applicable guidance may be relied on as
tending to establish that there was such a contravention, and

108.3.b

proof of compliance with any applicable guidance may be relied on as tending
to establish that there was no such contravention.

108.4

In any proceedings, a document purporting to be guidance under this section is
to be taken to be such guidance unless the contrary is proved.

108.5

Guidance under this section may be issued, revised or withdrawn only with the
consent of the Secretary of State.

108.6

In this section any reference to a provision includes regulations made under
the provision.

##### Cooperation and coordination

109

109.1

Subsection (2)  applies if there is more than one accountable person for an
occupied higher-risk building.

109.2

When carrying out their duties under, or under regulations made under,  this
Part , each accountable person must so far as possible—

109.2.a

cooperate with every other accountable person for the building, and

109.2.b

coordinate with every other accountable person for the building.

109.3

Subsection (4)  applies to an accountable person for an occupied higher-risk
building if there are one or more other persons who are responsible persons
within the meaning of article 3 of the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order
2005 in relation to the building.

109.4

The accountable person must cooperate with each responsible person for the
purpose of each responsible person carrying out their duties under the Order.

##### Managers appointed under Part 2 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987

110

110.1

Section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 (appointment of a manager by a
tribunal) is amended as follows.

110.2

After subsection (2ZA) insert—

110.2.2ZB

Subsection (2)(a) does not apply in respect of a breach of a building safety
obligation by an accountable person for a higher-risk building.

110.2.2ZC

In this section—

                                                               “ accountable
person ” has the meaning given in section 72 of the Building Safety Act 2022;
“ building safety obligation ” means an obligation of an accountable person
under  Part 4  of the Building Safety Act 2022 or regulations made under that
Part;
“ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given in section 65 of the Building
Safety Act 2022.

110.3

After subsection (2D) (inserted by paragraph  8 (3)  of Schedule  7 ) insert—

110.3.2E

An order under this section may not provide for a manager to carry out a
function in relation to a higher-risk building where  Part 4  of the Building
Safety Act 2022 or regulations made under that Part provide for that function
to be carried out by an accountable person for that building.

##### Building safety directors of resident management companies

111

111.1

This section applies in relation to a resident management company that is an
accountable person for a higher-risk building.

111.2

The articles of association of the resident management company have effect as
if they included such provision as may be prescribed relating to—

111.2.a

eligibility for appointment as a director of the company, for a building
safety purpose;

111.2.b

the appointment of a director for such a purpose;

111.2.c

the entitlement to remuneration of a director appointed for such a purpose;

111.2.d

the removal of a director so appointed.

111.3

Subsection (2) has effect—

111.3.a

whether or not the provision is adopted by the company;

111.3.b

whether the company was formed before or after the coming into force of this
section;

111.3.c

notwithstanding anything in the company’s articles of association.

111.4

In this section—

                                    “ building safety purpose ” means the
purpose of supporting the resident management company in complying with its
duties under this Part or under regulations made under this Part;
“ resident management company ” has the meaning given by regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

#### Landlord and tenant etc

##### Implied terms in leases and recovery of safety related costs

112

112.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (6) .

112.2

After section 30B insert—

########### Higher-risk buildings in England

############ Implied terms relating to building safety

112.2.30C

112.2.30C.1

This section applies to a lease of premises which consist of or include a
dwelling in a higher-risk building.

112.2.30C.2

In the lease there is implied a covenant by the landlord—

112.2.30C.2.a

where the landlord is an accountable person for the higher-risk building, to
comply with their building safety duties;

112.2.30C.2.b

to cooperate with any person in connection with a relevant person complying
with their building safety duties;

112.2.30C.2.c

where a special measures order in relation to the higher-risk building is in
force, to comply with that order so far as it relates to the landlord.

112.2.30C.3

In the lease there is implied a covenant by the tenant—

112.2.30C.3.a

to allow the landlord, a relevant person or a person authorised in writing by
the landlord or a relevant person to enter the premises for a relevant
building safety purpose;

112.2.30C.3.b

where the tenant is a resident of the higher-risk building, to comply with
their duties under sections 95 and 97 of the Building Safety Act 2022;

112.2.30C.3.c

where a special measures order in relation to the higher-risk building is in
force, to comply with that order so far as it relates to the tenant.

112.2.30C.4

In the covenant implied by subsection  (2) (b) , “ cooperate ”, in relation to
a person, includes—

112.2.30C.4.a

taking any steps which are reasonably required by the person to facilitate
compliance by a relevant person with their building safety duties;

112.2.30C.4.b

where the person is a relevant person (or a person authorised in writing by a
relevant person), providing any information (including names and contact
details of residents and tenants of the premises) to the person which is
reasonably required in connection with the relevant person complying with
their building safety duties.

112.2.30C.5

In the covenant implied by subsection  (3) (a) , a relevant building safety
purpose means—

112.2.30C.5.a

inspecting the premises in connection with a relevant person complying with
their building safety duties;

112.2.30C.5.b

carrying out works to the premises, where such works are required to be
carried out in connection with a relevant person complying with their building
safety duties;

112.2.30C.5.c

accessing a part of the higher-risk building that is not let to the tenant in
order to—

112.2.30C.5.c.i

inspect that part of the building in connection with a relevant person
complying with their building safety duties;

112.2.30C.5.c.ii

carry out works to that part of the building, where such works are required to
be carried out in connection with a relevant person complying with their
building safety duties.

112.2.30C.6

The covenant implied by subsection  (3) (a)  requires entry to the premises to
be allowed—

112.2.30C.6.a

only at reasonable times, and

112.2.30C.6.b

only if the tenant has been given at least 48 hours’ notice in writing.

112.2.30C.7

Except as provided by subsection  (8) , the disclosure of information in
accordance with subsections  (2) (b)  and  (4) (b)  does not breach—

112.2.30C.7.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the landlord in relation to that
information;

112.2.30C.7.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

112.2.30C.8

Subsections  (2) (b)  and  (4) (b)  do not require a disclosure of information
if the disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, take into account the duty
imposed by subsections  (2) (b)  and  (4) (b) ).

112.2.30C.9

In this section—

                     “ building safety duties ”—
in relation to an accountable person, means any duties of the accountable
person under  Part 4  of the Building Safety Act 2022, or regulations made
under that Part of that Act;
in relation to a special measures manager, means any duties of the manager
included in the special measures order appointing the manager;
“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);
“ relevant person ” means—
an accountable person for the higher-risk building;
a special measures manager for the higher-risk building;
“ resident ” and “resident of a higher-risk building” have the same meaning as
in  Part 4  of the Building Safety Act 2022 (see section 71 (3)  and  (4) (c)
of that Act);
“ works ” includes alterations, improvements and installations.

############ Liability for building safety costs

112.2.30D

112.2.30D.1

This section applies to a relevant lease of premises which consist of or
include a dwelling in a higher-risk building.

112.2.30D.2

In this section “relevant lease”—

112.2.30D.2.a

means a lease—

112.2.30D.2.a.i

that is granted for a term certain of 7 years or more, whether or not it is
(or may become) terminable before the end of that term by notice given by the
tenant or by re-entry or forfeiture, and

112.2.30D.2.a.ii

under which the tenant is liable to pay a service charge (within the meaning
of section 18), but

112.2.30D.2.b

does not include a relevant social housing tenancy.

112.2.30D.3

The relevant lease has effect—

112.2.30D.3.a

as if the matters for which the service charge is payable under the lease
included the taking of building safety measures by or on behalf of a relevant
person (insofar as this would not otherwise be the case), and

112.2.30D.3.b

where the lease contains different methods for apportioning different relevant
costs (within the meaning of section 18), as if it provided for any costs for
which the tenant is liable by virtue only of paragraph (a) to be apportioned
in the same way as costs incurred in connection with insuring the building.

112.2.30D.4

“ Building safety measure ” means any of the following—

112.2.30D.4.a

applying for registration of a higher-risk building in accordance with section
78 of the Building Safety Act 2022;

112.2.30D.4.b

applying for a building assessment certificate in accordance with section 79
of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.c

displaying a building assessment certificate in accordance with section 82 of
that Act;

112.2.30D.4.d

assessing building safety risks in accordance with section 83 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.e

taking reasonable steps in accordance with section 84 of that Act (management
of building safety risks), other than steps involving the carrying out of
works as referred to in section 84 (2) ;

112.2.30D.4.f

preparing and revising a safety case report in accordance with section 85 of
that Act;

112.2.30D.4.g

notifying the regulator of a safety case report, and giving a copy of a safety
case report to the regulator, in accordance with section 86 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.h

establishing and operating a mandatory occurrence reporting system, and giving
information to the regulator, in accordance with section 87 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.i

keeping information and documents in accordance with section 88 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.j

giving information and documents to any person in accordance with section 89,
90 or 92 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.k

complying with any duty under section 91 of that Act (residents’ engagement
strategy);

112.2.30D.4.l

establishing and operating a system for the investigation of complaints in
accordance with section 93 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.m

giving a contravention notice to a resident, and making an application to the
county court, in accordance with section 96 of that Act;

112.2.30D.4.n

making a request to enter premises, or making an application to the county
court, in accordance with section 97 of that Act (access to premises).

112.2.30D.5

For the purposes of this section any of the following incurred in connection
with the taking of a building safety measure are to be regarded as incurred in
taking the measure—

112.2.30D.5.a

legal and other professional fees;

112.2.30D.5.b

fees payable to the regulator;

112.2.30D.5.c

management costs.

112.2.30D.6

In this section—

                     “ landlord ” includes any person who has a right under
the lease to enforce payment of a service charge (within the meaning of
section 18);
“ relevant person ” means—
if the landlord is an accountable person for the building, the landlord or a
special measures manager for the building;
otherwise, any superior landlord who is an accountable person for the building
or a special measures manager for the building;
“ relevant social housing tenancy ” has the meaning given in section 132 of
the Land Registration Act 2002;
“ tenant ” includes any person who has an obligation under the lease to pay a
service charge (within the meaning of section 18).

112.2.30D.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
subsection  (4)  so as to add, remove or modify a building safety measure.

112.2.30D.8

The regulations may make incidental, transitional or saving provision.

112.2.30D.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (7)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

############ Liability for remuneration of building safety director of resident management company etc

112.2.30E

112.2.30E.1

This section applies to a lease of premises which consist of or include a
dwelling in a higher-risk building if—

112.2.30E.1.a

the landlord is an accountable person for the building,

112.2.30E.1.b

the landlord is—

112.2.30E.1.b.i

a resident management company within the meaning of section 111 of the
Building Safety Act 2022, or

112.2.30E.1.b.ii

an RTM company within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002 (right to manage), and

112.2.30E.1.c

the tenant is liable to pay a service charge.

112.2.30E.2

The lease has effect—

112.2.30E.2.a

as if it contained provision authorising the appointment of a person (whether
or not a leaseholder or a resident of the building) as a director of the
landlord for a building safety purpose,

112.2.30E.2.b

as if the matters for which the service charge is payable under the lease
included remunerating any director of the landlord appointed for a building
safety purpose (insofar as this would not otherwise be the case), and

112.2.30E.2.c

where the lease contains different methods for apportioning different relevant
costs (within the meaning of section 18), as if it provided that any costs for
which the tenant is liable by virtue only of paragraph (b) to be apportioned
in the same way as costs incurred in connection with insuring the building.

112.2.30E.3

In this section—

                     “ building safety purpose ” means the purpose of
supporting the landlord in complying with its duties under Part 4 of the
Building Safety Act 2022 or under regulations made under that Part;
“ landlord ” includes any person who has a right under the lease to enforce
payment of a service charge;
“ service charge ” has the meaning given by section 18;
“ tenant ” includes any person who has an obligation under the lease to pay a
service charge.

############ Restrictions on contracting out of sections 

112.2.30F

112.2.30F.1

A covenant or agreement, whether contained in a lease to which section  30C
(implied terms) applies or in an agreement collateral to such a lease, is void
in so far as it purports—

112.2.30F.1.a

to exclude or limit the obligations of the landlord or the tenant under
section  30C , or

112.2.30F.1.b

to authorise any forfeiture or impose on the tenant any penalty, disability or
obligation in the event of the tenant enforcing or relying upon the
obligations of the landlord.

112.2.30F.2

A covenant or agreement, whether contained in a lease to which section  30D
or  30E  applies or in an agreement collateral to such a lease, is void
insofar as it purports to modify the effect of section  30D (3)  or  30E (2) .

############ Jurisdiction of county court

112.2.30G

The county court has jurisdiction to deal with any claim or other proceedings
arising under or in connection with any of sections  30C  to  30E  (implied
terms etc) notwithstanding that by reason of the amount of the claim or
otherwise the case would not, apart from this section, be within the
jurisdiction of the county court.

############ Specific performance of implied terms

112.2.30H

In proceedings relating to a breach of a covenant in section  30C (2)  or  (3)
(implied building safety terms), the court may order specific performance of
the covenant—

112.2.30H.a

notwithstanding any equitable rule restricting the scope of the remedy,
whether on the basis of a lack of mutuality or otherwise, and

112.2.30H.b

in the case of a breach of a covenant in section  30C (2)  or  (3) (b)  or
(c) , whether or not the breach relates to a part of the higher-risk building
let to the tenant.

############ Interpretation of building safety provisions

112.2.30I

In sections  30C  to  30H —

   “ accountable person ” has the meaning given in section 115 of the Building
Safety Act 2022;
“ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given in section 115 of that Act;
“ lease ” does not include a mortgage term;
“ special measures manager ” has the meaning given in paragraph  1  of
Schedule 7  to the Building Safety Act 2022;
“ special measures order ” has the meaning given in paragraph  1  of  Schedule
7  to that Act.

112.3

After section 20E (inserted by section 133) insert—

########### Limitation of service charges: excluded costs for higher-risk buildings

112.3.20F

112.3.20F.1

This section applies in relation to a lease to which section 30D (higher-risk
buildings: building safety costs) applies.

112.3.20F.2

Excluded costs are not to be regarded as relevant costs to be taken into
account in determining the amount of service charge payable by a tenant under
the lease.

112.3.20F.3

In this section “ excluded costs ” means any of the following incurred in
connection with Part 4 of the Building Safety Act 2022 or regulations made
under that Part—

112.3.20F.3.a

costs incurred or to be incurred by or on behalf of a relevant person solely
as a result of any penalty imposed or enforcement action taken by the
regulator;

112.3.20F.3.b

legal costs incurred or to be incurred by or on behalf of a relevant person in
connection with special measures order proceedings;

112.3.20F.3.c

costs incurred or to be incurred by or on behalf of a relevant person by
reason of any negligence, breach of contract or unlawful act on the part of
that relevant person or a person acting on their behalf;

112.3.20F.3.d

costs of a description prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of
State that are incurred or to be incurred by or on behalf of an accountable
person or special measures manager for the building in connection with the
taking of building safety measures.

112.3.20F.4

In this section—

            “ building safety measures ” has the meaning given by section 30D;
“ enforcement action ” means action taken with a view to, or in connection
with—
securing compliance with Part 4 of the Building Safety Act 2022 or regulations
made under that Part, or
the imposition of a sanction in respect of a contravention of that Part or
those regulations;
“ the regulator ” has the meaning given by section 115 of the Building Safety
Act 2022;
“ relevant person ” means—
where the landlord under the lease is an accountable person for the higher-
risk building, the landlord or a special measures manager for the higher-risk
building;
where the landlord is not such an accountable person, any superior landlord
who is an accountable person for the higher-risk building or a special
measures manager for the higher-risk building;
“ special measures order proceedings ” means any proceedings relating to the
making, variation or discharge of, or the giving of directions in relation to,
a special measures order under Schedule  7  to the Building Safety Act 2022
(including any appeals in relation to such proceedings).

112.3.20F.5

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

112.3.20F.6

A power to make regulations includes power to make—

112.3.20F.6.a

incidental, transitional or saving provision;

112.3.20F.6.b

different provision for different purposes.

112.3.20F.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

112.4

In section 21 (service charge information) after subsection (6) insert—

112.4.6A

In particular, regulations which make provision about higher-risk buildings
(within the meaning of Part 4 of the Building Safety Act 2022) need not
contain provision of a kind mentioned in subsection (2) or (3).

112.5

In section 30 (meaning of “ landlord ” and “ tenant ”)—

112.5.a

after the definition of “landlord” insert—

                                                               “ services ”
includes, in relation to a dwelling in a higher-risk building (as defined by
section  30I ), building safety measures within the meaning of section 30D;

;

112.5.b

in the heading for ““flat”, “landlord” and “tenant”” substitute  ““landlord”,
“tenant” etc” .

112.6

In section 32(1) (business tenancies), after the entry relating to section 17
insert—

                                             section  30C  (implied terms
relation to building safety),
section  30D  (building safety costs),
section  30E  (liability for remuneration of building safety director of
resident management company etc).

112.7

In section 172(1)(a) of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002
(application to Crown)—

112.7.a

for “30B” substitute  “ 30I ” ;

112.7.b

after “agents” insert  “and building safety” .

##### Provision of building safety information

113

113.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (4) .

113.2

After section 47 insert—

########### Building safety information to be contained in demands for rent etc: England

113.2.47A

113.2.47A.1

Where premises to which this Part applies are premises in England which
consist of or include a dwelling in a higher-risk building, any written demand
given to a tenant of the premises must contain the relevant building safety
information.

113.2.47A.2

Where—

113.2.47A.2.a

a tenant of such premises is given such a demand, but

113.2.47A.2.b

the demand does not contain the relevant building safety information,

any part of the amount demanded which consists of a service charge or an
administration charge (“ the relevant amount ”) is to be treated for all
purposes as not being due from the tenant to the landlord at any time before
the landlord gives the relevant building safety information to the tenant.

113.2.47A.3

But the relevant amount is not to be so treated in relation to any time when—

113.2.47A.3.a

by virtue of an order of any court or tribunal there is in force an
appointment of a receiver or manager whose functions include the receiving of
service charges or administration charges from the tenant, or

113.2.47A.3.b

a special measures order (within the meaning of Schedule  7  to the Building
Safety Act 2022) is in force.

113.2.47A.4

In this section—

            “ demand ” has the meaning given in section 47;
“ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given in section 115 of the Building
Safety Act 2022;
“ relevant building safety information ” has the meaning given in section  49A
.

113.3

After section 49 insert—

########### Notification by landlord of building safety information: England

113.3.49A

113.3.49A.1

Where premises to which this Part applies are premises in England which
consist of or include a dwelling in a higher-risk building, the landlord must
give the tenant a notice containing the relevant building safety information.

113.3.49A.2

Where a landlord fails to give a notice to a tenant in accordance with
subsection  (1) , any rent, service charge or administration charge otherwise
due from the tenant to the landlord is to be treated for all purposes as not
being due from the tenant to the landlord at any time before the landlord
gives the notice to the tenant.

113.3.49A.3

But any such rent, service charge or administration charge is not to be so
treated in relation to any time when—

113.3.49A.3.a

by virtue of an order of any court or tribunal there is in force an
appointment of a receiver or manager whose functions include the receiving of
rent, service charges or administration charges from the tenant, or

113.3.49A.3.b

a special measures order (within the meaning of Schedule  7  to the Building
Safety Act 2022) is in force.

113.3.49A.4

The requirement to give a notice to a tenant under subsection  (1)  may be
satisfied by giving the notice to them at a time when they are a prospective
tenant.

113.3.49A.5

In this section “ relevant building safety information ” means—

113.3.49A.5.a

the fact that the premises consist of or include a dwelling in a higher-risk
building;

113.3.49A.5.b

the name of each person listed in subsection  (6) ;

113.3.49A.5.c

an email address and telephone number through which each person listed in
subsection (6) may be contacted;

113.3.49A.5.d

a postal address in England and Wales at which notices (including notices in
proceedings) may be served by the tenant on the principal accountable person
for the higher-risk building;

113.3.49A.5.e

a postal address for the regulator;

113.3.49A.5.f

such other information as may be prescribed in regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

113.3.49A.6

The persons are—

113.3.49A.6.a

the principal accountable person for the higher-risk building;

113.3.49A.6.b

any special measures manager for the higher-risk building;

113.3.49A.6.c

the regulator.

113.3.49A.7

In this section—

            “ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given in section 115 of
the Building Safety Act 2022;
“ principal accountable person ” has the meaning given in section 115 of that
Act;
“ the regulator ” has the meaning given in section 115 of that Act;
“ special measures manager ” has the meaning given in paragraph 1 of Schedule
7  to that Act.

113.4

In section 53(2)(b) (regulations and orders), after “42A” insert  “or 49A” .

113.5

In section 172(1)(d) of the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002
(application to Crown), for “49” substitute  “49A” .

##### Commonholds

114

114.1

The Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 is amended as follows.

114.2

In section 13(3) (joint unit-holders), after paragraph (fa) insert—

114.2.faa

section  38A (1) ,

.

114.3

In section 14 (use and maintenance)—

114.3.a

in the heading, for “and maintenance” substitute  “, maintenance and building
safety” ;

114.3.b

after subsection (3) insert—

114.3.b.4

A commonhold community statement for a higher-risk commonhold must make
provision requiring the commonhold association to comply with its duties under
Part 4  of the Building Safety Act 2022, or regulations made under that Part
of the Act, in relation to each commonhold unit.

114.4

In section 26 (use and maintenance)—

114.4.a

in the heading, for “and maintenance” substitute  “, maintenance and building
safety” ;

114.4.b

the existing subsection becomes  subsection (1) ;

114.4.c

after that subsection insert—

114.4.c.2

A commonhold community statement for a higher-risk commonhold must make
provision requiring the commonhold association to comply with its duties under
Part 4  of the Building Safety Act 2022, or regulations made under that Part
of that Act, in relation to the common parts.

114.5

In section 31(5) (form and content of commonhold community statement), after
paragraph (d) insert—

114.5.da

to give information;

114.5.db

to apply for grants or other funding;

.

114.6

In section 32(5)(a) (regulations), after “38,” insert  “ 38A ,” .

114.7

In section 38 (commonhold assessment), after subsection (2) insert—

114.7.3

In subsection (1)(a) “ expenses of the association ” does not include building
safety expenses of the association (within the meaning of section  38A ).

114.8

After section 38 insert—

########### Building safety assessment

114.8.38A

114.8.38A.1

A commonhold community statement for a higher-risk commonhold must make
provision—

114.8.38A.1.a

requiring the directors of the commonhold association to make an annual
estimate of the income required to be raised from unit-holders to meet the
building safety expenses of the association,

114.8.38A.1.b

enabling the directors of the commonhold association to make estimates from
time to time of income required to be raised from unit-holders in addition to
the annual estimate,

114.8.38A.1.c

specifying the percentage of any estimate made under paragraph  (a)  or  (b)
which is to be allocated to each unit,

114.8.38A.1.d

requiring each unit-holder to make payments in respect of the percentage of
any estimate which is allocated to their unit, and

114.8.38A.1.e

requiring the directors of the commonhold association to serve notices on
unit-holders specifying payments required to be made by them and the date on
which each payment is due.

114.8.38A.2

For the purpose of subsection  (1) (c) —

114.8.38A.2.a

the percentages allocated by a commonhold community statement to the
commonhold units must amount in aggregate to 100;

114.8.38A.2.b

a commonhold community statement may specify 0 per cent in relation to a unit.

114.8.38A.3

In this section—

            “ building safety expenses of the association ” means the expenses
incurred by the commonhold association or special measures manager for the
higher-risk building in connection with taking measures that the association
or manager is required or permitted to take under  Part 4  of the Building
Safety Act 2022, or regulations made under that Part of that Act;
“ special measures manager ” means a person appointed under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 7 to the Building Safety Act 2022.

114.9

In section 69(1) (interpretation), before the definition of “instrument”
insert—

                                             “ higher-risk building ” has the
meaning given by section 115 of the Building Safety Act 2022,
“ higher-risk commonhold ” means a commonhold in England that includes all or
any part of a higher-risk building,

.

#### Interpretation

##### Interpretation of 

115

In  this Part —

                  “ accountable person ” has the meaning given by section 72;
“ building safety risk ” has the meaning given by section 62;
“ compliance notice ” has the same meaning as in section 99;
“ contravention ” includes a failure to comply;
“ the data protection legislation ” has the meaning given by section 30;
“ fire and rescue authority ” has the meaning given by section 30;
“ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given by section 65;
“ local authority ” has the meaning given by section 30;
“ long lease ” means—
a lease granted for a term certain exceeding 21 years, whether or not it is
(or may become) terminable before the end of that term by notice given by the
tenant or by re-entry or forfeiture, or
a lease for a term fixed by law under a grant with a covenant or obligation
for perpetual renewal, other than a lease by sub-demise from one which is not
a long lease;
“ major incident ” has the meaning given by section 63;
“ maximum summary term for either-way offences ” has the meaning given by
section 30;
“ occupied ”: any reference to an “occupied” higher-risk building is to be
read in accordance with section 71;
“ owner ” means the person—
for the time being receiving the rackrent of the premises in question, whether
on the person’s own account or as agent or trustee for another person, or
who would so receive it if those premises were let at a rackrent;
and for this purpose “ rackrent ” has the meaning given by section 126 of the
Building Act 1984;
“ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State;
“ principal accountable person ” has the meaning given by section 73;
“ registered provider of social housing ” has the meaning given by section 80
of the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008;
“ the regulator ” has the meaning given by section 2;
“ resident ” and “resident of a higher-risk building” have the meaning given
by section 71;
“ residential unit ” means—
a dwelling, or
any other unit of living accommodation;
“ responsible ”: any reference to the part of a higher-risk building for which
an accountable person is responsible is to be read in accordance with section
74;
“ special measures manager ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1  of
Schedule 7 ;
“ special measures order ” has the meaning given by  paragraph 1  of  Schedule
7 ;
“ the tribunal ” means the First-tier Tribunal.

### Other provision about safety, standards etc

#### Remediation of certain defects

##### Remediation of certain defects

116

116.1

Sections 117 to  124  and  Schedule 8  make provision in connection with the
remediation of relevant defects in relevant buildings.

116.2

In those sections—

116.2.a

sections 117 to 121 define “relevant building”, “qualifying lease”, “the
qualifying time”, “relevant defect” and “associate”;

116.2.b

section 122 and  Schedule 8  contain protections for tenants in respect of
costs connected with relevant defects, and impose liabilities on certain
landlords;

116.2.c

section 123 makes provision about remediation orders, under which a landlord
in a relevant building is required to remedy certain relevant defects;

116.2.d

section 124 makes provision about remediation contribution orders, under which
an associate of a landlord in a relevant building is required to contribute
towards the costs of remedying certain relevant defects;

116.2.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Meaning of “relevant building”

117

117.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 119 to  124  and  Schedule 8
.

117.2

“ Relevant building ” means a self-contained building, or self-contained part
of a building, in England that contains at least two dwellings and—

117.2.a

is at least 11 metres high, or

117.2.b

has at least 5 storeys.

This is subject to subsection (3).

117.3

“ Relevant building ” does not include a self-contained building or self-
contained part of a building—

117.3.a

in relation to which a right under Part 1 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987
(tenants’ right of first refusal) or Part 3 of that Act (compulsory
acquisition by tenants of landlord’s interest) has been exercised,

117.3.b

in relation to which the right to collective enfranchisement (within the
meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban
Development Act 1993) has been exercised,

117.3.c

if the freehold estate in the building or part of the building is leaseholder
owned (within the meaning of regulations made by the Secretary of State), or

117.3.d

which is on commonhold land.

117.4

For the purposes of this section a building is “self-contained” if it is
structurally detached.

117.5

For the purposes of this section a part of a building is “self-contained” if—

117.5.a

the part constitutes a vertical division of the building,

117.5.b

the structure of the building is such that the part could be redeveloped
independently of the remainder of the building, and

117.5.c

the relevant services provided for occupiers of that part—

117.5.c.i

are provided independently of the relevant services provided for occupiers of
the remainder of the building, or

117.5.c.ii

could be so provided without involving the carrying out of any works likely to
result in a significant interruption in the provision of any such services for
occupiers of the remainder of the building.

117.6

In subsection  (5)  “ relevant services ” means services provided by means of
pipes, cables or other fixed installations.

##### Section 117: height of buildings and number of storeys

118

118.1

This section applies for the purpose of section 117.

118.2

The height of a building is to be measured from ground level to the finished
surface of the floor of the top storey of the building (ignoring any storey
which is a roof-top machinery or plant area or consists exclusively of
machinery or plant rooms).

118.3

When determining the number of storeys in a building—

118.3.a

any storey below ground level is to be disregarded;

118.3.b

any mezzanine floor is to be regarded as a storey if its internal floor area
is at least half of the internal floor area of the largest storey in the
building which is not below ground level.

118.4

In subsection  (2)  “ ground level ”, in relation to a building, means—

118.4.a

the level of the surface of the ground immediately adjacent to the building,
or

118.4.b

where the level of the surface of the ground on which the building is situated
is not uniform, the level of the lowest part of the surface of the ground
immediately adjacent to it.

118.5

For the purposes of subsection  (3)  a storey is “below ground level” if any
part of the finished surface of the ceiling of the storey is below the level
of the surface of the ground immediately adjacent to that part of the
building.

##### Meaning of “qualifying lease” and “the qualifying time”

119

119.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 122 to  124  and  Schedule 8
.

119.2

A lease is a “qualifying lease” if—

119.2.a

it is a long lease of a single dwelling in a relevant building,

119.2.b

the tenant under the lease is liable to pay a service charge,

119.2.c

the lease was granted before 14 February 2022, and

119.2.d

at the beginning of 14 February 2022 (“the qualifying time”)—

119.2.d.i

the dwelling was a relevant tenant’s only or principal home,

119.2.d.ii

a relevant tenant did not own any other dwelling in the United Kingdom, or

119.2.d.iii

a relevant tenant owned no more than two dwellings in the United Kingdom apart
from their interest under the lease.

119.3

Where a dwelling was at the qualifying time let under two or more leases to
which subsection  (2) (a)  and  (b)  apply, any of those leases which is
superior to any of the other leases is not a “qualifying lease”.

119.3A

A connected replacement lease (see section 119A) is also a “qualifying lease”.

119.4

For the purposes of this section—

119.4.a

“ long lease ” means a lease granted for a term of years certain exceeding 21
years, whether or not it is (or may become) terminable before the end of that
term by notice given by or to the tenant or by re-entry, forfeiture or
otherwise;

119.4.b

a person “owns” a dwelling in England, Wales or Northern Ireland if the person
has a freehold interest in it or is a tenant under a long lease of it;

119.4.c

“ relevant tenant ” means a person who, at the qualifying time, was the
tenant, or any of the tenants, under the lease mentioned in subsection  (2) ;

119.4.d

“ service charge ” has the meaning given by section 18 of the Landlord and
Tenant Act 1985.

##### Meaning of “connected replacement lease”

119A

119A.1

For the purposes of section 119 (and this section) a lease (the “new lease”)
is a “connected replacement lease” if—

119A.1.a

the new lease is a lease of a single dwelling in a relevant building,

119A.1.b

the tenant under the new lease is liable to pay a service charge,

119A.1.c

the new lease was granted on or after 14 February 2022,

119A.1.d

the new lease replaces—

119A.1.d.i

one other lease, which is a qualifying lease (whether under section 119(2) or
(3A)), or

119A.1.d.ii

two or more other leases, at least one of which is a qualifying lease (whether
under section 119(2) or (3A)), and

119A.1.e

there is continuity in the property let.

119A.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(d), the new lease replaces another lease
if—

119A.2.a

the term of the new lease begins during the term of the other lease, and the
new lease is granted in substitution of the other lease, or

119A.2.b

the term of the new lease begins at the end of the term of the other lease
(regardless of when the lease is granted).

119A.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)(a), the circumstances in which the new
lease is granted in substitution of another lease include circumstances where—

119A.3.a

the new lease is granted by way of a surrender and regrant of the other lease
(including a deemed surrender and regrant, whether deemed under an enactment
or otherwise);

119A.3.b

the new lease is granted under—

119A.3.b.i

section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (renewed business leases),

119A.3.b.ii

section 14 of, or Schedule 1 to, the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (extension of
leases of houses), or

119A.3.b.iii

section 56 of the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban Development Act 1993
(extension of leases of flats),

in a case where that provision of that Act applies by virtue of the other
lease.

119A.4

For the purposes of subsection (1)(e) there is continuity in the property let
if—

119A.4.a

the newly let property is exactly the same as the already let property,

119A.4.b

the newly let property consists of some or all of the already let property,
together with other property (whether or not that other property was
previously let) (a “property combination”), or

119A.4.c

the newly let property consists of some, but not all, of the already let
property (but no other property) (a “property reduction”).

119A.5

But there is no continuity in the property let by virtue of a property
reduction if, as respects any lease in the relevant chain of qualifying
leases, there was continuity in the property let by virtue of a property
combination.

119A.6

For that purpose, the “relevant” chain of qualifying leases is the chain of
qualifying leases of which the new lease would be part were it a connected
replacement lease.

119A.7

For the purposes of subsection (1)(e) there is also continuity in the property
let if the new lease is granted to rectify any error in the lease, or any
lease, which the new lease replaces.

119A.8

Where a dwelling is at any time on or after 14 February 2022 let under two or
more leases to which subsection (1)(a) and (b) apply, any of the leases which
is superior to any of the other leases is not a connected replacement lease.

119A.9

For the purposes of sections 122 to  124  and Schedule 8, all of the leases in
a chain of qualifying leases are to be treated as a single qualifying lease
which has a term that—

119A.9.a

began when the term of the initial qualifying lease in that chain began, and

119A.9.b

ends when the term of the current connected replacement lease in that chain
ends.

119A.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the meaning of
“ connected replacement lease ” (including provision changing the meaning).

119A.11

The provision that may be made in regulations under this section includes—

119A.11.a

provision which amends this section;

119A.11.b

provision which has retrospective effect.

119A.12

Provision in regulations under this section made by virtue of section
168(2)(a) (consequential provision etc) may (in particular) amend this Act.

119A.13

In this section—

“ already let property ”, in relation to a new lease, means the property let
by the lease or leases which the new lease replaces; “ chain of qualifying
leases ” means— an initial qualifying lease which is the preceding qualifying
lease in relation to a connected replacement lease (the “first replacement
lease”), the first replacement lease, and any other connected replacement
lease if the preceding qualifying lease in relation to it is— the first
replacement lease, or any other connected replacement lease which is in the
chain of qualifying leases; and a chain of qualifying leases may accordingly
consist of different leases at different times (if further connected
replacement leases are granted); “ current connected replacement lease ”, in
relation to a particular time, means a connected replacement lease during the
term of which that time falls; “ initial qualifying lease ” means a lease
which is a qualifying lease under section 119(2); “ new lease ” has the
meaning given in subsection (1); “ newly let property ” means the property let
by the new lease; “ preceding qualifying lease ”, in relation to the new
lease, means— in a case within subsection (1)(d)(i), the lease which the new
lease replaces; in a case within subsection (1)(d)(ii), a lease which— the new
lease replaces, and is a qualifying lease.

119A.14

The definitions in section 119(4) also apply for the purposes of this section.

##### Meaning of “relevant defect” 

120

120.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 122 to  124  and  Schedule 8
.

120.2

“ Relevant defect ”, in relation to a building, means a defect as regards the
building that—

120.2.a

arises as a result of anything done (or not done), or anything used (or not
used), in connection with relevant works, and

120.2.b

causes a building safety risk.

120.3

In subsection  (2)  “ relevant works ” means any of the following—

120.3.a

works relating to the construction or conversion of the building, if the
construction or conversion was completed in the relevant period;

120.3.b

works undertaken or commissioned by or on behalf of a relevant landlord or
management company, if the works were completed in the relevant period;

120.3.c

works undertaken after the end of the relevant period to remedy a relevant
defect (including a defect that is a relevant defect by virtue of this
paragraph).

“The relevant period” here means the period of 30 years ending with the time
this section comes into force.

120.4

In subsection  (2)  the reference to anything done (or not done) in connection
with relevant works includes anything done (or not done) in the provision of
professional services in connection with such works.

120.4A

“ Relevant steps ”, in relation to a relevant defect, means steps which have
as their purpose—

120.4A.a

preventing or reducing the likelihood of a fire or collapse of the building
(or any part of it) occurring as a result of the relevant defect,

120.4A.b

reducing the severity of any such incident, or

120.4A.c

preventing or reducing harm to people in or about the building that could
result from such an incident.

120.5

For the purposes of this section—

“ building safety risk ”, in relation to a building, means a risk to the
safety of people in or about the building arising from— the spread of fire, or
the collapse of the building or any part of it; “ conversion ” means the
conversion of the building for use (wholly or partly) for residential
purposes; “ relevant landlord or management company ” means a landlord under a
lease of the building or any part of it or any person who is party to such a
lease otherwise than as landlord or tenant.

##### Associated persons

121

121.1

For the purposes of sections 122 to  124  and  Schedule 8 , a partnership or
body corporate is associated with another person in the circumstances
mentioned in subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

121.2

Where a person’s interest in a relevant building was held on trust at the
qualifying time, any partnership or body corporate which was a beneficiary of
the trust at that time is to be regarded, for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned in subsection  (1)  as they apply in relation to the relevant
building, as associated with the person.

121.3

A partnership is associated with any person who was a partner in the
partnership, other than a limited partner, at any time in the period of 5
years ending at the qualifying time (“ the relevant period ”).

121.4

A body corporate is associated with any person who was a director of the body
corporate at any time in the relevant period.

121.5

A body corporate is associated with another body corporate if—

121.5.a

at any time in the relevant period a person was a director of both of them, or

121.5.b

at the qualifying time, one of them controlled the other or a third body
corporate controlled both of them.

Subsections  (6)  to  (8)  set out the cases in which a body corporate is
regarded as controlling another body corporate.

121.6

A body corporate (X) controls a company (Y) if X possesses or is entitled to
acquire—

121.6.a

at least half of the issued share capital of Y,

121.6.b

such rights as would entitle X to exercise at least half of the votes
exercisable in general meetings of Y,

121.6.c

such part of the issued share capital of Y as would entitle X to at least half
of the amount distributed, if the whole of the income of Y were in fact
distributed among the shareholders, or

121.6.d

such rights as would, in the event of the winding up of Y or in any other
circumstances, entitle it to receive at least half of the assets of Y which
would then be available for distribution among the shareholders.

121.7

A body corporate (X) controls a limited liability partnership (Y) if X—

121.7.a

holds a majority of the voting rights in Y,

121.7.b

is a member of Y and has a right to appoint or remove a majority of other
members, or

121.7.c

is a member of Y and controls alone, or pursuant to an agreement with other
members, a majority of the voting rights in Y.

121.8

A body corporate (X) controls another body corporate (Y) if X has the power,
directly or indirectly, to secure that the affairs of Y are conducted in
accordance with X’s wishes.

121.9

In subsection  (7)  a reference to “voting rights” is to the rights conferred
on members in respect of their interest in a limited liability partnership to
vote on those matters which are to be decided on by a vote of the members of
the limited liability partnership.

121.10

In determining whether one body corporate (X) controls another, X is treated
as possessing—

121.10.a

any rights and powers possessed by a person as nominee for it, and

121.10.b

any rights and powers possessed by a body corporate which it controls
(including rights and powers which such a body corporate would be taken to
possess by virtue of this paragraph).

121.11

In this section “ partnership ” means—

121.11.a

a partnership within the meaning of the Partnership Act 1890, or

121.11.b

a limited partnership registered under the Limited Partnerships Act 1907,

or a firm or entity of a similar character formed under the law of a country
or territory outside the United Kingdom (and the reference to “limited
partner” is to be read accordingly).

121.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, in relation to a
prescribed reference in a provision mentioned in subsection  (1)  to anyone
associated with another person, subsections  (2)  to  (5)  have effect with
prescribed modifications.

##### Remediation costs under qualifying leases etc

122

Schedule 8 —

122.a

provides that certain service charge amounts relating to relevant defects in a
relevant building are not payable, and

122.b

makes provision for the recovery of those amounts from persons who are
landlords under leases of the building (or any part of it).

##### Remediation orders

123

123.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with remediation orders.

123.2

A “remediation order” is an order, made by the First-tier Tribunal on the
application of an interested person, requiring a relevant landlord to  do one
or both of the following by a specified time—

123.2.a

remedy specified relevant defects in a specified relevant building;

123.2.b

take specified relevant steps in relation to a specified relevant defect in a
specified relevant building.

123.3

In this section “ relevant landlord ”, in relation to a relevant defect in a
relevant building, means a landlord under a lease of the building or any part
of it who is required, under the lease or by virtue of an enactment, to repair
or maintain anything relating to the relevant defect.

123.4

In subsection  (3)  the reference to a landlord under a lease includes any
person who is party to the lease otherwise than as landlord or tenant.

123.5

In this section “ interested person ”, in relation to a relevant building,
means—

123.5.a

the regulator (as defined by section 2),

123.5.b

a local authority (as defined by section 30) for the area in which the
relevant building is situated,

123.5.c

a fire and rescue authority (as defined by section 30) for the area in which
the relevant building is situated,

123.5.d

a person with a legal or equitable interest in the relevant building or any
part of it, or

123.5.e

any other person prescribed by the regulations.

123.6

In this section—

“ relevant building ”: see section 117; “ relevant defect ”: see section 120;
“ relevant steps ”: see section 120; “ specified ” means specified in the
order.

123.7

A decision of the First-tier Tribunal or Upper Tribunal made under or in
connection with this section (other than one ordering the payment of a sum) is
enforceable with the permission of the county court in the same way as an
order of that court.

123.8

In proceedings for a remediation order, a direction given by the First-tier
Tribunal requiring a relevant landlord to provide or produce an expert report
is to be regarded as a decision for the purposes of subsection (7).

123.9

In subsection  (8) , “ expert report ” means an expert report or survey
relating to—

123.9.a

relevant defects, or potential relevant defects, in a relevant building;

123.9.b

relevant steps taken or that might be taken in relation to a relevant defect
in a relevant building.

##### Remediation contribution orders

124

124.1

The First-tier Tribunal may, on the application of an interested person, make
a remediation contribution order in relation to a relevant building if it
considers it just and equitable to do so.

124.2

“ Remediation contribution order ”, in relation to a relevant building, means
an order requiring a specified body corporate or partnership to make payments
to a specified person, for the purpose of meeting costs incurred or to be
incurred in remedying  , or otherwise in connection with,  relevant defects
(or specified relevant defects) relating to the relevant building.

124.2A

The following descriptions of costs, among others, fall within subsection (2)—

124.2A.a

costs incurred or to be incurred in taking relevant steps in relation to a
relevant defect in the relevant building;

124.2A.b

costs incurred or to be incurred in obtaining an expert report relating to the
relevant building;

124.2A.c

temporary accommodation costs incurred or to be incurred in connection with a
decant from the relevant building (or from part of it) that took place or is
to take place—

124.2A.c.i

to avoid an imminent threat to life or of personal injury arising from a
relevant defect in the building,

124.2A.c.ii

(in the case of a decant from a dwelling) because works relating to the
building created or are expected to create circumstances in which those
occupying the dwelling cannot reasonably be expected to live, or

124.2A.c.iii

for any other reason connected with relevant defects in the building, or works
relating to the building, that is prescribed by regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

124.2B

The Secretary of State may make regulations for the purposes of this section
specifying descriptions of costs which are, or are not, to be regarded as
falling within subsection (2).

124.3

A body corporate or partnership may be specified  as a person required to make
payments  only if it is—

124.3.a

a landlord under a lease of the relevant building or any part of it,

124.3.b

a person who was such a landlord at the qualifying time,

124.3.c

a developer in relation to the relevant building, or

124.3.d

a person associated with a person within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

124.4

An order may—

124.4.a

require the making of payments of a specified amount,  ...;

124.4.aa

if it does not require the making of payments of a specified amount, determine
that a specified body corporate or partnership is liable for the reasonable
costs of specified things done or to be done;

124.4.b

require a payment to be made at a specified time, or to be made on demand
following the occurrence of a specified event.

124.5

In this section—

“ associated ”: see section 121; “ developer ”, in relation to a relevant
building, means a person who undertook or commissioned the construction or
conversion of the building (or part of the building) with a view to granting
or disposing of interests in the building or parts of it; “ expert report ”
has the meaning given by section 123(9); “ interested person ”, in relation to
a relevant building, means— the Secretary of State, the regulator (as defined
by section 2), a local authority (as defined by section 30) for the area in
which the relevant building is situated, a fire and rescue authority (as
defined by section 30) for the area in which the relevant building is
situated, a person with a legal or equitable interest in the relevant building
or any part of it, or any other person prescribed by regulations made by the
Secretary of State; “ partnership ” has the meaning given by section 121; “
relevant building ”: see section 117; “ relevant defect ”: see section 120; “
relevant steps ”: see section 120; “ specified ” means specified in the order.
“ temporary accommodation costs ”, in relation to a decant from a relevant
building, means— the costs of the temporary accommodation, and other costs
resulting from the decant, including removal costs, storage costs and
reasonable travel costs; “ works ” means works— to remedy a relevant defect in
a relevant building, or in connection with the taking of relevant steps in
relation to such a defect.

124.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that this section applies,
with or without modifications, in relation to a building that would, but for
section 117 (3) , be a relevant building.

##### Meeting remediation costs of insolvent landlord

125

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Insolvency of certain persons with an interest in higher-risk and relevant buildings

##### Notifications by insolvency practitioners

125A

125A.1

This section applies if an insolvency practitioner is appointed in relation to
a responsible person for a higher-risk building or a relevant building.

125A.2

For the purposes of this section, a person is “a responsible person” for a
building if—

125A.2.a

in the case of a higher-risk building, the person is an accountable person for
the building (see section 72 for the meaning of “accountable person” for a
higher-risk building);

125A.2.b

in the case of a relevant building that is not a higher-risk building, the
person would be an accountable person for the building if section 72 were read
as applying to such a building (and as if the reference in that section to a
residential unit were a reference to a dwelling).

125A.3

The insolvency practitioner must give the information in subsection  (6)
(“the required information”) to—

125A.3.a

the local authority for the area in which the building for which the person is
a responsible person is situated, or (if applicable) each local authority in
whose area a building for which the person is a responsible person is
situated, and

125A.3.b

the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building for which the
person is a responsible person is situated, or (if applicable) each fire and
rescue authority in whose area a building for which the person is a
responsible person is situated.

125A.4

If the insolvency practitioner is appointed in relation to an accountable
person for a higher-risk building, the practitioner must also give the
required information to the regulator.

125A.5

The required information must be provided within the period of 14 days
beginning with the day on which the insolvency practitioner is appointed.

125A.6

The information is as follows—

125A.6.a

the name and address of the person in relation to whom the insolvency
practitioner is appointed;

125A.6.b

the address of each higher-risk building or relevant building for which the
person is a responsible person (but see subsection  (7) );

125A.6.c

an official copy of the register of title and title plan relating to each
registered estate or interest the person holds in such a building, if any (but
see subsection  (7) );

125A.6.d

the nature of the practitioner’s appointment;

125A.6.e

the practitioner’s name, address, telephone number and email address (if any);

125A.6.f

so much of the information set out in the table in rule 1.6 of the Insolvency
(England and Wales) Rules 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1024 ) as is known to the
practitioner.

125A.7

A local authority or fire and rescue authority need only be notified about
buildings, or registered estates or interests in buildings, in their area.

125A.8

In this section “ insolvency practitioner ” means—

125A.8.a

an administrator;

125A.8.b

an administrative receiver;

125A.8.c

a receiver appointed by the courts or by a mortgagee;

125A.8.d

a liquidator;

125A.8.e

a trustee in bankruptcy.

125A.9

In this section—

“ fire and rescue authority ” has the meaning given by section 30; “ higher-
risk building ” has the same meaning as in Part 4 (see section 65); “ local
authority ” has the meaning given by section 30; “ register of title ” means
the register kept under section 1 of the Land Registration Act 2002; “ the
regulator ” has the meaning given by section 2; “ relevant building ” has the
meaning given by section 117; “ title plan ” means a plan based on the
Ordnance Survey map and referred to in the register of title.

#### Building industry schemes

##### Building industry schemes

126

126.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

126.1.a

establish a scheme to be maintained by the Secretary of State, or a person
designated by the Secretary of State and acting on the Secretary of State’s
behalf, and

126.1.b

make provision about the scheme.

126.2

A scheme may be established for any purpose connected with—

126.2.a

securing the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks
arising from buildings, or

126.2.b

improving the standard of buildings,

including securing that safety, or improving that standard, by securing that
persons in the building industry remedy defects in buildings or contribute to
costs associated with remedying defects in buildings.

126.3

Regulations that establish a scheme must prescribe—

126.3.a

the descriptions of persons in the building industry who may be members of the
scheme (“eligible persons”), and

126.3.b

the conditions that an eligible person must meet in order to become, and
remain, a member of the scheme (“membership conditions”),

and may provide for different categories of membership.

126.4

The membership conditions that may be prescribed include in particular
conditions relating to—

126.4.a

the remedying of defects in buildings with which an eligible person has a
connection of a prescribed kind;

126.4.b

the making of financial contributions towards meeting costs associated with
remedying defects in buildings (including buildings with which an eligible
person has no connection);

126.4.c

the use (or use in prescribed cases) of construction products (or construction
products of a prescribed description) of prescribed persons carrying out
activities in relation to construction products;

126.4.d

the provision of information to the Secretary of State or any other person;

126.4.e

the competence or conduct of any individual connected with an eligible person
(for example, any director or senior manager of an eligible person) or any
person with whom an eligible person contracts;

126.4.f

whether persons with whom an eligible person contracts are members of a
scheme.

In paragraph  (e)  “ conduct ” includes conduct occurring before the coming
into force of this section.

126.5

The descriptions of persons prescribed by virtue of subsection  (4) (c)  may
in particular be prescribed by reference to—

126.5.a

being eligible to be members of a scheme and not being members of that scheme;

126.5.b

their conduct in relation to remedying defects in buildings or contributing to
costs associated with remedying defects in buildings.

126.6

The membership conditions that may be prescribed by virtue of subsection  (4)
(c)  include in particular a condition requiring an eligible person to ensure
that no prescribed product of prescribed persons carrying out activities in
relation to construction products is used in prescribed cases.

126.7

The Secretary of State must ensure that a list of members of a scheme is kept
and published (and may publish a list of persons who are eligible persons but
are not members of a scheme).

126.8

Regulations may make provision about the keeping and publication of other
lists.

##### Building industry schemes: supplementary

127

127.1

This section supplements section 126.

127.2

Regulations may make provision about—

127.2.a

applications for membership of a scheme;

127.2.b

renewal of membership at prescribed intervals;

127.2.c

termination of a person’s membership;

127.2.d

the suspension of a person from membership.

127.3

Regulations may provide for the charging of fees, in connection with—

127.3.a

an application for membership;

127.3.b

renewal of membership;

127.3.c

a review;

127.3.d

any other prescribed matter.

127.4

Regulations may provide for membership conditions to be framed by reference
to—

127.4.a

standards, or a document, from time to time published by any person;

127.4.b

the opinion of the Secretary of State, or a designated person, in relation to
any matter.

127.5

Regulations may make provision about the determination of disputes.

127.6

Regulations may make provision about the termination of a scheme.

127.7

In section 126 and this section—

“ building ” means a building in England; “ building industry ”: a reference
to persons in the building industry is to persons carrying on, for business
purposes, activities connected with the design, construction, management or
maintenance of buildings, including persons carrying out activities in
relation to construction products in England; “ construction product ” has the
meaning given by regulations; “ persons carrying out activities in relation to
construction products ” include (without limitation)— a manufacturer of
construction products, a person who markets or supplies construction products
to others, and a person who imports construction products into the United
Kingdom for use, marketing or supply; “ prescribed ” means prescribed by the
regulations; “ regulations ” means regulations under section 126; “ scheme ”
means a scheme established under section 126; “ standard ” (except in
subsection (4) of this section) is to be read in accordance with section 30.

#### Prohibitions on development and building control

##### Prohibition on development for prescribed persons

128

128.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations prohibit a person of a prescribed
description from carrying out development of land in England (or a prescribed
description of such development).

128.2

The descriptions of persons which may be prescribed include in particular
persons who—

128.2.a

are eligible to be members of a scheme established under section 126, and

128.2.b

are not members of that scheme.

128.3

A prohibition under the regulations may be imposed for any purpose connected
with—

128.3.a

securing the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks
arising from buildings, or

128.3.b

improving the standard of buildings,

including securing that safety, or improving that standard, by securing that
persons in the building industry remedy defects in buildings or contribute to
costs associated with remedying defects in buildings.

128.4

A prohibition under the regulations applies despite planning permission (or
any prescribed description of planning permission) having been granted.

128.5

The regulations may provide that, in prescribed cases, no prescribed
certificate under the 1990 Act may be granted (and any purported grant is of
no effect).

128.6

The regulations may require a person of a prescribed description to give a
notification relating to development (and may make provision about the content
and form of a notification and the way in which it is to be given).

128.7

The regulations may contain exceptions.

128.8

The regulations may make provision about enforcement, including in particular
provision applying (with or without modifications), in relation to a breach of
the regulations, any provision of Part 7 of the 1990 Act (enforcement).

128.9

For the purposes of this section—

128.9.a

“ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990;

128.9.b

“ building ” means a building in England;

128.9.c

“ development ” has the meaning given by section 55 of the 1990 Act;

128.9.d

“ planning permission ” has the meaning given by section 336 of the 1990 Act;

128.9.e

“ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations under this section;

128.9.f

“ standard ” is to be read in accordance with section 30.

##### Building control prohibitions

129

129.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations impose a building control
prohibition, as regards buildings or proposed buildings, in relation to
persons of a prescribed description.

129.2

The descriptions of persons which may be prescribed include in particular
persons who—

129.2.a

are eligible to be members of a scheme established under section 126, and

129.2.b

are not members of that scheme.

129.3

A building control prohibition may be imposed for any purpose connected with—

129.3.a

securing the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks
arising from buildings, or

129.3.b

improving the standard of buildings,

including securing that safety, or improving that standard, by securing that
persons in the building industry remedy defects in buildings or contribute to
costs associated with remedying defects in buildings.

129.4

A “ building control prohibition ”, in relation to a person, prohibits—

129.4.a

the person from applying for building control approval or from depositing
plans,

129.4.b

the person from giving an initial notice (whether or not jointly with anyone
else) or a public body’s notice, public body’s plans certificate or public
body’s final certificate,

129.4.c

the granting of building control approval to the person,

129.4.d

the passing of plans deposited by the person,

129.4.e

the acceptance of an initial notice given by the person (whether or not
jointly with anyone else) or a public body’s notice, public body’s plans
certificate or public body’s final certificate given by the person,

129.4.f

the giving of a final certificate in relation to works carried out by the
person,

129.4.g

the person from giving a prescribed document,

129.4.h

the giving of a prescribed document to the person or in respect of works
carried out by the person, or

129.4.i

the acceptance of any prescribed document given by the person or in respect of
works carried out by the person.

129.5

A building control prohibition applies despite any provision made by or under
the Building Act 1984.

129.6

The regulations may contain exceptions.

129.7

The regulations may provide that anything done in contravention of the
regulations is of no effect.

129.8

Any reference in this section to a building or proposed building is to a
building or proposed building in England.

129.9

In this section—

“ building” and “building control approval ”, and references to the deposit
and passing of plans, are to be read in accordance with Part 1 of the Building
Act 1984; “ initial notice”, “final certificate”, “public body’s notice”,
“public body’s plans certificate” and “public body’s final certificate ” have
the same meaning as in Part 2 of that Act; “ prescribed ” means prescribed by
regulations under this section; “ standard ” is to be read in accordance with
section 30.

#### Building liability orders

##### Building liability orders

130

130.1

The High Court may make a building liability order if it considers it just and
equitable to do so.

130.2

A “building liability order” is an order providing that any relevant liability
(or any relevant liability of a specified description) of a body corporate (“
the original body ”) relating to a specified building is also—

130.2.a

a liability of a specified body corporate, or

130.2.b

a joint and several liability of two or more specified bodies corporate.

130.3

In this section “ relevant liability ” means a liability (whether arising
before or after commencement) that is incurred—

130.3.a

under the Defective Premises Act 1972 or section 38 of the Building Act 1984,
or

130.3.b

as a result of a building safety risk.

130.4

A body corporate may be specified only if it is, or has at any time in the
relevant period been, associated with the original body.

130.5

A building liability order—

130.5.a

may be made in respect of a liability of a body corporate that has been
dissolved (including where dissolution occurred before commencement);

130.5.b

continues to have effect even if the body corporate is dissolved after the
making of the order.

130.6

In this section—

“ associate ”: see section 131; “ building safety risk ”, in relation to a
building, means a risk to the safety of people in or about the building
arising from the spread of fire or structural failure; “ commencement ” means
the time this section comes into force; “ the relevant period ” means the
period— beginning with the beginning of the carrying out of the works in
relation to which the relevant liability was incurred, and ending with the
making of the order; “ specified ” means specified in the building liability
order.

##### Building liability orders: associates

131

131.1

For the purposes of section 130, a body corporate (A) is associated with
another body corporate (B) if—

131.1.a

one of them controls the other, or

131.1.b

a third body corporate controls both of them.

Subsections  (2)  to  (4)  set out the cases in which a body corporate is
regarded as controlling another body corporate.

131.2

A body corporate (X) controls a company (Y) if X possesses or is entitled to
acquire—

131.2.a

at least half of the issued share capital of Y,

131.2.b

such rights as would entitle X to exercise at least half of the votes
exercisable in general meetings of Y,

131.2.c

such part of the issued share capital of Y as would entitle X to at least half
of the amount distributed, if the whole of the income of Y were in fact
distributed among the shareholders, or

131.2.d

such rights as would, in the event of the winding up of Y or in any other
circumstances, entitle it to receive at least half of the assets of Y which
would then be available for distribution among the shareholders.

131.3

A body corporate (X) controls a limited liability partnership (Y) if X—

131.3.a

holds a majority of the voting rights in Y,

131.3.b

is a member of Y and has a right to appoint or remove a majority of other
members, or

131.3.c

is a member of Y and controls alone, or pursuant to an agreement with other
members, a majority of the voting rights in Y.

131.4

A body corporate (X) controls another body corporate (Y) if X has the power,
directly or indirectly, to secure that the affairs of Y are conducted in
accordance with X’s wishes.

131.5

In subsection  (3)  a reference to “voting rights” is to the rights conferred
on members in respect of their interest in a limited liability partnership to
vote on those matters which are to be decided on by a vote of the members of
the limited liability partnership.

131.6

In determining under any of subsections  (2)  to  (4)  whether one body
corporate (X) controls another, X is treated as possessing—

131.6.a

any rights and powers possessed by a person as nominee for it, and

131.6.b

any rights and powers possessed by a body corporate which it controls
(including rights and powers which such a body corporate would be taken to
possess by virtue of this paragraph).

131.7

For the purposes of section 130 as it applies in relation to a building, where
a person’s interest in the building is held on trust, a body corporate which
is a beneficiary of the trust is to be regarded as associated with the person.

##### Order for information in connection with building liability order

132

132.1

A person of a prescribed description may apply to the High Court for an
information order.

132.2

An “information order” is an order requiring a specified body corporate to
give, by a specified time, specified information or documents relating to
persons who are, or have at any time in a specified period been, associated
with the body corporate.

132.3

An information order may be made only if it appears to the court—

132.3.a

that the body corporate is subject to a relevant liability (within the meaning
of section 130), and

132.3.b

that it is appropriate to require the information or documents to be provided
for the purpose of enabling the applicant (or the applicant and others) to
make, or consider whether to make, an application for a building liability
order.

132.4

In this section—

“ associate ”: section 131 applies for the purposes of this section as it
applies for the purposes of section 130; “ building liability order ”: see
section 130; “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by the
Secretary of State; “ specified ” means specified in the information order.

#### Remediation and redress: other provisions

##### Service charges in respect of remediation works

133

133.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 is amended as follows.

133.2

In section 20(1)(b) (limitation of service charges: consultation requirements)
at the beginning insert  “except in the case of works to which  section 20D
applies,” .

133.3

In section 20ZA (consultation requirements: supplementary) after subsection
(5) insert—

133.3.5A

And in the case of works to which  section 20D  applies, regulations under
subsection (4) may also include provision requiring the landlord—

133.3.5A.a

to give details of the steps taken or to be taken under  section 20D (2) ,

133.3.5A.b

to give reasons about prescribed matters, and any other prescribed
information, relating to the taking of such steps, and

133.3.5A.c

to have regard to observations made by tenants or the recognised tenants’
association in relation to the taking of such steps.

133.4

After section 20C insert—

########### Limitation of service charges: remediation works

133.4.20D

133.4.20D.1

This section applies to works of a prescribed description (“remediation
works”) on a building in England of a prescribed description.

133.4.20D.2

The landlord must—

133.4.20D.2.a

take reasonable steps to ascertain whether any grant is payable in respect of
the remediation works and, if so, to obtain the grant;

133.4.20D.2.b

take reasonable steps to ascertain whether monies may be obtained from a third
party in connection with the undertaking of the remediation works and, if so,
to obtain monies from the third party;

133.4.20D.2.c

take prescribed steps relating to any other prescribed kind of funding.

133.4.20D.3

In  subsection (2) (b)  the reference to obtaining monies from a third party
includes obtaining monies—

133.4.20D.3.a

under a policy of insurance;

133.4.20D.3.b

under a guarantee or indemnity;

133.4.20D.3.c

pursuant to a claim made against—

133.4.20D.3.c.i

a developer;

133.4.20D.3.c.ii

a person involved in the design of the building or of works to the building;
or

133.4.20D.3.c.iii

a person involved in carrying out works in relation to the building.

133.4.20D.4

Where any funding of a kind mentioned in  subsection (2)  is obtained, the
amount of the funding is to be deducted from the remediation costs (and the
amount of any service charge is to be reduced accordingly).

133.4.20D.5

In the case of a failure to comply with  subsection (2) , a tenant may make an
application for an order that all or any of remediation costs are not to be
regarded as relevant costs to be taken into account in determining the amount
of any service charge payable by—

133.4.20D.5.a

the tenant, or

133.4.20D.5.b

anyone else specified in the application.

133.4.20D.6

An application is to be made to the prescribed court or tribunal.

133.4.20D.7

The court or tribunal to which the application is made may make such order on
the application as it considers just and equitable in the circumstances.

133.4.20D.8

Nothing in this section requires the landlord to do anything mentioned in
subsection (2)  before carrying out remediation works.

133.4.20D.9

The Secretary of State may issue guidance about the taking of steps under
subsection (2) , and may revise or withdraw any issued guidance.

133.4.20D.10

Where on an application under this section it is alleged that a person failed
to comply with  subsection (2) —

133.4.20D.10.a

proof of a failure to comply with any applicable guidance may be relied on as
tending to establish that there was such a failure, and

133.4.20D.10.b

proof of compliance with any applicable guidance may be relied on as tending
to establish that there was no such failure.

133.4.20D.11

In this section—

“ developer ”, in relation to a building, means a person who undertakes or
commissions the construction or conversion of the building with a view to
granting or disposing of interests in the building (or parts of it); “
prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State; “
remediation costs ” means costs incurred or to be incurred in carrying out the
remediation works; “ third party ” means a person other than a tenant.

########### Regulations under 

133.4.20E

133.4.20E.1

In this section “ regulations ” means regulations under  section 20D .

133.4.20E.2

Regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

133.4.20E.3

A power to make regulations includes power to make—

133.4.20E.3.a

incidental, transitional or saving provision;

133.4.20E.3.b

different provision for different purposes.

133.4.20E.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Duties relating to work to dwellings etc

134

134.1

In the Defective Premises Act 1972 after section 2 insert—

########### Duties relating to work to dwellings etc

134.1.2A

134.1.2A.1

This section applies where a person, in the course of a business, takes on
work in relation to any part of a relevant building.

134.1.2A.2

In this section “ relevant building ” means a building consisting of or
containing one or more dwellings.

134.1.2A.3

The person owes a duty to—

134.1.2A.3.a

the person for whom the work is done, and

134.1.2A.3.b

each person who holds or acquires an interest (whether legal or equitable) in
a dwelling in the building,

to see that the work is done in a workmanlike or (as the case may be)
professional manner, with proper materials and so that as regards the work the
dwelling is fit for habitation when the work is completed.

134.1.2A.4

The duty under this section does not apply in relation to a dwelling if—

134.1.2A.4.a

the work taken on is work for or in connection with the provision of the
dwelling (as to which see section 1), or

134.1.2A.4.b

it is expected that, on completion of the work, it will have ceased to be a
dwelling or will otherwise have ceased to exist.

134.1.2A.5

A person (A) who takes on any work to which this section applies for another
(B) on terms that A is to do it in accordance with instructions given by or on
behalf of B is, to the extent to which A does it properly in accordance with
those instructions, to be treated for the purposes of this section as
discharging the duty imposed on A by this section except where A owes a duty
to B to warn B of any defects in the instructions and fails to discharge that
duty.

134.1.2A.6

A person is not treated for the purposes of  subsection (5)  as having given
instructions for the doing of work merely because the person has agreed to the
work being done in a specified manner, with specified materials or to a
specified design.

134.1.2A.7

A person who, in the course of a business which consists of or includes
carrying out or arranging for the carrying out of work of a kind mentioned in
subsection (1) , arranges for another to take on work of that kind is treated
for the purposes of this section as included among the persons who have taken
on the work.

134.1.2A.8

For the purposes of the Limitation Act 1980, a cause of action in respect of a
breach of a duty imposed by this section is treated as accruing at the time
the work is completed; but if after that time a person does further work to
rectify the work the person has already done, any such cause of action in
respect of that further work is treated as accruing at the time when the
further work is finished.

134.2

The amendment made by this section applies in relation to work completed after
the coming into force of this section.

##### Limitation periods

135

135.1

After section 4A of the Limitation Act 1980 insert—

########### Special time limit for certain actions in respect of damage or defects in relation to buildings

135.1.4B

135.1.4B.1

Where by virtue of a relevant provision a person becomes entitled to bring an
action against any other person, no action may be brought after the expiration
of 15 years from the date on which the right of action accrued.

135.1.4B.2

An action referred to in subsection (1) is one to which—

135.1.4B.2.a

sections 1, 28, 32, 35, 37 and 38 apply;

135.1.4B.2.b

the other provisions of this Act do not apply.

135.1.4B.3

In this section “ relevant provision ” means—

135.1.4B.3.a

section 1 or 2A of the Defective Premises Act 1972;

135.1.4B.3.b

section 38 of the Building Act 1984.

135.1.4B.4

Where by virtue of section 1 of the Defective Premises Act 1972 a person
became entitled, before the commencement date, to bring an action against any
other person, this section applies in relation to the action as if the
reference in subsection (1) to 15 years were a reference to 30 years.

135.1.4B.5

In subsection (4) “ the commencement date ” means the day on which section 135
of the Building Safety Act 2022 came into force.

135.2

In section 1(5) of the Defective Premises Act 1972, for “the Limitation Act
1939, the Law Reform (Limitation of Actions, &c.) Act 1954 and the Limitation
Act 1963” substitute  “the Limitation Act 1980” .

135.3

The amendment made by  subsection (1)  in relation to an action by virtue of
section 1 of the Defective Premises Act 1972 is to be treated as always having
been in force.

135.4

In a case where—

135.4.a

by virtue of section 1 of the Defective Premises Act 1972 a person became
entitled, before the day on which this section came into force, to bring an
action against any other person, and

135.4.b

the period of 30 years from the date on which the right of action accrued
expires in the initial period,

section 4B of the Limitation Act 1980 (inserted by subsection (1)) has effect
as if it provided that the action may not be brought after the end of the
initial period.

135.5

Where an action is brought that, but for  subsection (3) , would have been
barred by the Limitation Act 1980, a court hearing the action must dismiss it
in relation to any defendant if satisfied that it is necessary to do so to
avoid a breach of that defendant’s Convention rights.

135.6

Nothing in this section applies in relation to a claim which, before this
section came into force, was settled by agreement between the parties or
finally determined by a court or arbitration (whether on the basis of
limitation or otherwise).

135.7

In this section—

“ Convention rights ” has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act 1998; “
the initial period ” means the period of one year beginning with the day on
which this section comes into force.

#### New homes ombudsman scheme

##### Establishment of the new homes ombudsman scheme

136

136.1

The Secretary of State must make arrangements for there to be a scheme, to be
known as the “new homes ombudsman scheme”, which meets the conditions in
section 137 (1) .

136.2

Examples of arrangements under  subsection (1)  are arrangements—

136.2.a

with another person under which that other person agrees to establish and
maintain the new homes ombudsman scheme in accordance with the terms of the
arrangements,

136.2.b

under which the new homes ombudsman scheme is established and maintained by
(or on behalf of) the Secretary of State, or

136.2.c

for the maintenance of the new homes ombudsman scheme, in accordance with the
terms of the arrangements, by a person other than the person who established
it.

136.3

The Secretary of State may—

136.3.a

give financial assistance (by way of grant, loan, guarantee or in any other
form) to a person for the establishment or maintenance of the new homes
ombudsman scheme;

136.3.b

make payments to such a person (otherwise than as financial assistance) in
accordance with arrangements under  subsection (1) .

136.4

Before making arrangements under subsection (1), the Secretary of State must
consult—

136.4.a

the Welsh Ministers,

136.4.b

the Scottish Ministers, and

136.4.c

the relevant Northern Ireland department.

136.5

In this section, “ the relevant Northern Ireland department ” means—

136.5.a

the Northern Ireland department designated for the purposes of this section by
the First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly, or

136.5.b

failing such a designation, the Executive Office in Northern Ireland.

##### The new homes ombudsman scheme

137

137.1

The conditions referred to in section 136 (1)  are that—

137.1.a

membership of the scheme is open to all developers,

137.1.b

the scheme enables qualifying complainants to have complaints against members
of the scheme investigated and determined by an independent individual, and

137.1.c

the scheme contains the provisions required by  Schedule 9 .

137.2

A “qualifying complainant” is a person who, at the time the complaint is made,
is a relevant owner of a home which, at that time, is a new build home.

137.3

The individual who is to investigate and determine complaints under the scheme
is to be known as “ the new homes ombudsman ”.

137.4

The scheme may also include provision for persons other than qualifying
complainants to have complaints against members of the scheme investigated and
determined under the scheme.

137.5

The scheme may provide that the new homes ombudsman is not required to
investigate a complaint if the new homes ombudsman is satisfied that the
complaint (or a complaint which is materially the same) is being, or has been,
dealt with under another redress scheme or in legal proceedings.

137.6

In this section, “ redress scheme ” means a scheme under which complaints may
be made to, and investigated and determined by, an independent person.

137.7

Schedule 9  contains further provision about the new homes ombudsman scheme.

137.8

Schedule 10  contains amendments connected with the establishment of the new
homes ombudsman scheme.

##### “Relevant owner”, “new build home” and “developer”

138

138.1

This section provides for the meaning of terms used in section 137 (and in
this section).

138.2

A person is a “relevant owner” of a home if the person—

138.2.a

is an individual,

138.2.b

has a relevant interest in land that includes the home, and

138.2.c

meets the occupation condition.

138.3

A person meets the occupation condition if the person—

138.3.a

occupies the home, or

138.3.b

is the landlord under a lease of land that includes the home granted for a
term not exceeding 21 years to another individual for that individual’s
occupation of the home.

138.4

In relation to a home in Scotland or Northern Ireland, subsection (3) has
effect as if in paragraph (b) the words “for a term not exceeding 21 years”
were omitted.

138.5

A home is a “new build home” if—

138.5.a

the home is, or is contained in—

138.5.a.i

a building the construction of which began after the coming into force of this
section, or

138.5.a.ii

a building that has been converted, or to which any other works have been
carried out, so that it consists of or contains the home, where the conversion
or works began after the coming into force of this section,

138.5.b

there is a person who is, or was, a developer in relation to the home, and

138.5.c

no more than two years have elapsed since the first acquisition, by any
person, of a relevant interest in land that includes the home from the person
mentioned in  paragraph (b) .

138.6

“ Relevant interest ” means—

138.6.a

in relation to land in England or Wales, a legal estate which is—

138.6.a.i

an estate in fee simple absolute in possession, or

138.6.a.ii

a term of years absolute granted for a term of more than 21 years from the
date of the grant;

138.6.b

in relation to land in Scotland, the interest of an owner of land;

138.6.c

in relation to land in Northern Ireland, a legal estate which is—

138.6.c.i

an estate in fee simple absolute in possession,

138.6.c.ii

an estate in fee simple in possession subject to a rent payable under a fee
farm grant, or

138.6.c.iii

a term of years absolute granted for a term of more than 21 years from the
date of the grant.

138.7

A “developer” is a person—

138.7.a

who undertakes or commissions—

138.7.a.i

the construction of a new building that is to consist of or contain a home,

138.7.a.ii

the conversion of, or carrying out of any other works to, an existing building
so that it consists of or contains a home, or

138.7.a.iii

the conversion of, or carrying out of any other works to, an existing building
so as to alter the number of homes contained in it,

with a view to granting, or disposing of, a relevant interest in land that
includes the home or, in a case falling within  sub-paragraph (iii) , any of
the homes, or

138.7.b

who is of a description specified in regulations made by the relevant national
authority.

138.8

Regulations under  subsection (7) (b)  may, among other things, specify a
description of persons by reference to a connection with a person mentioned in
subsection (7) (a) .

138.9

In  subsection (7) (b) , “ the relevant national authority ” means—

138.9.a

in relation to homes in England, the Secretary of State,

138.9.b

in relation to homes in Wales, the Welsh Ministers,

138.9.c

in relation to homes in Scotland, the Scottish Ministers, and

138.9.d

in relation to homes in Northern Ireland, the Northern Ireland department
designated for the purposes of this section by the First Minister and deputy
First Minister acting jointly.

138.10

Before making regulations under  subsection (7) (b) , the relevant national
authority must consult each other person who is the relevant national
authority in relation to regulations under that subsection.

138.11

If no Northern Ireland department has been designated for the purposes of this
section then, for the purposes of subsection  (10) , “ the relevant national
authority ” in relation to homes in Northern Ireland is the Executive Office
in Northern Ireland.

138.12

“ Home ” means a private residence.

138.13

“ Occupies ” means occupies as a private residence (and “ occupation ” is to
be construed accordingly).

##### Regulations under section 138

139

139.1

The power to make regulations under section 138(7) (b)  is exercisable—

139.1.a

in the case of regulations made by the Secretary of State or the Welsh
Ministers, by statutory instrument, and

139.1.b

in the case of regulations made by a Northern Ireland department, by statutory
rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (
S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12)) .

(For regulations under section 138(7) (b)  made by the Scottish Ministers, see
section 27 of the  Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
(asp 10) ).

139.2

Regulations under section 138(7) (b) —

139.2.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

139.2.b

may contain consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving
provision.

139.3

Regulations under section 138(7) (b) —

139.3.a

if made by the Secretary of State, may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, each House of Parliament;

139.3.b

if made by the Welsh Ministers, may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, Senedd Cymru;

139.3.c

if made by the Scottish Ministers, are subject to the affirmative procedure
(see section 29 of the  Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (asp 10) );

139.3.d

if made by a Northern Ireland department, may not be made unless a draft of
the regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the
Northern Ireland Assembly.

##### Power to require persons to join scheme and to provide information

140

140.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

140.1.a

require persons who are developers, or developers of a specified description,
to become members of the new homes ombudsman scheme;

140.1.b

require persons who are required to become members of the scheme under
paragraph (a)  to remain members of the scheme for a period specified in the
regulations (even if they are no longer developers);

140.1.c

require members of the scheme to inform persons of a specified description of
the scheme;

140.1.d

make provision for civil sanctions to be imposed in respect of a breach of a
requirement imposed by regulations under  paragraph (a) ,  (b)  or  (c) ;

140.1.e

make provision for the investigation of suspected breaches of such a
requirement.

In  this subsection , “ developer ” has the meaning given in section 138 and “
specified ” means specified in the regulations.

140.2

Before making regulations under subsection (1), the Secretary of State must
consult—

140.2.a

the Welsh Ministers,

140.2.b

the Scottish Ministers, and

140.2.c

the relevant Northern Ireland department.

140.3

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  may provide for exceptions to
the requirement to become a member of the scheme.

140.4

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b)  may require persons
who are members of the new homes ombudsman scheme to—

140.4.a

obtain a certificate confirming their membership of the scheme;

140.4.b

display or publish the certificate in accordance with the regulations;

140.4.c

produce a copy of the certificate, on request, in accordance with the
regulations.

140.5

Provision made for the imposition of a civil sanction by virtue of  subsection
(1) (d)  must include—

140.5.a

provision for appeals to a court or tribunal against the imposition of the
sanction, and

140.5.b

such other provision as the Secretary of State considers appropriate for
safeguarding the interests of persons on whom the sanction may be imposed.

140.6

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (1) (d)  or  (e)  may—

140.6.a

confer functions on a person (including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion);

140.6.b

require a person on whom functions are so conferred to have regard to any
relevant guidance issued by the Secretary of State relating to the exercise of
those functions.

140.7

The Secretary of State may make payments to a person on whom functions are
conferred by virtue of  subsection (6) .

140.8

In this section, “ the relevant Northern Ireland department ” means—

140.8.a

the Northern Ireland department designated for the purposes of this section by
the First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly, or

140.8.b

failing such a designation, the Executive Office in Northern Ireland.

##### Register of members

141

141.1

The person who maintains the new homes ombudsman scheme must keep a register
of persons who are members of the scheme.

141.2

The register must be made available for inspection by members of the public at
all reasonable times.

##### Developers’ code of practice

142

142.1

The Secretary of State may issue or approve a code of practice about the
standards of conduct and standards of quality of work expected of members of
the new homes ombudsman scheme.

142.2

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise or replace the code or
approve its revision or replacement.

142.3

The Secretary of State must ensure that the current version of the code is
published.

142.4

The Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers, the Scottish
Ministers and the relevant Northern Ireland department before—

142.4.a

issuing, revising or replacing the code, or

142.4.b

approving the code or a revision or replacement of it.

142.5

In this section, “ the relevant Northern Ireland department ” means—

142.5.a

the Northern Ireland department designated for the purposes of this section by
the First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly, or

142.5.b

failing such a designation, the Executive Office in Northern Ireland.

##### Amendment of the Government of Wales Act 2006

143

In Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006 (general restrictions on
legislative competence of Senedd Cymru), in paragraph 10(2), at the end
insert—

143.o

the new homes ombudsman.

#### New build home warranties

##### New build home warranties

144

144.1

This section applies where a person (“the developer”) carries out a
development in England that results in the creation of one or more dwellings
(“new build homes”).

144.2

The developer must, at the time of or before granting or disposing of a
relevant interest in a new build home—

144.2.a

provide to the purchaser a new build home warranty for the new build home, and

144.2.b

provide to a prescribed person a new build home warranty for any common parts.

144.3

A “new build home warranty” for a thing is an arrangement, satisfying any
requirements under subsection (4), under which—

144.3.a

the developer agrees, in specified circumstances, to remedy any specified
defect (or any defect) in the thing occurring in a specified period, and

144.3.b

a prescribed person obtains the benefit of a policy of insurance relating to
specified defects (or any defects) in the thing.

“Specified” here means specified in the arrangement.

144.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations impose requirements about new build
home warranties, including in particular requirements as to—

144.4.a

the kinds of defect which the developer must agree to remedy;

144.4.b

the circumstances in which the developer must agree to remedy a defect
(including the minimum duration of the period mentioned in subsection  (3) (a)
);

144.4.c

the developer agreeing to meet prescribed costs incurred by a person occupying
a new build home, where works to remedy a defect are carried out;

144.4.d

the policy of insurance (including risks that must be covered, the minimum
amount of cover, the minimum duration of the period of cover, and the maximum
amount of any excess);

144.4.e

the solvency of the insurer or underwriter;

144.4.f

the standard of service provided by or on behalf of the insurer in relation to
the policy;

144.4.g

the ability of a person who has the benefit of the warranty to transfer that
benefit to another person.

144.5

The regulations must provide that the period of cover under the policy of
insurance must be at least 15 years beginning with the day on which the
relevant interest is granted or disposed of.

144.6

In this section—

“ carries out a development ”: the reference to a person carrying out a
development is to undertaking or commissioning— the construction of a
building, or the conversion of, or carrying out of any other works to, a
building, with a view to granting, or disposing of, relevant interests in one
or more dwellings created as a result of the construction, conversion or
carrying out of works; “ common parts ”, in relation to a new build home,
means any part of a building, where— that part is provided for the use,
benefit and enjoyment of the residents of the new build home and the residents
of other dwellings (whether alone or with other persons), and the right to use
that part is conferred in connection with the grant or disposal of the
relevant interest in the new build home; “ defect ”: any reference to a defect
includes, in relation to land, contamination; “ prescribed ” means prescribed
by regulations made by the Secretary of State; “ purchaser ” means the person
to whom the relevant interest is granted or disposed of; “ relevant interest ”
means a legal estate which is— an estate in fee simple absolute in possession,
or a term of years absolute granted for a term of more than 21 years from the
date of the grant.

##### New build home warranties: financial penalties

145

145.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with the imposition of a financial penalty in cases where the Secretary of
State, or a person designated by the Secretary of State, is satisfied beyond
reasonable doubt that a person has, without reasonable excuse, failed to
comply with section 144 (2) .

145.2

The regulations may include provision—

145.2.a

about the procedure to be followed in imposing penalties;

145.2.b

about the amount of penalties;

145.2.c

for the imposition of interest or additional penalties for late payment;

145.2.d

conferring rights of appeal against penalties.

145.3

The regulations must provide that the amount of a financial penalty (excluding
interest or any additional penalty) may not exceed the greater of—

145.3.a

10% of the value of the relevant interest at the time the person granted or
disposed of the relevant interest, and

145.3.b

£10,000.

#### Construction products

##### Construction products

146

Schedule 11  contains provision for regulations relating to construction
products.

#### Liability relating to construction products

##### Liability relating to construction products: general definitions

147

In this section, section 148 and section 149—

“ the 1991 Regulations ” means the Construction Products Regulations 1991 (
S.I. 1991/1620 ); “ the 2011 Regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) No. 305/2011
(regulation laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of
construction products); “ the 2019 Regulations ” means the Construction
Products (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/465 ); “
construction products regulations ” means regulations under paragraph  1  of
Schedule 11 ; “ construction product requirement ” means a requirement under—
construction products regulations, the 2011 Regulation, or the 2019
Regulations; “ relevant building ” means— a building which consists of a
dwelling, or a building which contains two or more dwellings; “ relevant
interest ”, in relation to a building in England and Wales, means— in a case
where the building consists of a dwelling, a legal or equitable interest in
the building, and in a case where the building contains one or more dwellings,
a legal or equitable interest in— the building, or any dwelling contained in
the building; “ relevant interest ”, in relation to a building in Scotland,
means— in a case where the building consists of a dwelling, any right or
interest (including a servitude or heritable security) in or over the
building, and in a case where the building contains one or more dwellings, any
right or interest (including a servitude or heritable security) in or over—
the building, or any dwelling contained in the building; “ requirement ”
includes a prohibition or restriction.

##### Liability relating to construction products

148

148.1

This section applies where Conditions A to D are met.

148.2

Condition A is that, at any time after the coming into force of this section—

148.2.a

a person fails to comply with a construction product requirement in relation
to a construction product,

148.2.b

a person who markets or supplies a construction product makes a misleading
statement in relation to it, or

148.2.c

a person manufactures a construction product that is inherently defective.

148.3

Condition B is that, after Condition A is met, the construction product
referred to in subsection  (2) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  is installed in, or
applied or attached to, a relevant building in the course of works carried out
in the construction of, or otherwise in relation to, the building.

148.4

Condition C is that, when those works are completed—

148.4.a

in a case where the relevant building consists of a dwelling, the building is
unfit for habitation, or

148.4.b

in a case where the relevant building contains one or more dwellings, a
dwelling contained in the building is unfit for habitation.

148.5

Condition D is that the facts referred to in subsection  (2) (a) ,  (b)  or
(c)  were the cause, or one of the causes, of the building or dwelling being
unfit for habitation.

148.6

The person referred to in subsection  (2) (a) ,  (b)  or  (c)  is liable to
pay damages to a person with a relevant interest in relation to the relevant
building for personal injury, damage to property or economic loss suffered by
that person as a result of the facts referred to in subsection  (4) (a)  or
(b) .

148.7

A term of an agreement which purports to exclude or restrict, or has the
effect of excluding or restricting, any liability arising under this section
is void.

148.8

For the purposes of section 10B(1) of the Limitation Act 1980 and section
18ZD(1) of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973, the right of
action that a person has by virtue of this section is to be regarded as having
accrued—

148.8.a

in a case where the works referred to in subsection  (3)  are carried out in
the construction of the relevant building, when the construction is completed,
and

148.8.b

in any other case, when the works are completed.

148.9

In subsection  (2) (a)  “construction product”—

148.9.a

in relation to a construction product requirement under construction products
regulations, has the meaning specified in those regulations;

148.9.b

in relation to a construction product requirement under the 2011 Regulation,
has the meaning specified in the 2011 Regulation;

148.9.c

in relation to a construction product requirement under the 2019 Regulations,
has the meaning specified in the 2011 Regulation as it had effect immediately
before IP completion day.

148.10

In subsection  (2) (b)  and  (c)  “ construction product ” has the meaning
specified in the 2011 Regulation.

##### Liability for past defaults relating to cladding products

149

149.1

This section applies where Conditions A to D are met.

149.2

Condition A is that, at any time before the coming into force of this section—

149.2.a

a person fails to comply with a cladding product requirement in relation to a
cladding product,

149.2.b

a person who markets or supplies a cladding product makes a misleading
statement in relation to it, or

149.2.c

a person manufactures a cladding product that is inherently defective.

149.3

Condition B is that, after Condition A has been met, the cladding product is
attached to, or included in, the external wall of a relevant building in the
course of works carried out in the construction of, or otherwise in relation
to, the building.

149.4

Condition C is that, when those works are completed—

149.4.a

in a case where the relevant building consists of a dwelling, the building is
unfit for habitation, or

149.4.b

in a case where the relevant building contains one or more dwellings, a
dwelling contained in the building is unfit for habitation.

149.5

Condition D is that the facts referred to in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c)
were the cause, or one of the causes, of the building or dwelling being unfit
for habitation.

149.6

The person referred to in subsection (2)(a), (b) or (c) is liable to pay
damages to a person with a relevant interest in relation to the relevant
building for personal injury, damage to property or economic loss suffered by
that person as a result of the facts referred to in subsection (4)(a) or (b).

149.7

A term of an agreement which purports to exclude or restrict, or has the
effect of excluding or restricting, any liability arising under this section
is void.

149.8

For the purposes of section 10B(2) of the Limitation Act 1980 and section
18ZD(2) of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973, the right of
action that a person has by virtue of this section is to be regarded as having
accrued—

149.8.a

in a case where the works referred to in subsection (3) are carried out in the
construction of the relevant building, when the construction is completed, and

149.8.b

in any other case, when the works are completed.

149.9

Where an action is brought under this section in England and Wales that, but
for section 10B(2) of the Limitation Act 1980, would have been barred by that
Act, a court hearing the action must dismiss it in relation to any defendant
if satisfied that it is necessary to do so to avoid a breach of that
defendant’s Convention rights.

149.10

Where an action is brought under this section in Scotland that, but for
section 18ZD(2) of the Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973, would
have been barred by that Act, a court hearing the action must dismiss it in
relation to any defender if satisfied that it is necessary to do so to avoid a
breach of that defender’s Convention rights.

149.11

In this section “ cladding product requirement ” means—

149.11.a

in relation to a time before IP completion day, a requirement relating to a
cladding product under—

149.11.a.i

the 1991 Regulations, or

149.11.a.ii

the 2011 Regulation as it had effect in EU law at that time, and

149.11.b

in relation to a time after IP completion day, a requirement relating to a
cladding product under—

149.11.b.i

the 2011 Regulation, or

149.11.b.ii

the 2019 Regulations.

149.12

In this section—

“ cladding product ” means a cladding system or any component of a cladding
system; “ Convention rights ” has the same meaning as in the Human Rights Act
1998; “ external wall ”, in relation to a building, includes any part of a
roof pitched at an angle of more than 70 degrees to the horizontal if that
part of the roof adjoins a space within the building to which persons have
access otherwise than for the purpose of carrying out repairs or maintenance.

##### Liability relating to construction products: limitation in England and Wales

150

In the Limitation Act 1980, after section 10A insert—

######### Special time limit for actions relating to construction products

150.10B

150.10B.1

An action under section 148 of the Building Safety Act 2022 shall not be
brought after the expiration of 15 years from the date on which the right of
action accrued.

150.10B.2

An action under section 149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 shall not be
brought after—

150.10B.2.a

if the right of action accrued before the commencement date, the expiration of
the period of 30 years from the date on which it accrued, and

150.10B.2.b

if the right of action accrued on or after the commencement date, the
expiration of the period of 15 years beginning with the date on which it
accrued.

150.10B.3

In a case where—

150.10B.3.a

a right of action under section 149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 accrued
before the commencement date, and

150.10B.3.b

the expiration of the period of 30 years beginning with the date on which the
right of action accrued falls in the year beginning with the commencement
date,

subsection (2)(a) has effect as if it referred to the expiration of that year.

150.10B.4

In subsections (2) and (3) “the commencement date” is the day on which section
149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 came into force.

150.10B.5

No other period of limitation prescribed by Part 1 of this Act applies in
relation to an action referred to in subsections (1) and (2).

150.10B.6

Sections 28, 32 and 35 of this Act apply in relation to an action referred to
subsections (1) and (2), but otherwise Parts 2 and 3 of this Act (except
sections 37 and 38) do not apply for the purposes of this section.

##### Liability relating to construction products: limitation in Scotland

151

151.1

The Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973 is amended as follows.

151.2

After section 18ZC insert—

########### Actions relating to construction products

151.2.18ZD

151.2.18ZD.1

An action under section 148 of the Building Safety Act 2022 may not be brought
after the expiration of 15 years from the date on which the right of action
accrued (see subsection (8) of that section).

151.2.18ZD.2

An action under section 149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 may not be brought
after—

151.2.18ZD.2.a

if the right of action accrued before the commencement date, the expiration of
the period of 30 years from the date on which it accrued (see subsection (8)
of that section), and

151.2.18ZD.2.b

if the right of action accrued on or after the commencement date, the
expiration of the period of 15 years beginning with the date on which it
accrued.

151.2.18ZD.3

In a case where—

151.2.18ZD.3.a

a right of action under section 149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 accrued
before the commencement date, and

151.2.18ZD.3.b

the expiration of the period of 30 years beginning with the date on which the
right of action accrued falls in the year beginning with the commencement
date,

subsection (2)(a) has effect as if it referred to the expiration of that year.

151.2.18ZD.4

In subsections (2) and (3) “the commencement date” is the day on which section
149 of the Building Safety Act 2022 came into force.

151.2.18ZD.5

No other period of limitation specified by this Part of this Act applies in
relation to an action referred to in subsection (1) or (2).

151.2.18ZD.6

In the computation of a period of time specified in subsection (1) or (2),
there is to be disregarded any time during which the person seeking to bring
the action (P)—

151.2.18ZD.6.a

was under a legal disability by reason of nonage or unsoundness of mind, or

151.2.18ZD.6.b

failed to bring the action by reason of—

151.2.18ZD.6.b.i

fraud on the part of the person against whom the action is to be brought (D)
or the part of any person acting on D’s behalf, or

151.2.18ZD.6.b.ii

error induced by words or conduct of D or any person acting on D’s behalf,

(but not including, for the purposes of paragraph (b), any time occurring
after P could with reasonable diligence have discovered the fraud or error
mentioned in that paragraph).

151.2.18ZD.7

For the purposes of subsection (6)(b), it does not matter whether D, or the
person acting on D’s behalf, intended the fraud or the words or conduct to
cause P to fail to bring the action.

151.3

In section 7(2) (extinction of obligations by prescriptive periods of twenty
years), at the end insert  “or any obligation to pay damages arising from
liability under section 148 or section 149 of the Building Safety Act 2022
(see section  18ZD  of this Act).”

151.4

In section 19CA(1) (interruption of limitation period: arbitration), after
“18ZC(2)” insert  “,  18ZD (1)  or  (2) ” .

151.5

In Schedule 1, in paragraph 2 (exceptions from the 5 year prescriptive period
under section 6), after paragraph (ga) insert—

151.5.gb

to any obligation to pay damages arising from liability under section 148 or
149 of the Building Safety Act 2022;”.

#### Construction products: costs contribution orders

##### Costs contribution orders: general definitions

152

In this section and sections 153 to 155—

“ the 2011 Regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) No. 305/2011  (regulation
laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products);
“ the 2019 Regulations ” means the Construction Products (Amendment etc.) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/465 ); “ the 2020 Regulations ” means the
Construction Products (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I.
2020/1359 ); “ construction product ”— in relation to a construction product
requirement under construction products regulations, has the meaning specified
in those regulations; in relation to a construction product requirement under
the 2011 Regulation, has the meaning specified in the 2011 Regulation (or, in
Northern Ireland, in the 2011 Regulation as having effect in EU law from time
to time); in relation to a construction product requirement under the 2019
Regulations, has the meaning specified in the 2011 Regulation as it had effect
immediately before IP completion day; in relation to a construction product
requirement under the 2020 Regulations, has the meaning given by regulation 2
of those Regulations; “ construction products regulations ” means regulations
under paragraph 1 of  Schedule 11 ; “ construction product requirement ”, in
England and Wales or Scotland, means a requirement under— construction
products regulations, the 2011 Regulation, or the 2019 Regulations; “
construction product requirement ”, in Northern Ireland, means a requirement
under— construction product regulations, the 2011 Regulation as having effect
from time to time in EU law, the 2019 Regulations, or the 2020 Regulations;
references to an “interest” in a building or dwelling include— in England and
Wales, any legal or equitable interest in the building or dwelling; in
Scotland, any right or interest (including a servitude or heritable security)
in or over the building or dwelling; in Northern Ireland, any estate within
the meaning given by section 45(2) of the Interpretation Act (Northern
Ireland) 1954 in the building or dwelling; “ relevant building ” means— a
building which consists of a dwelling, or a building which contains two or
more dwellings; “ requirement ” includes a prohibition or restriction.

##### Costs contribution orders made by courts

153

153.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for courts to make
costs contribution orders on the application of the Secretary of State.

153.2

The regulations may only make provision for the making of costs contribution
orders under this section in cases where—

153.2.a

Conditions A to D are met, and

153.2.b

any prescribed conditions are met.

153.3

Condition A is that a person (“ the defaulter ”) is convicted of an offence
consisting of a failure to comply with a construction product requirement in
relation to a construction product.

153.4

Condition B is that, after the failure to comply referred to in subsection
(3), the construction product is installed in, or applied or attached to, a
relevant building in the course of works carried out in the construction of,
or otherwise in relation to, the building.

153.5

Condition C is that, when those works are completed—

153.5.a

in a case where the relevant building consists of a dwelling, the building is
unfit for habitation, or

153.5.b

in a case where the relevant building contains one or more dwellings, a
dwelling contained in the building is unfit for habitation.

153.6

Condition D is that the failure to comply referred to in subsection (3) was
the cause, or one of the causes, of the building or dwelling being unfit for
habitation.

153.7

A “costs contribution order” under this section is an order requiring the
defaulter to pay an amount to a person with a prescribed interest in the
building or any dwelling contained in the building.

153.8

Regulations under this section must provide for the amount to be paid to a
person under a costs contribution order under this section to be such amount
as the court making the order considers just and equitable in respect of the
costs that the person has reasonably incurred, or in the view of the court is
likely to reasonably incur, in respect of works to make the building or
dwelling fit for habitation.

153.9

The regulations may make provision as to the matters which may or must be
taken into account by a court in determining—

153.9.a

whether, against whom and in favour of whom to make a costs contribution order
under this section;

153.9.b

the amount required to be paid by a person under a costs contribution order
under this section.

153.10

The regulations may make provision in relation to—

153.10.a

enforcement of a costs contribution order under this section;

153.10.b

court powers to order the defaulter to pay—

153.10.b.i

any costs incurred by the Secretary of State under regulations under section
155 (assessments) in respect of the application, and

153.10.b.ii

any costs incurred by the Secretary of State in making the application.

153.11

The regulations may make provision about how a costs contribution order under
this section relates to other remedies, including in particular—

153.11.a

provision to secure that, taking a costs contribution order under this section
together with other remedies—

153.11.a.i

a person does not incur liability more than once in respect of the same costs;

153.11.a.ii

a person is not entitled to be reimbursed more than once for the same costs;

153.11.b

provision preventing a person to whom any amount is payable under a costs
contribution order under this section from pursuing any other legal remedy for
the recovery of such an amount.

153.12

In this section “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations under this
section.

##### Costs contribution orders made by the Secretary of State

154

154.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the Secretary of
State to make costs contribution orders.

154.2

The regulations may only make provision for the making of costs contribution
orders in cases where—

154.2.a

Conditions A to D are met, and

154.2.b

any prescribed conditions are met.

154.3

Condition A is that a person (“ the defaulter ”) is convicted of an offence
consisting of a failure to comply with a construction product requirement in
relation to a construction product.

154.4

Condition B is that, after the failure to comply referred to in subsection
(3), the construction product is installed in, or applied or attached to, a
relevant building in the course of works carried out in the construction of,
or otherwise in relation to, the building.

154.5

Condition C is that, when those works are completed—

154.5.a

in a case where the relevant building consists of a dwelling, the building is
unfit for habitation, or

154.5.b

in a case where the relevant building contains one or more dwellings, a
dwelling contained in the building is unfit for habitation.

154.6

Condition D is that the failure to comply referred to in subsection (3) was
the cause, or one of the causes, of the building or dwelling being unfit for
habitation.

154.7

A “costs contribution order” under this section is an order requiring the
defaulter to make a payment to a person with a prescribed interest in the
building or any dwelling contained in the building.

154.8

Regulations under this section must provide for the amount to be paid to a
person under a costs contribution order under this section to be such amount
as the Secretary of State considers just and equitable in respect of the costs
that the person has reasonably incurred, or in the view of the Secretary of
State is likely to reasonably incur, in respect of works to make the building
or dwelling fit for habitation.

154.9

The regulations may make provision as to the matters which may or must be
taken into account by the Secretary of State in determining—

154.9.a

whether, against whom, and in favour of whom, to make a costs contribution
order under this section;

154.9.b

the amount required to be paid by a person under a costs contribution order
under this section.

154.10

The regulations may make provision for the Secretary of State to issue a
warning notice to a person before determining whether to make a costs
contribution order under this section against that person.

154.11

The regulations may make provision requiring that a costs contribution order
under this section—

154.11.a

be made in a prescribed form;

154.11.b

contain prescribed information.

154.12

The regulations may make provision about service of a costs contribution order
under this section including—

154.12.a

how an order is to be served;

154.12.b

when an order is to be taken as having been served;

154.12.c

the persons on whom an order must be served.

154.13

The regulations may make provision in relation to—

154.13.a

enforcement of a costs contribution order made under this section (including
enforcement by the Secretary of State);

154.13.b

powers of the Secretary of State to order the defaulter to pay any costs
incurred by the Secretary of State under section 155 in respect of a costs
contribution order under this section.

154.14

The regulations may make provision about how a costs contribution order under
this section relates to other remedies, including in particular—

154.14.a

provision to secure that, taking a costs contribution order under this section
together with other remedies—

154.14.a.i

a person does not incur liability more than once in respect of the same costs;

154.14.a.ii

a person is not entitled to be reimbursed more than once for the same costs;

154.14.b

provision preventing a person to whom any amount is payable under a costs
contribution order under this section from pursuing any other legal remedy for
the recovery of such an amount.

154.15

The regulations may make provision for persons to apply to the Secretary of
State for a review of a costs contribution order under this section.

154.16

The regulations may make provision for appeals to a court or tribunal in
relation to—

154.16.a

a decision of the Secretary of State to make or not make a costs contribution
order under this section;

154.16.b

a refusal by the Secretary of State to review a costs contribution order under
this section;

154.16.c

the outcome of a review by the Secretary of State of a costs contribution
order under this section.

154.17

The regulations may in particular include provision suspending a requirement
to pay an amount due under a costs contribution order under this section
pending the determination or withdrawal of an appeal or the determination of a
review.

154.18

In this section “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations under this
section.

##### Costs contribution orders: assessments

155

155.1

For the purposes of sections 153 and 154, the Secretary of State may by
regulations make provision for the Secretary of State to appoint persons to
assess—

155.1.a

whether the conditions for the imposition of a costs contribution order under
either of those sections are met;

155.1.b

the works required to make a building or dwelling fit for habitation;

155.1.c

what interest a person has in a building or dwelling;

155.1.d

the costs that a person has reasonably incurred or is likely to reasonably
incur in respect of works referred to in paragraph (b);

155.1.e

the amount that a person should be required to pay under a costs contribution
order.

155.2

The regulations may include provision about the criteria to be met by a person
before they may be appointed as an assessor.

155.3

The regulations may make provision about assessments, including provision—

155.3.a

conferring power on an assessor to require that persons provide such
information as the assessor may reasonably require for the purposes of an
assessment;

155.3.b

for the provision of information by an assessor to the Secretary of State
(including any information provided under paragraph (a)).

155.4

Regulations under subsection (3)(a) may include provision for criminal
offences relating to a failure to provide information, or to the provision of
false or misleading information.

155.5

Regulations under subsection (3)(a) creating a criminal offence must have the
effect that—

155.5.a

the offence is—

155.5.a.i

triable summarily only, or

155.5.a.ii

triable summarily or on indictment,

155.5.b

the offence is punishable only—

155.5.b.i

with a fine, or

155.5.b.ii

with a term of imprisonment or a fine (or both),

155.5.c

where the offence is triable summarily only, any fine with which the offence
is punishable in Scotland or Northern Ireland does not exceed level 5 on the
standard scale,

155.5.d

where the offence is triable summarily or on indictment, any fine with which
the offence is punishable on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern
Ireland does not exceed the statutory maximum, and

155.5.e

any term of imprisonment with which the offence is punishable on summary
conviction does not exceed—

155.5.e.i

in England and Wales, the relevant period,

155.5.e.ii

in Scotland, 12 months, and

155.5.e.iii

in Northern Ireland, 6 months.

155.6

In subsection (5)(e)(i), “ the relevant period ” means—

155.6.a

in relation to an offence that is triable summarily only—

155.6.a.i

where the offence is committed before the coming into force of section 281 of
the Criminal Justice Act 2003, 6 months, and

155.6.a.ii

where the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks;

155.6.b

in relation to an offence that is triable summarily or on indictment—

155.6.b.i

where the offence is committed before the coming into force of paragraph 24(2)
of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020, 6 months, and

155.6.b.ii

where the offence is committed after that time, 12 months.

155.7

Regulations under subsection (3)(b) may make provision for the purpose of
securing that there is (taking into account any power or duty to provide
information under the regulations) no contravention of the data protection
legislation.

155.8

In subsection (7), “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in
the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

#### Fire safety

##### Amendment of Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005

156

156.1

The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 ( S.I. 2005/1541 ) is amended
as follows.

156.2

In article 5 (duties under the Order), for “22”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “22B” .

156.3

In article 9 (risk assessment)—

156.3.a

in paragraph (6) for the words from “record” to the end substitute  “make a
record of the assessment or review, which must in particular include the
information prescribed by paragraph (7).” ;

156.3.b

in paragraph (7)(a) omit “significant”.

156.4

After article 9 insert—

########### Risk assessment: assistance

156.4.9A

156.4.9A.1

The responsible person must not appoint a person to assist them with making or
reviewing an assessment under article 9 unless that person is competent.

156.4.9A.2

A person is to be regarded as competent for the purposes of this article where
the person has sufficient training and experience or knowledge and other
qualities to enable the person properly to assist in making or reviewing the
assessment.

156.4.9A.3

Where the responsible person appoints more than one person, the responsible
person must make arrangements for ensuring adequate co-operation between them.

156.5

In article 11(2) (fire safety arrangements) omit the words from “where” to the
end.

156.6

After article 21 insert—

########### Provision of information to residents of domestic premises

156.6.21A

156.6.21A.1

This article applies in relation to a building containing two or more sets of
domestic premises.

156.6.21A.2

The responsible person must give residents of the domestic premises
comprehensible and relevant information about the relevant fire safety
matters.

156.6.21A.3

The relevant fire safety matters are—

156.6.21A.3.a

the risks to residents of the domestic premises identified by the risk
assessment;

156.6.21A.3.b

the preventive and protective measures;

156.6.21A.3.c

the name of the responsible person and an address in the United Kingdom at
which the responsible person, or someone acting on their behalf, will accept
notices and other documents;

156.6.21A.3.d

the identity of any person appointed by the responsible person to assist them
with making or reviewing an assessment under article 9;

156.6.21A.3.e

the identity of any persons nominated by the responsible person under article
13(3)(b);

156.6.21A.3.f

any risks of which the responsible person has been informed under article
22(1)(c);

156.6.21A.3.g

any other matters specified in regulations made by the relevant authority.

156.6.21A.4

The information is to be provided at such times, and in such form, as may be
specified in regulations made by the relevant authority.

156.6.21A.5

The responsible person must keep records of the relevant fire safety matters.

156.6.21A.6

The “relevant authority”—

156.6.21A.6.a

in relation to premises in England, means the Secretary of State;

156.6.21A.6.b

in relation to premises in Wales, means the Welsh Ministers.

156.6.21A.7

Regulations under this article are to be made by statutory instrument.

156.6.21A.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under this article is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
either House of Parliament.

156.6.21A.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers
under this article is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
Senedd Cymru.

156.7

In article 22 (co-operation and co-ordination)—

156.7.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “between responsible persons” ;

156.7.b

before paragraph (1) insert—

156.7.b.A1

A person who is a responsible person in relation to any premises must take
such steps as are reasonably practicable to ascertain whether any other
responsible person shares, or has duties in respect of, the premises.

;

156.7.c

in paragraph (1) before sub-paragraph (1)(a) insert—

156.7.c.za

inform the other responsible persons concerned of that person’s name and an
address in the United Kingdom at which that person, or someone acting on their
behalf, will accept notices and other documents;

156.7.c.zb

inform the other responsible persons concerned of the part of the premises for
which that person considers themselves to be a responsible person, and keep a
record of that information;

.

156.8

After article 22 insert—

########### Provision of information to new responsible person

156.8.22A

156.8.22A.1

Paragraph  (2)  applies where a person (the “outgoing person”) ceases to be a
responsible person for premises and another person (the “new responsible
person”) becomes a responsible person for the premises in place of the
outgoing person.

156.8.22A.2

The outgoing person must give the new responsible person any relevant fire
safety information held by the outgoing person.

156.8.22A.3

“ Relevant fire safety information ” means—

156.8.22A.3.a

records kept under article 9(6) of assessments and reviews under article 9;

156.8.22A.3.b

the identity of any person appointed by the responsible person to assist them
with making or reviewing an assessment under article 9;

156.8.22A.3.c

the name of any other person who is a responsible person in relation to the
premises and an address in the United Kingdom at which that person, or someone
acting on their behalf, will accept notices and other documents (where known);

156.8.22A.3.d

where the premises consist of or include a higher-risk building, the identity
of any other person who is an accountable person in relation to the premises
(where known);

156.8.22A.3.e

any information given under regulation 38 of the Building Regulations 2010 (
S.I. 2010/2214 ) (fire safety information);

156.8.22A.3.f

any other matters specified in regulations made by the relevant authority.

156.8.22A.4

The information is to be provided at such times, and in such form, as may be
specified in regulations made by the relevant authority.

156.8.22A.5

A responsible person must keep records of relevant fire safety information.

156.8.22A.6

In this article—

“ accountable person ” has the meaning given by section 72 of the Building
Safety Act 2022; “ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given by section 65
of that Act; “ relevant authority ”— in relation to premises in England, means
the Secretary of State; in relation to premises in Wales, means the Welsh
Ministers.

156.8.22A.7

Regulations under this article are to be made by statutory instrument.

156.8.22A.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under this article is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
either House of Parliament.

156.8.22A.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh Ministers
under this article is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of
Senedd Cymru.

########### Co-operation with accountable persons

156.8.22B

156.8.22B.1

This article applies in relation to premises which consist of or include a
residential unit in a higher-risk building.

156.8.22B.2

The responsible person (“ P ”) must take such steps as are reasonably
practicable to ascertain whether there are one or more other persons who are
accountable persons in relation to the premises.

156.8.22B.3

If there are, P must co-operate with each accountable person for the purpose
of the accountable person carrying out their duties under the Building Safety
Act 2022.

156.8.22B.4

In this article—

“ accountable person ” has the meaning given by section 72 of the Building
Safety Act 2022; “ higher-risk building ” has the meaning given by section 65
of that Act; “ residential unit ” has the meaning given by section 115 of that
Act.

156.9

In article 29(5) (alterations notices), omit paragraphs (b) and (c).

156.10

In article 32 (offences)—

156.10.a

in paragraph (1)(a) for “22” substitute  “22B” ;

156.10.b

in paragraph (4) omit “not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale”;

156.10.c

in paragraph (7) omit “not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale”.

156.11

In article 50 (guidance)—

156.11.a

in paragraph (1) for “22” substitute  “22B” ;

156.11.b

in paragraph (1A)—

156.11.b.i

for “22” substitute  “22B” ;

156.11.b.ii

omit “in relation to a relevant building (or part of the building)”;

156.11.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (a) omit “risk based”;

156.11.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (b) omit “risk based”.

#### Architects

##### Architects: discipline and continuing professional development

157

157.1

The Architects Act 1997 is amended as follows.

157.2

In section 3 (the register), after  subsection (2)  insert—

157.2.2A

The Register shall show disciplinary orders made in relation to a registered
person for such period as may be prescribed.

157.3

In section 9 (competence to practise)—

157.3.a

in  subsection (1) , in the words after  paragraph (c) , after “practical
experience” insert  “or undertaken such recent training” ,

157.3.b

after  subsection (1)  insert—

157.3.b.1A

Before prescribing recent practical experience or training for the purposes of
subsection (1), the Board shall consult the bodies representative of
architects which are incorporated by royal charter and such other professional
and educational bodies as it thinks appropriate.

, and

157.3.c

after  subsection (2)  insert—

157.3.c.3

Where the Board decides that the name of a person to whom paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) applies is by virtue of that subsection to be removed from Part
1 of the Register—

157.3.c.3.a

the person shall be entitled to apply to the Board within a prescribed period
for an extension of time to gain the prescribed experience or undertake the
prescribed training or to otherwise satisfy the Board of the person’s
competence to practise, and

157.3.c.3.b

the Board shall not remove the name of the person from the Register unless—

157.3.c.3.b.i

the person has not made an application for an extension of time within the
prescribed period,

157.3.c.3.b.ii

an extension of time granted by the Board has expired and the Board is not
satisfied that the person has gained the prescribed experience or undertaken
the prescribed training or is otherwise competent to practise, or

157.3.c.3.b.iii

the Board has decided not to grant an extension of time in respect of an
application made by the person.

157.3.c.4

For the purposes of this section, a person is competent to practise if the
person has the skills, knowledge, experience and behaviours required for a
person to practise as an architect.

##### Architects: Appeals Committee

158

158.1

The Architects Act 1997 is amended as follows.

158.2

In section 1 (the Board)—

158.2.a

after subsection (2) insert—

158.2.a.2A

There is to be an Appeals Committee of the Board.

;

158.2.b

after subsection (4) insert—

158.2.b.4A

Part 2A of that Schedule makes provision about the Appeals Committee.

158.3

In section 4 (registration: general)—

158.3.a

in subsection (4)(b) for “refer the application to the Board” substitute
“refuse the application” ;

158.3.b

in subsection (6)—

158.3.b.i

omit “(4) or”;

158.3.b.ii

for the words from “direct” to the end substitute

—

158.3.b.ii.a

direct the Registrar to enter the person’s name in the Register if it is
satisfied that the person is entitled to be registered, or

158.3.b.ii.b

direct the Registrar to refuse the application if it is not so satisfied.

158.4

In section 6(4B) (notice of refusal of application) for the words from “in the
case” to “section 4(2A)” substitute  “of an application” .

158.5

In section 9 (competence to practise) after subsection (2) insert—

158.5.2A

A notice under subsection (2) must state reasons for the decision.

158.6

In Part 5 (general and supplementary) before section 22 insert—

########### Appeals to the Appeals Committee

158.6.21A

158.6.21A.1

A person may appeal to the Appeals Committee against—

158.6.21A.1.a

a decision to refuse the person’s application for registration, or

158.6.21A.1.b

if the person is a person to whom paragraph (b) of section 9(1) applies, a
decision to remove or not to re-enter the person’s name in the Register as a
result of section 9(1).

158.6.21A.2

The Board may make rules about appeals to the Appeals Committee, including in
particular rules about—

158.6.21A.2.a

the period within which any appeal must be made;

158.6.21A.2.b

the way in which an appeal is to be made or withdrawn;

158.6.21A.2.c

the fee that must be paid on the making of an appeal (including circumstances
in which that fee may or must be refunded);

158.6.21A.2.d

the procedure to be followed by the Appeals Committee in relation to an
appeal;

158.6.21A.2.e

the effect of the making of an appeal, pending its determination, on the
decision appealed against.

158.6.21A.3

On the determination of an appeal, the Appeal Committee may make any decision
that could have been made by the person who made the decision appealed
against.

158.6.21A.4

The Appeals Committee must, within the prescribed period after determining a
person’s appeal, serve on the person written notice of the decision made on
that determination.

158.7

In section 22 (appeals)—

158.7.a

in subsection (1)—

158.7.a.i

for paragraph (a) substitute—

158.7.a.i.a

a decision of the Appeals Committee under section 21A, on an appeal made by
the person;

;

158.7.a.ii

for paragraph (c) substitute—

158.7.a.ii.c

the person’s name not being re-entered in the Register under section 18 as a
result of section 9(1);

;

158.7.b

in subsection (2) omit “Subject to subsection (3),”;

158.7.c

omit subsection (3);

158.7.d

in the heading at the end insert  “to the court” .

158.8

In section 24(2) (service of documents) for “or 15(3)” substitute  “, 15(3) or
21A(4)” .

158.9

In Schedule 1 (the Board and its committees) after Part 2 insert—

########### The appeals committee

158.9.17B

158.9.17B.1

The Board may make rules about—

158.9.17B.1.a

the composition of the Appeals Committee;

158.9.17B.1.b

the selection and term of office of members of the Appeal Committee (including
casual vacancies);

158.9.17B.1.c

the meetings and procedure (including chairing and quorum) of the Appeal
Committee;

158.9.17B.1.d

votes of the Appeal Committee (including providing for a casting vote and the
way in which it is to be exercised).

158.9.17B.2

Before making rules about the composition of the Appeals Committee, the Board
must consult the Secretary of State.

158.10

In Part 4 of that Schedule (general provisions), after “Professional Conduct
Committee”, in each place it occurs, insert  “, the Appeals Committee” .

##### Architects Registration Board: fees and discharge of functions by a committee

159

159.1

In the Architects Act 1997, after section 24 insert—

########### Fees

159.1.24A

159.1.24A.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations for, and relating to, the charging
of fees by the Board in respect of services which it provides.

159.1.24A.2

Regulations under this section may in particular make provision about—

159.1.24A.2.a

the services, or types of services, in respect of which the Board may charge a
fee;

159.1.24A.2.b

the persons who are liable to pay a fee;

159.1.24A.2.c

how fees charged by the Board are to be calculated;

159.1.24A.2.d

how fees charged by the Board are to be paid.

159.1.24A.3

In this section, a “service”—

159.1.24A.3.a

includes any exercise by the Board of its power to prescribe qualifications
for the purposes of section 4(1)(a);

159.1.24A.3.b

does not include any service in respect of which a fee may be prescribed under
any other provision of this Act.

159.1.24A.4

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

159.1.24A.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

159.2

In Schedule 1 to that Act (the Board and its committees), in paragraph
18(2)(b) (functions of the Board which may not be discharged by a committee)
for “4(1) or (2)” substitute  “4(2)” .

159.3

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (2), in section 11(5) of
the Professional Qualifications Act 2022 for the words from “after” to the end
substitute  “for “4(2)” substitute “4(1A) or (2)”.”

#### Housing complaints

##### Housing complaints made to a housing ombudsman

160

160.1

Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 is amended in accordance with  subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

160.2

In paragraph 7 (determinations by housing ombudsman)—

160.2.a

after “approved scheme shall” insert  “, in accordance with the scheme,” , and

160.2.b

for the words from “and not withdrawn” to “but withdrawn” substitute  “under
the scheme” .

160.3

Omit paragraphs 7A to 7C (complaints to a housing ombudsman to be referred by
designated person and exceptions).

160.4

The amendments made by this section apply in relation to a complaint made to a
housing ombudsman—

160.4.a

after the time this section comes into force, or

160.4.b

before the time this section comes into force, but only if a determination by
a housing ombudsman is still pending in respect of the complaint at such time.

### General

#### Liability of officers of body corporate etc

161

161.1

Where an offence under  Part 2  or  4  committed by a body corporate—

161.1.a

is committed with the consent or connivance of any director, manager,
secretary or other similar officer of the body corporate, or any person who
was purporting to act in any such capacity, or

161.1.b

is attributable to any neglect on the part of any such person,

that person as well as the body corporate commits the offence and is liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

161.2

In  subsection (1)  “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose
affairs are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

161.3

Subsection (1)  also applies in relation to a body that is not a body
corporate, with the substitution for the reference to a director of the body
of a reference—

161.3.a

in the case of a partnership, to a partner;

161.3.b

in the case of an unincorporated body other than a partnership—

161.3.b.i

where the body’s affairs are managed by its members, to a member of the body;

161.3.b.ii

in any other case, to a member of the governing body.

161.4

Where—

161.4.a

a relevant company is an accountable person for a higher-risk building (within
the meaning of Part 4), and

161.4.b

one or more (but not all) directors of the relevant company have been
appointed for a building safety purpose and are entitled to remuneration from
the company,

this section, so far as relating to Part 4, does not apply in relation to a
director who is not entitled to remuneration from the relevant company.

161.5

In subsection (4)—

                           “ building safety purpose ” means the purpose of
supporting the relevant company in complying with its duties under Part 4 or
under regulations made under that Part;
“ relevant company ” means—
a resident management company within the meaning of section 111,
an RTM company within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002 (right to manage), or
a company that is a commonhold association within the meaning of Part 1 of
that Act (see section 34).

#### Review of regulatory regime

162

162.1

The Secretary of State must appoint an independent person to carry out a
review of—

162.1.a

the effectiveness of the regulator in—

162.1.a.i

exercising its building functions,

162.1.a.ii

securing the safety of people in or about buildings in relation to risks
arising from buildings, and

162.1.a.iii

improving the standard of buildings,

162.1.b

the adequacy and effectiveness of—

162.1.b.i

provision made by or under  Parts 2  and  4  of this Act, and

162.1.b.ii

provision made by or under the Building Act 1984 (except  section 105C ) that
applies in relation to England,

162.1.c

the effectiveness of the regulation of construction products in the United
Kingdom,

162.1.d

such matters connected with any of the matters mentioned in  paragraphs (a)
to  (c)  as the person considers appropriate, and

162.1.e

any other matter specified in the appointment.

162.2

On completion of a review, the appointed person must make a written report to
the Secretary of State—

162.2.a

setting out the result of the review, and

162.2.b

making such recommendations (if any) as the person considers appropriate.

162.3

The Secretary of State must publish a copy of the report.

162.4

The first appointment must be made within the period of 5 years beginning with
the day on which this Act is passed.

162.5

Any other appointment must be made within the period of 5 years beginning with
the day on which the most recent appointment was made.

162.6

In this section—

                           “ building function ” has the meaning given by
section 3;
“ independent ” means appearing to the Secretary of State to be independent
of—
the Secretary of State,
the regulator,
the profession of registered building inspectors,
the built environment industry (as defined by section 30),
persons carrying on activities connected with the manufacture, importation,
marketing or supply of construction products (as defined by  paragraph 24  of
Schedule 11 ), and
local authorities (as so defined);
“ the regulator ” has the meaning given by section 2.

#### Financial provisions

163

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

163.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by the Secretary of
State, and

163.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Crown application

164

164.1

The following provisions, and any provision made under them, bind the Crown—

164.1.a

Part 2 ;

164.1.b

Part 4  except sections 99, 100 and 103 (compliance notices);

164.1.c

sections 116 to  124  and  Schedule 8  (remediation of certain defects);

164.1.d

sections 136 to 142 and  Schedule 9  (new homes ombudsman scheme);

164.1.e

sections 144 and 145 (new build home warranties);

164.1.f

section 161.

164.2

No contravention by the Crown of a provision mentioned in  subsection (1)
makes the Crown criminally liable.

164.3

Subsection (2)  does not affect the criminal liability of persons in the
service of the Crown.

#### Application to Parliament

165

165.1

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the Parliamentary Estate—

165.1.a

sections 99, 100 and 103 (compliance notices under  Part 4 );

165.1.b

paragraphs 1  to  3  of  Schedule 2  (powers of entry of authorised officers).

165.2

If the Palace of Westminster (or any part of it) is a higher-risk building
within the meaning of  Part 4 , for the purposes of that Part the accountable
persons for the building are the Corporate Officer of the House of Lords and
the Corporate Officer of the House of Commons, acting jointly.

165.3

No contravention by a Corporate Officer of a provision made by or under  Part
2  or  4  makes the Corporate Officer criminally liable.

165.4

Subsection (3)  does not affect the criminal liability of relevant members of
the House of Lords staff or of the House of Commons staff (as defined by
sections 194 and 195 of the Employment Rights Act 1996).

165.5

In  subsection (3)  “ Corporate Officer ” means—

165.5.a

the Corporate Officer of the House of Lords,

165.5.b

the Corporate Officer of the House of Commons, or

165.5.c

the Corporate Officers acting jointly.

165.6

In this section “ Parliamentary Estate ” means any building or other premises
occupied for the purposes of either House of Parliament.

#### Power of Secretary of State to make consequential provision

166

166.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

166.2

The regulations may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by or under—

166.2.a

an Act passed before this Act;

166.2.b

an Act passed later in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

166.3

Regulations under this section may not make provision that may be made under
section 167.

#### Power of Welsh Ministers to make consequential provision

167

167.1

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make provision, in relation to Wales,
that is consequential on  Part 3  or section 156.

167.2

The regulations may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by or under—

167.2.a

an Act passed before this Act;

167.2.b

an Act passed later in the same session of Parliament as this Act;

167.2.c

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru passed before this Act.

167.3

The regulations may make—

167.3.a

transitional, transitory or saving provision;

167.3.b

different provision for different purposes.

167.4

The regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

167.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under this section that amend or repeal provision made by an Act,
or by an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

167.6

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

#### Regulations

168

168.1

This section applies to regulations under any provision of this Act except—

168.1.a

section 138 (7) (b)  (new homes ombudsman scheme: meaning of “developer”),

168.1.b

section 167 (power of Welsh Ministers to make consequential provision),

168.1.c

section 170 (commencement and transitional provision), and

168.1.d

Schedule 11  (construction products regulations).

168.2

A power to make regulations includes power to make—

168.2.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or saving
provision;

168.2.b

different provision for different purposes or for different areas.

168.3

Regulations may describe a building by reference to its height, size, design,
use, purpose or any other characteristic.

168.4

A power to make regulations about the way in which anything is to be given to
the regulator (as defined by section 2) includes power to provide that the
thing is to be given in a way specified in a direction made and published by
the regulator in accordance with the regulations.

168.5

Regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

168.6

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)—

168.6.a

regulations under section 12, 62, 65 (5) , 68, 71, 72, 74,   119A,  123, 126,
128, 129 or 140 or  paragraph 6  of  Schedule 3  or  paragraph 2 (12) ,  13
(10)  or  15 (4)  of  Schedule 7  or paragraph  3 (5) ,  12  or  15  of
Schedule 8 ,

168.6.b

regulations made by virtue of section 65 (3) (c) ,

168.6.c

regulations under section 89 (except regulations only making provision of a
kind mentioned in section 89 (2) ),

168.6.d

regulations under section 90 (except regulations only making provision of a
kind mentioned in section 90 (3)  or  (4) ),

168.6.e

regulations under section 92 (except regulations only making provision of a
kind mentioned in section 92 (3) ),

168.6.f

regulations under sections 153 to 155, or

168.6.g

regulations under section 166 that amend or repeal provision made by an Act,

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

168.7

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations is subject to annulment
in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

#### Extent

169

169.1

Subject as follows, this Act extends to England and Wales only.

169.2

The following provisions extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland—

169.2.a

Part 1 ;

169.2.b

paragraphs 87  and  88  of  Schedule 5  (and section 55 so far as relating to
those paragraphs);

169.2.c

sections 136 to 143  and  Schedule 9  (new homes ombudsman scheme);

169.2.d

section 146 and  Schedule 11  (construction products);

169.2.e

sections 152 to 155 (costs contribution orders);

169.2.f

section 157 to 159 (architects);

169.2.g

this Part except section 161, 164 and 167.

169.3

Section 2 (2)  and  Schedule 1  (amendments of the Health and Safety at Work
etc Act 1974) extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

169.4

The amendments made by  Schedule 10  (amendments in connection with the new
homes ombudsman scheme) have the same extent as the provision amended.

169.5

Sections 147 to 149 (liability relating to construction products) extend to
England and Wales and Scotland.

169.6

Section 151 (liability relating to construction products: limitation in
Scotland) extends to Scotland only.

169.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

169.7.a

provide for the provisions mentioned in subsection (5) to extend also to
Northern Ireland, and

169.7.b

make provision (including provision amending this Act or any other enactment)
in relation to the application of the provisions mentioned in subsection (5)
in Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement and transitional provision

170

170.1

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

170.1.a

section 1;

170.1.b

section 2 (1) ;

170.1.c

section 7;

170.1.d

section 28;

170.1.e

section 30;

170.1.f

sections 61 to 70;

170.1.g

section 115;

170.1.h

this Part  except sections 161 and 164.

170.2

Parts 2  and  4 , except the provisions mentioned in  subsection (1) , come
into force—

170.2.a

for the purposes of making regulations, on the day on which this Act is
passed;

170.2.b

for remaining purposes, on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations appoint.

170.3

The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

170.3.a

sections 116 to 125 and  Schedule 8 ;

170.3.b

section 134;

170.3.c

section 135;

170.3.d

section 146 and  Schedule 11 ;

170.3.e

sections 147 to 155;

170.3.f

sections 157 to 159.

170.4

As regards  Part 3  and section 156—

170.4.a

the following provisions come into force on such day as the Welsh Ministers
may by regulations appoint—

170.4.a.i

section 31 so far as relating to section 120I of the Building Act 1984;

170.4.a.ii

section 32 (3)  so far as relating to section 91ZD of that Act;

170.4.a.iii

section 42 so far as relating to section  58Z2  and  58Z10  of that Act;

170.4.a.iv

paragraph 56  of  Schedule 5  (and section 55 so far as relating to that
paragraph);

170.4.a.v

paragraph 77 of that Schedule so far as relating to section 120C of the
Building Act 1984 (and section 55 so far as relating to that section);

170.4.b

the following provisions come into force, in relation to Wales, on such day as
the Welsh Ministers may by regulations appoint—

170.4.b.i

section 32 except  subsection (3)  of that section;

170.4.b.ii

section 33 except so far as relating to paragraph 1D(3) of Schedule 1 to the
Building Act 1984;

170.4.b.iii

sections 34 to 41 ;

170.4.b.iv

section 42 except so far as relating to section 58Z2, 58Z7 or  58Z10  of the
Building Act 1984;

170.4.b.v

section 43 and  Schedule 4 ;

170.4.b.vi

sections 44 to 52 ;

170.4.b.vii

section 53 except  subsection (1)  of that section;

170.4.b.viii

section 55 and  Schedule 5  except—

170.4.b.viii.A

paragraphs 38 and 87 to 89 of that Schedule (and section 55 so far as relating
to those paragraphs);

170.4.b.viii.B

paragraph 77 of that Schedule so far as relating to section 120B of the
Building Act 1984 (and section 55 so far as relating to that section);

170.4.b.ix

section 56 and  Schedule 6  except paragraphs 7 and 29 of that Schedule (and
section 56 so far as relating to those paragraphs);

170.4.b.x

section 57;

170.4.b.xi

section 156 except  subsection (8)  of that section so far as relating to
Article 22B of the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005;

170.4.c

subject to that,  Part 3  and section 156 come into force on such day as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

170.5

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Secretary
of State may by regulations appoint.

170.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

170.7

Regulations under  subsection (4) (a)  or  (b)  may make transitional or
saving provision.

170.8

The powers to make regulations under this section include power to make
different provision for different purposes or for different areas.

170.9

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

171

This Act may be cited as the Building Safety Act 2022.

## Schedules

Amendments of the Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974

Section 2

1

The Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 11 (functions of the Executive) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (5)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (a) after “functions” insert  “other than its building functions”
;

2.2.b

in paragraph (b) after “activities” insert  “other than its building
functions” .

2.3

In subsection (6)(b) at the end insert  “or to its building functions.”

3

After section 11 insert—

######## Powers of the Executive: buildings in England

3.11A

3.11A.1

The Executive may do such things and make such arrangements as it considers
appropriate in connection with any of its building functions.

3.11A.2

In particular, it may—

3.11A.2.a

assist and encourage persons concerned with matters relevant to those
functions;

3.11A.2.b

make arrangements for—

3.11A.2.b.i

the carrying out of research and the publication of the results of research;

3.11A.2.b.ii

the provision of training and information;

3.11A.2.c

encourage research and the provision of training and information by others;

3.11A.2.d

make arrangements for the provision of a service providing information or
advice on such matters, and to such persons, as it considers appropriate;

3.11A.2.e

institute criminal proceedings.

3.11A.3

And it may—

3.11A.3.a

appoint persons or committees of persons to provide it with advice, or to do
such other things as it considers appropriate, in connection with any of its
building functions, and

3.11A.3.b

remunerate those persons.

Nothing in  paragraph (b)  limits section 13(8).

3.11A.4

Any amounts paid under  subsection (3) (b)  are to be such as may be
determined by the Secretary of State.

4

In section 12(3) (control of the Executive) after “provisions” insert  “, or
the enforcement of the building enactments,” .

5

5.1

Section 13 (powers of the Executive) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (3) after “functions” insert  “on its behalf” .

5.3

In subsection (4) after “department or authority” insert  “on behalf of the
Minister, department or authority” .

5.4

In subsection (6) after “Part” insert  “or in connection with its building
functions” .

5.5

In subsection (7) after “functions” insert  “except its building functions” .

6

In section 27 (information powers) after subsection (4) insert—

6.5

In this section any reference to the Executive’s functions does not include
its building functions.

7

In section 53 (general interpretation) at the appropriate place insert—

“ the building enactments ” means the provisions of, and of instruments made
under— the Building Act 1984, and Parts  2  and  4  of the Building Safety Act
2022;

;

“ building function ” has the meaning given by section 3 of the Building
Safety Act 2022;

.

8

8.1

Schedule 2 (constitution of the Executive) is amended as follows.

8.2

In paragraph 2(3)(d)(iii) at the end insert  “, building safety, building
standards or fire safety.”

8.3

In paragraph 9(3)(b) after “provisions” insert  “, or the building
enactments,” .

8.4

In paragraph 12(2)—

8.4.a

after “Executive” insert  “or signed on its behalf” ;

8.4.b

after “so executed” insert  “or signed” .

                 Authorised officers: investigatory powers

Section 22

##### Entry to non-domestic premises without warrant

1

1.1

An authorised officer may enter any non-domestic premises which the officer
has reason to believe it is necessary for the officer to enter for a relevant
purpose—

1.1.a

at any reasonable time, or

1.1.b

at any time, in a situation which in the officer’s opinion is or may be
dangerous.

1.2

The officer may be accompanied by any person, and bring anything, required for
any purpose for which the officer is exercising the power of entry.

1.3

If the officer has reasonable cause to expect any obstruction in the exercise
of any relevant power, the officer may be accompanied by a constable.

1.4

The officer may—

1.4.a

take measurements and photographs, and may make recordings;

1.4.b

take samples of anything.

1.5

The officer may seize anything if it appears to the officer—

1.5.a

to be evidence of an offence under this Act or the Building Act 1984, and

1.5.b

to be necessary to seize it to prevent the evidence being concealed, lost,
altered or destroyed.

##### Entry to non-domestic premises with warrant

2

2.1

A justice of the peace may issue a warrant in respect of non-domestic premises
specified in the warrant if satisfied, on an information in writing made by an
authorised officer, that it is necessary—

2.1.a

for an authorised officer to enter the premises for a relevant purpose, and

2.1.b

to confer a power to enter by force (if necessary).

2.2

The warrant authorises any authorised officer to enter the premises at any
time (subject to  sub-paragraph (3) ) for the purposes specified in the
warrant, by force (if necessary).

2.3

The warrant may limit the times at which the power of entry may be exercised.

2.4

Sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (5)  of  paragraph 1  apply in relation to the power
of entry conferred by a warrant under  this paragraph  as they apply in
relation to the power of entry conferred by  sub-paragraph (1)  of that
paragraph.

##### Entry to domestic premises (with warrant)

3

3.1

A justice of the peace may issue a warrant in respect of domestic premises
specified in the warrant if satisfied, on an information in writing made by an
authorised officer, that—

3.1.a

it is necessary for an authorised officer to enter the premises for a relevant
purpose, and

3.1.b

one of the following conditions is met—

3.1.b.i

that entry to the premises for the relevant purpose has been, or is likely to
be, refused;

3.1.b.ii

that no person entitled to grant entry to the premises can be found;

3.1.b.iii

that requesting entry may frustrate or seriously prejudice the purpose of
entry.

3.2

The warrant—

3.2.a

authorises any authorised officer to enter the premises at any time (subject
to  sub-paragraph (3) ) for the purposes specified in the warrant, and

3.2.b

confers such additional powers as may be specified in the warrant.

3.3

The warrant may limit the times at which the power of entry may be exercised.

3.4

For this purpose “ additional powers ” means—

3.4.a

the power to enter by force (if necessary);

3.4.b

the powers under  sub-paragraphs (2)  to  (5)  of  paragraph 1 .

3.5

An additional power may be specified in the warrant only if the justice of the
peace is satisfied that it is necessary to confer the power.

##### Power to require information, documents etc

4

4.1

An authorised officer may for a relevant purpose require a person to give
specified information or documents to the officer by such time as may be
specified.

4.2

In the case of a document consisting of information held in electronic form,
the officer may require it to be produced—

4.2.a

in a legible form, or

4.2.b

in a form from which it can readily be produced in legible form.

4.3

The officer may inspect and take copies of (or of any information in) any
document that is produced.

4.4

An authorised officer may for a relevant purpose require a person to provide
such facilities and assistance to the officer as may be specified, by such
time as may be specified.

4.5

A requirement under this paragraph is imposed by the authorised officer in
question giving, to the person in question, a notice in writing that states—

4.5.a

that it is a notice containing a requirement under this paragraph, and

4.5.b

the consequences of failing to comply with the requirement.

4.6

Information provided by a person under  sub-paragraph (1)  is not admissible
in evidence against that person in criminal proceedings except—

4.6.a

in proceedings for an offence under section 24,

4.6.b

in proceedings for an offence under  paragraph 6 (1) ,

4.6.c

in proceedings for an offence of perverting the course of justice, or

4.6.d

if in the proceedings—

4.6.d.i

in giving evidence the person makes a statement inconsistent with the
information, and

4.6.d.ii

evidence as to the information that was provided is adduced, or a question
relating to it is asked, by or on behalf of the person.

4.7

In this paragraph—

                                    “ document ” includes information recorded
in any form;
“ specified ”, in relation to a requirement, means specified in the notice
imposing the requirement.

##### Retention of evidence etc

5

Anything that has been seized under  paragraph 1 (5) , or any document
produced under  paragraph 4 , may be retained for so long as is necessary in
all the circumstances.

##### Offence of failing to provide information, documents etc

6

6.1

A person who fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement
under  paragraph 4  commits an offence.

6.2

A person guilty of an offence under  this paragraph  is liable—

6.2.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

6.2.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years or a fine (or both).

##### Interpretation

7

7.1

In  this Schedule  —

                                    “ authorised officer ”, in relation to the
exercise of any power conferred by or the doing of anything else mentioned in
a paragraph of  this Schedule  for the purpose of a relevant building
function, means a person authorised under section 22 in relation to that
paragraph for the purposes of that function;
“ domestic premises ” means premises (in England or Wales) used wholly or
mainly as a private dwelling;
“ non-domestic premises ” means premises (in England or Wales) that are not
domestic premises;
“ relevant purpose ”, in relation to an authorised officer, means the purpose
of any relevant building function specified in the officer’s authorisation.

7.2

In sub-paragraph (1) “ relevant building function ” has the meaning given by
section 22.

##### Saving for material subject to legal professional privilege

8

Nothing in this Schedule confers power to—

8.a

seize anything, or

8.b

compel the production by any person of a document or information,

in respect of which a claim to legal professional privilege could be
maintained in legal proceedings.

Cooperation and information sharing

Section 27

##### Interpretation



1

In  this Schedule  any reference to a function under an enactment includes a
function under an instrument made under the enactment.

##### Local authorities, fire and rescue authorities etc



2

2.1

The regulator and a local authority must cooperate with each other in the
exercise of their relevant functions.

2.2

The regulator and a fire and rescue authority must cooperate with each other
in the exercise of—

2.2.a

any building function of the regulator,

2.2.b

any function of the authority under—

2.2.b.i

section 6 or 7 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004,

2.2.b.ii

the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, or

2.2.b.iii

section 13 of this Act, and

2.2.c

any other prescribed function of the authority.

2.3

The regulator and an FSO authorised person must cooperate with each other in
the exercise of their relevant functions.

2.4

A relevant person may disclose information held in connection with any of
their relevant functions to another relevant person for the purposes of a
relevant function of either of them.

2.5

In  this paragraph —

“ FSO authorised person ” has the meaning given by section 14; “ relevant
function ” means— in relation to the regulator, any building function; in
relation to a local authority, a function under any of the following— the
Prevention of Damage by Pests Act 1949; Part 2 of the Public Health Act 1961;
Part 11 of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982; the
Building Act 1984; Part 3 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990; Parts 1 to
4 of the Housing Act 2004; section 13 of this Act; or any other prescribed
function; in relation to a fire and rescue authority, a function under any of
the following— the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004; the Regulatory Reform
(Fire Safety) Order 2005; section 13 of this Act; or any other prescribed
function; in relation to an FSO authorised person, any function under— the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, or section 14 of this Act; “
relevant person ” means— the regulator; a local authority; a fire and rescue
authority; an FSO authorised person.

##### Ombudsmen



3

3.1

The regulator and a person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  must cooperate
with each other in the exercise of—

3.1.a

any building function of the regulator, and

3.1.b

any relevant function of the person.

3.2

The regulator may disclose to a person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)
information held in connection with any of its building functions, for the
purpose of any of those functions or any relevant functions of the person.

3.3

A person mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4)  may disclose to the regulator
information held in connection with any of their relevant functions, for the
purpose of any of those functions or any building function of the regulator.

3.4

The persons are—

3.4.a

the Regulator of Social Housing;

3.4.b

a person who administers a relevant scheme.

3.5

“ Relevant scheme ” means—

3.5.a

a scheme approved under Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 (housing
complaints: social landlords),

3.5.b

a redress scheme to which persons are required by virtue of section 83 of the
Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 (lettings agency work) to be
members,

3.5.c

a redress scheme to which persons are required by virtue of section 84 of that
Act (property management work) to be members, or

3.5.d

the new homes ombudsman scheme.

3.6

In  this paragraph  “ relevant function ” means—

3.6.a

in relation to the Regulator of Social Housing, any of its functions;

3.6.b

in relation to a person who administers a relevant scheme, any function
relating to that scheme.

##### Secretary of State



4

4.1

The regulator may disclose to the Secretary of State information held in
connection with any of its building functions, for the purpose of any of those
functions or any relevant function of the Secretary of State.

4.2

The Secretary of State may disclose to the regulator information held in
connection with any relevant function, for the purpose of any relevant
function or any building function of the regulator.

4.3

In  this paragraph  “ relevant function ” means any function of the Secretary
of State (whether or not under an enactment) that relates to buildings.

##### Police



5

5.1

The regulator may disclose to a constable information held by it in connection
with any of its building functions.

5.2

A constable to whom information is disclosed in pursuance of  sub-paragraph
(1)  must not use the information for a purpose other than—

5.2.a

a purpose relating to the prevention, detection, investigation or prosecution
of an offence (whether or not under this Act);

5.2.b

a purpose of the police relating to public health or public safety;

5.2.c

a purpose relating to national security.

##### Public authorities



6

6.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring the
regulator and any prescribed public authority to cooperate with each other in
the exercise of—

6.1.a

any building function of the regulator, and

6.1.b

any prescribed function of the public authority, so far as it relates to
England.

6.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising a
relevant person and any prescribed public authority to disclose prescribed
information to each other for the purpose of—

6.2.a

any relevant function of the relevant person, and

6.2.b

any prescribed function of the public authority, so far as it relates to
England.

6.3

In  this paragraph  “relevant person” and “relevant function” have the meaning
given in  paragraph 2 .

                 Transfer of approved inspectors’ functions to registered
building control approvers

Section 43

1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

2

In section 42(1) (appeals) for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered
building control approver” .

3

In the heading before section 47, for “approved inspectors” substitute
“registered building control approvers” .

4

4.1

Section 47 (giving and acceptance of initial notice) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (1)—

4.2.a

in  paragraph (a)  for “an approved inspector” substitute  “a registered
building control approver” ;

4.2.b

in the words after paragraph (d) for “approved inspector” substitute
“registered building control approver” .

4.3

In subsection (5)(b)—

4.3.a

for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered building control approver” ;

4.3.b

for “his” substitute  “their” .

5

Omit section 49 (approved inspectors).

6

In section 50(7) (plans certificates) for “approved inspector”, in both places
it occurs, substitute  “registered building control approver” .

7

In section 51 (1)  (final certificates)—

7.a

for “an approved inspector” substitute  “a registered building control
approver” ;

7.b

for “him” substitute  “them” ;

7.c

for “he” substitute  “they” ;

7.d

for “his” substitute  “their” .

8

In section 51A(2)(a)(ii) (variation of work) for “approved inspector”
substitute  “registered building control approver” .

9

In section 51C(2)(a) (change of person carrying out work) for “approved
inspector” substitute  “registered building control approver” .

10

10.1

Section 52 (cancellation of initial notice) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1)—

10.2.a

in  paragraph (a) —

10.2.a.i

for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered building control approver” ;

10.2.a.ii

for “his” substitute  “their” ;

10.2.b

in  paragraph (b) —

10.2.b.i

for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered building control approver” ;

10.2.b.ii

for “he is” substitute  “they are” ;

10.2.b.iii

for “his” substitute  “their” ;

10.2.c

in  paragraph (c)  for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered building
control approver” .

10.3

In subsection (2)(a) for “approved inspector” substitute  “registered building
control approver” .

11

In section 56(5) (powers to require information) for “approved inspector”
substitute  “registered building control approver” .

12

In section 57 (offences), for subsection (3) substitute—

12.3

Where a registered building control approver is convicted of an offence under
this section, the court by or before which they are convicted must, within one
month of the date of conviction, forward a certificate of the conviction to—

12.3.a

the regulatory authority, or

12.3.b

if the regulatory authority has delegated its functions in relation to the
register of building control approvers to another person under  section 58Y ,
that person.

13

In section 58(3) (construction of  Part 2 )—

13.a

for “an approved inspector” substitute  “a registered building control
approver” ;

13.b

for “him” substitute  “them” .

14

In section 126 (general interpretation)—

14.a

omit the definition of “approved inspector”;

14.b

at the appropriate place insert—

                                    “ registered building control approver ”
has the meaning given by  section 58N ;

;

                                                                    “
“registered building inspector ” has the meaning given by  section 58B ;

;

                                         “ regulatory authority ” has the
meaning given by section  58A ;

.

Minor and consequential amendments in connection with Part  3

Section 55

##### Amendments of the Building Act 1984

1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 1 is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

2.3

In subsection (4) for the words from “subject to” to the end substitute

—

2.3.a

in the case of a statutory instrument made by the Secretary of State, subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament;

2.3.b

in the case of a statutory instrument made by the Welsh Ministers, subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

3

In section 1A(1) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

4

4.1

Section 2 is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (1) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

4.3

In subsections (3) and (4) for “local authority” substitute  “building control
authority” .

5

5.1

Section 3 is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (2) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

5.3

After that subsection insert—

5.3.2A

The regulator may at any time make a proposal to the Secretary of State for
the giving of a direction under subsection (2).

5.3.2B

Before making a proposal, the regulator must consult such persons as it
considers appropriate.

5.3.2C

Before giving a direction under subsection (2), other than a direction
proposed by the regulator, the Secretary of State must consult—

5.3.2C.a

the regulator, and

5.3.2C.b

any other person that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

5.4

In subsection (3)—

5.4.a

omit “not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale”;

5.4.b

for “£50” substitute  “level 1 on the standard scale” .

6

In section 4(1)(a)(i) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

7

In section 5(3)(b) omit “of building regulations”.

8

Omit section 5(4).

9

9.1

Section 6 is amended as follows.

9.2

For “Secretary of State”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

9.3

In subsection (1) for “him”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “the
appropriate national authority” .

9.4

In subsection (4)(a) omit “him or”.

9.5

In subsection (5) omit “his or”.

9.6

After that subsection insert—

9.6.5A

A notice under subsection (3) or (5) may contain transitional or saving
provision (and different provision may be made for different purposes or for
different areas).

9.6.5B

A body may give an approval under subsection (1) or (4), or withdraw an
approval under subsection (5), only with the consent of the appropriate
national authority.

9.7

In subsection (8) for the words from “subject to” to the end substitute

—

9.7.a

in the case of a statutory instrument made by the Secretary of State, subject
to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament;

9.7.b

in the case of a statutory instrument made by the Welsh Ministers, subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

9.8

After subsection (8) insert—

9.8.9

An order under subsection (8) may provide that a body is designated only in
relation to—

9.8.9.a

buildings of a specified description;

9.8.9.b

work of a specified description;

9.8.9.c

specified provisions of building regulations.

10

10.1

Section 7 is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (1)(a) for the words from “document” to “provision” substitute
“relevant approved document” .

10.3

After subsection (1) insert—

10.3.1A

In subsection (1) “ relevant approved document ” means a document approved for
the purposes of the provision that applies in relation to the work in
question.

11

11.1

Section 8 is amended as follows.

11.2

For “Secretary of State”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

11.3

In subsection (1) for “he” substitute  “it” .

11.4

After subsection (3) insert—

11.4.3A

If, in a case where the regulator is the building control authority—

11.4.3A.a

an application for a direction under this section is made to the regulator,
and

11.4.3A.b

the regulator considers that the operation of a requirement in building
regulations would be unreasonable in relation to the particular case,

it may give a direction dispensing with or relaxing the requirement.

11.4.3B

No application under subsection (1) or (2) may be made in a case where the
regulator is the building control authority.

12

12.1

Section 9 is amended as follows.

12.2

For “Secretary of State”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

12.3

In subsection (1) for “or (2) above” substitute  “, (2) or (3A)” .

12.4

In subsection (2) for “The application” substitute  “An application under
section 8(1) or (2)” .

12.5

In subsection (3) at the end insert  “or in a case where the regulator is the
building control authority.”

13

13.1

Section 10 is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsections (1), (2), (4) and (5) for “Secretary of State”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “appropriate national authority” .

13.3

In subsections (1), (2) and (5) for “local authority”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “building control authority” .

13.4

In subsection (1) after “(2)” insert  “, (3A)” .

13.5

In subsection (2) omit “he, they or”.

13.6

In subsection (4) omit “himself”.

14

14.1

Section 11 is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1)—

14.2.a

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

14.2.b

for “he may, either on an application made to him or of his” substitute  “the
authority may, either on an application made by any person (the “original
applicant”) or of its” .

14.3

In subsection (2)(b)—

14.3.a

after “may” insert  “, either on an application or of the appropriate national
authority’s own accord,” ;

14.3.b

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” .

14.4

In subsection (3)—

14.4.a

after “(1)” insert  “or (2)(b)” ;

14.4.b

for “Secretary of State”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

14.5

After that subsection insert—

14.5.3A

The regulator may at any time make a proposal to the Secretary of State for
the giving of a direction under this section.

14.5.3B

Before making a proposal, the regulator must consult—

14.5.3B.a

such persons as it considers appropriate, and

14.5.3B.b

if the proposal is for a direction that would vary or revoke a direction given
on an application under subsection (1), the original applicant.

14.5.3C

Before giving a direction under this section, other than a direction proposed
by the regulator, the Secretary of State must consult—

14.5.3C.a

the regulator,

14.5.3C.b

any other person the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and

14.5.3C.c

if the direction would vary or revoke a direction given on an application
under subsection (1), the original applicant.

14.6

For subsections (4) and (5) substitute—

14.6.4

Before giving a direction under subsection (1) or (2)(b), the Welsh Ministers
must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

14.6.5

Where the appropriate national authority gives a direction under subsection
(1) or (2)(b), it must publish notice of that fact in such way as it considers
appropriate.

14.7

In subsection (6)—

14.7.a

omit “not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale”;

14.7.b

for “£50” substitute  “level 1 on the standard scale” .

14.8

In subsection (7) for the words from “before that time” to the end substitute
“an application for building control approval in relation to the proposed work
was made before that time.”

15

15.1

Section 12 is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsections (1), (3), (7), (8), (9) and (11) and the heading, for
“Secretary of State”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

15.3

In subsection (1) for “to him or of his” substitute  “by any person (the
“original applicant”) or of its” .

15.4

In subsection (3) for “he” substitute  “it” .

15.5

In subsection (6)—

15.5.a

for “Secretary of State”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“appropriate national authority” ;

15.5.b

for the words from “him” to the end substitute  “it or of its own accord.”

15.6

In subsection (7) for “(1) or (6) above” substitute  “(1), (6) or (8)” .

15.7

In subsection (8) for the words from “but” to the end substitute  “either on
an application or of the appropriate national authority’s own accord.”

15.8

After subsection (8) insert—

15.8.8A

The regulator may at any time make a proposal to the Secretary of State for—

15.8.8A.a

the giving of an approval under subsection (1), or

15.8.8A.b

the varying or revocation of a certificate under subsection (6) or (8).

15.8.8B

Before making a proposal, the regulator must consult—

15.8.8B.a

such persons as it considers appropriate, and

15.8.8B.b

if the proposal is to vary or revoke a certificate issued on an application
under subsection (1), the original applicant.

15.8.8C

Before giving an approval or varying or revoking a certificate under this
section, unless acting on a proposal of the regulator, the Secretary of State
must consult—

15.8.8C.a

the regulator,

15.8.8C.b

any other person the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and

15.8.8C.c

if varying or revoking a certificate issued on an application under subsection
(1), the original applicant.

15.8.8D

Before varying or revoking a certificate issued on an application under
subsection (1), the Welsh Ministers must give the original applicant
reasonable notice that they propose to do so (except in the case of a
variation or revocation made on the application of that person).

15.9

In subsection (9) for “he”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “it” .

15.10

In subsection (10) for the words from “before that time” to the end substitute
“an application for building control approval in relation to the proposed work
was made before that time.”

16

16.1

Section 13 is amended as follows.

16.2

For “Secretary of State”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

16.3

In subsection (1) omit “on him”.

17

17.1

Section 14 is amended as follows.

17.2

Omit subsections (1) to (4).

17.3

In subsection (7) for the words from “such” to the end substitute  “any other
person that the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.”

17.4

In subsection (8)—

17.4.a

in paragraph (b) for “persons or bodies” substitute  “persons” ;

17.4.b

for paragraph (c) substitute—

17.4.b.c

any other person that the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.

17.5

In the heading at the end insert  “: Wales” .

18

In section 15 after subsection (2) insert—

18.3

As regards a requirement of a kind mentioned in subsection (1), the regulator
must consult the fire and rescue authority before exercising the power under
section 8(3A) in relation to any premises or proposed premises.

19

For the heading before section 16 substitute  “Building control approval” .

20

Omit sections 16 and 17.

21

21.1

Section 19 is amended as follows.

21.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs except subsection (1),
substitute  “building control authority” .

21.3

In subsection (1)—

21.3.a

for the words from the beginning to “plans show” substitute  “Where an
application for building control approval in respect of a proposed building is
made to a building control authority, and it appears” ;

21.3.b

for “plans conform” substitute  “application conforms” ;

21.3.c

in paragraph (a) for “the plans” substitute  “the application” ;

21.3.d

in paragraph (b) for “passing the plans” substitute  “granting the
application” .

21.4

In subsection (2)—

21.4.a

for “plans ought under the building regulations to have been deposited, but
have not been deposited,” substitute  “an application for building control
approval ought to have been made but was not made” ;

21.4.b

in paragraph (b) for “passing of plans for the building” substitute  “granting
of such an application” .

21.5

In subsection (4) for “plans” substitute  “an application” .

22

22.1

Section 20 is amended as follows.

22.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs except subsection (1),
substitute  “building control authority” .

22.3

In subsection (1)—

22.3.a

for the words from the beginning to “plans show” substitute  “Where an
application for building control approval in respect of any proposed work is
made to a building control authority, and it appears” ;

22.3.b

for “plans conform” substitute  “application conforms” ;

22.3.c

in paragraph (a) for “the plans” substitute  “the application” ;

22.3.d

in paragraph (b) for “passing the plans”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“granting the application” .

22.4

In subsection (2)—

22.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “plans” to “so
deposited” substitute  “an application for building control approval ought to
have been made but was not made” ;

22.4.b

in paragraph (b) for “passing plans” substitute  “granting the application” .

22.5

In subsection (3)—

22.5.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for the words from “plans” to “so
deposited” substitute  “an application for building control approval was not
required by building regulations to be made and was not made” ;

22.5.b

in paragraph (b) for the words from “if plans” to the end substitute  “if an
application for building control approval in respect of the work had been
required to be made and had been made, might have been imposed under
subsection (1) in granting the application,” .

22.6

In subsection (5)(a) for “plans” substitute  “an application” .

22.7

In subsection (7)—

22.7.a

omit “not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale”;

22.7.b

for “£50” substitute  “level 1 on the standard scale” .

22.8

In subsection (10)—

22.8.a

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

22.8.b

for “his”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “its” .

23

23.1

Section 21 is amended as follows.

23.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “building control
authority” .

23.3

In subsection (3) for “plans are deposited” substitute  “an application for
building control approval is made” .

23.4

In subsection (4) for the words from “plans” to “deposited with” substitute
“an application for building control approval in respect of a building or an
extension of a building is made to” .

24

24.1

Section 22 is amended as follows.

24.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “building control
authority” .

24.3

In subsection (2) for the words from “for whose drainage” to the end
substitute  “if building control approval has been given in respect of work
comprising drainage for the building.”

25

In section 23(3) for “local authority”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“building control authority” .

26

26.1

Section 24 is amended as follows.

26.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “building control
authority” .

26.3

In subsection (1)—

26.3.a

in paragraph (a) for the words from “plans” to “deposited with” substitute
“an application for building control approval in respect of a building or an
extension of a building is made to” ;

26.3.b

in the words after paragraph (b) for “plans” substitute  “application” .

26.4

In subsection (2) for “plans are deposited” substitute  “an application for
building control approval is made” .

27

27.1

Section 25 is amended as follows.

27.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “building control
authority” .

27.3

In subsection (1)—

27.3.a

for “plans of a house are, in accordance with building regulations, deposited
with” substitute  “an application for building control approval in respect of
a house is made to” ;

27.3.b

for “the plans” substitute  “the application” .

27.4

In subsection (2)—

27.4.a

for “plans are deposited” substitute  “an application for building control
approval is made” ;

27.4.b

for “pass the plans” substitute  “grant the application” .

27.5

In subsection (3) for “plans as aforesaid have been passed” substitute
“application has been granted” .

28

Omit section 31 (and the heading before it).

29

In the heading before section 32 for “deposit of plans” substitute  “building
control approval” .

30

30.1

Section 33 is amended as follows.

30.2

For subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

30.2.1

Where work to which building regulations are applicable is proposed or carried
out, the building control authority has the powers under  subsection (2)  for
the purpose of ascertaining whether any provision of building regulations is
or would be contravened—

30.2.1.a

by or in connection with the work, or

30.2.1.b

in relation to the building that the work has been, is being or will be
carried out on.

30.2.2

The powers are—

30.2.2.a

to require a person by whom or on whose behalf the work was, is being, or is
proposed to be done to carry out such reasonable tests of or in connection
with the work, or in relation to the building, as may be specified in the
requirement, or

30.2.2.b

to carry out any reasonable tests of or in connection with the work, or in
relation to the building, and to take any samples necessary to enable them to
carry out such a test. 

30.3

After subsection (3) insert—

30.3.3A

The tests that may be required or carried out under  subsection (2)  include
in particular tests involving—

30.3.3A.a

the cutting into or laying open of any work or any building, and

30.3.3A.b

the pulling down of any work.

30.4

In subsections (4), (5) and (6) for “local authority”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “building control authority” .

31

Omit section 35A.

32

32.1

Section 36 is amended as follows.

32.2

In subsections (1) to (3) for “local authority”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “building control authority” .

32.3

In subsection (1) after “those regulations” insert  “or a requirement imposed
by virtue of any of those regulations” .

32.4

In subsection (2)—

32.4.a

for “any section of this Part of this Act other than section 16” substitute
“any of sections 19 to 25” ;

32.4.b

for “plans”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “an application for
building control approval” ;

32.4.c

for paragraphs (a) and (b) (including the “or” at the end of paragraph (b))
substitute—

32.4.c.a

without such an application having been made,

32.4.c.b

notwithstanding the refusal of such an application, or

;

32.4.d

in paragraph (c) for “passed the plans” substitute  “granted such an
application” ;

32.4.e

in paragraph (ii) for “passing plans” substitute  “granting such an
application” .

32.5

For subsection (5) substitute—

32.5.5

Subsection (5A) applies where—

32.5.5.a

an application for building control approval is made to a building control
authority in respect of any work that is not higher-risk building work,

32.5.5.b

the application is granted, and

32.5.5.c

work that is shown on the plans approved by the granting of the application
(“the work”) is executed in accordance with—

32.5.5.c.i

the plans, and

32.5.5.c.ii

any requirement imposed by the building control authority.

32.5.5A

A section 36 notice may not be given on the ground that the work contravenes—

32.5.5A.a

any building regulations or any requirement imposed by virtue of the
regulations, or (as the case may be)

32.5.5A.b

any requirement under any of sections 19 to 25.

32.6

In subsection (6)—

32.6.a

for “does” substitute  “, and sections 35B and 35C, do” ;

32.6.b

for “local authority”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “building
control authority” ;

32.6.c

after “Attorney General” insert  “, the Counsel General to the Welsh
Government” ;

32.6.d

for paragraphs (a) to (c) substitute—

32.6.d.a

an application for building control approval was made to the local authority
in respect of the work,

32.6.d.b

the application was granted,

32.6.d.c

the work was executed in accordance with—

32.6.d.c.i

the plans approved by the granting of the application, and

32.6.d.c.ii

any requirement imposed by the authority, and

32.6.d.d

the work was not higher-risk building work,

.

33

In section 37(1) for “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“building control authority” .

34

In section 39(1) and (2) for “local authority”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “building control authority” .

35

In section 40(2), (3) and (6) for “local authority”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “building control authority” .

36

In section 41(1)(a) for the words from “under this” to the end substitute
“under, or under an instrument made under, this Part or Part 4 as it applies
in relation to this Part,” .

37

In section 42(1) for “local authority”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“building control authority” .

38

Omit sections 44 and 45 (and the heading before section 44).

39

In the heading of Part 2 for “LOCAL AUTHORITIES” substitute  “BUILDING CONTROL
AUTHORITIES” .

40

40.1

Section 47 is amended as follows.

40.2

In subsection (2)—

40.2.a

for “plans of it had been deposited with” substitute  “an application for
building control approval in respect of it had been made to” ;

40.2.b

for “passing the plans” substitute  “granting the application” .

40.3

After subsection (3) insert—

40.3.3A

Subsection (3) does not apply in prescribed circumstances.

41

41.1

Section 48 is amended as follows.

41.2

In subsection (1)—

41.2.a

in paragraph (a) after “section” insert  “ 35B ,  35C  or” ;

41.2.b

in paragraph (b) omit “of building regulations”.

41.3

In subsection (2)—

41.3.a

in paragraph (a) for “deposit of plans” substitute  “making of an application
for building control approval” ;

41.3.b

in paragraph (b) for “deposited plans” substitute  “plans accompanying the
application for building control approval” ;

41.3.c

in paragraph (c) for “passing or, as the case may be, the rejection of plans”
substitute  “approval or rejection of the application” ;

41.3.d

for paragraph (d) substitute—

41.3.d.d

where an initial notice ceases to be in force under section  53A , the
application for building control approval (treated by virtue of paragraph (a)
as made) is to be treated as if it was not made (and the approval was not
given).

42

42.1

Section 51A is amended as follows.

42.2

In subsection (4)—

42.2.a

for “plans of it had been deposited with” substitute  “an application for
building control approval in respect of it had been made to” ;

42.2.b

for “passing the plans” substitute  “granting the application” .

42.3

After subsection (5) insert—

42.3.5A

Subsection (5) does not apply in prescribed circumstances.

43

In section 51B(1)—

43.a

in paragraph (a) for “deposit of plans” substitute  “making of an application
for building control approval” ;

43.b

in paragraph (b) for “passing or, as the case may be, the rejection of plans”
substitute  “approval or rejection of the application” ;

43.c

in paragraph (c)—

43.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (i) for “deposited plans” substitute  “plans
treated as accompanying the application for building control approval” ;

43.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii) for “the deposited plans” substitute  “accompanying the
application” ;

43.d

in paragraph (d) for the words from “, the cancellation” to the end substitute
“and the initial notice ceases to be in force under section 53A, the
application for building control approval (treated by virtue of paragraph (a)
as made) is to be treated as if it was not made (and the approval was not
given).”

44

44.1

Section 52 is amended as follows.

44.2

In subsection (4) omit “not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale”.

44.3

In subsection (6) for “(5)” substitute  “(5A)” .

45

In section 53 omit subsections (6) and (6A).

46

46.1

Section 54 is amended as follows.

46.2

In subsection (1) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

46.3

In subsection (2)—

46.3.a

for “plans of it had been deposited with” substitute  “an application for
building control approval in respect of it had been made to” ;

46.3.b

for “passing the plans” substitute  “granting the application” .

47

In section 56(3) for the words from “, public body’s final certificates” to
the end substitute  “and public body’s final certificates.”

48

48.1

Section 57 is amended as follows.

48.2

In subsection (1)(a)(i) for the words from “of this Act” to the end (not
including the “and”) substitute “or a provision of building regulations that
is designated by the regulations for the purposes of this section,”.

48.3

In subsection (2)(a) omit “not exceeding the statutory maximum”.

49

Omit section 58(2).

50

In section 68(8)(b) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

51

In section 78(7)(b) omit “and (3) below”.

52

In section 86(1)(a) for the words from “under this” to the end substitute
“under, or under an instrument made under, this Part or Part 4 as it applies
in relation to this Part,” .

53

In section 90(2) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

54

In the italic heading before section 91 at the end insert  “etc” .

55

55.1

Section 91A is amended as follows.

55.2

In subsections (1), (2) and (4) for “local authority”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “relevant authority” .

55.3

In subsection (2)(a) omit “, or deposited with,”.

55.4

In subsection (5)—

55.4.a

in the definition of “prescribed” for “Secretary of State” substitute
“appropriate national authority” ;

55.4.b

insert at the appropriate place—

“ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the regulator.

55.5

In the heading after “local authorities” insert  “and the regulator” .

55.6

Omit subsections (6) to (8).

56

After section 91A insert—

######### Cooperation and the sharing of information: Wales

56.91B

56.91B.1

Relevant persons (as defined by subsection (7)) must cooperate with each other
in the exercise of any of the following functions—

56.91B.1.a

any function of a local authority under this Act,

56.91B.1.b

any function of a Welsh fire and rescue authority under—

56.91B.1.b.i

section 6 or 7 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004, or

56.91B.1.b.ii

the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, and

56.91B.1.c

any function of a fire inspector under that Order.

56.91B.2

A relevant person may disclose information held in connection with any of
their relevant functions to another relevant person for the purposes of a
relevant function of either of them.

56.91B.3

The Welsh Ministers and a relevant person must cooperate with each other in
the exercise of any of the following functions—

56.91B.3.a

a function of the Welsh Ministers under Part 2A;

56.91B.3.b

a function mentioned in the relevant paragraph of subsection (1).

56.91B.4

The Welsh Ministers may disclose information held in connection with a
function under Part 2A to a relevant person for the purposes of—

56.91B.4.a

a function of the Welsh Ministers under Part 2A, or

56.91B.4.b

 a function mentioned in the relevant paragraph of subsection (1).

56.91B.5

A relevant person may disclose information held in connection with a function
mentioned in the relevant paragraph of subsection (1) to the Welsh Ministers
for the purposes of—

56.91B.5.a

a function mentioned in the relevant paragraph of subsection (1), or

56.91B.5.b

a function of the Welsh Ministers under Part 2A.

56.91B.6

In subsections (3) to (5) “the relevant paragraph” of subsection (1), in
relation to a kind of relevant person, means the paragraph of subsection (1)
relating to a relevant person of that kind.

56.91B.7

In this section—

“ fire inspector ” means an inspector or assistant inspector appointed under
section 28(1) of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004; “ relevant person ”
means a local authority in Wales, Welsh fire and rescue authority or fire
inspector; “ relevant function ” means— in relation to a local authority, any
function of a local authority under— the Prevention of Damage by Pests Act
1949, Part 2 of the Public Health Act 1961, Part 11 of the Local Government
(Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982, Part 3 of the Environmental Protection
Act 1990, Parts 1 to 4 of the Housing Act 2004, or this Act, or any prescribed
function of a local authority; in relation to a Welsh fire and rescue
authority, any function of such an authority under— the Fire and Rescue
Services Act 2004, or the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005, or any
prescribed function of such an authority; in relation to a fire inspector, any
function of a fire inspector under the Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order
2005; “ Welsh fire and rescue authority ” means a fire and rescue authority,
within the meaning of Part 1 of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004, for an
area in Wales.

56.91B.8

Except as provided by subsection (9), the disclosure of information under this
section does not breach—

56.91B.8.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

56.91B.8.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

56.91B.9

This section does not authorise a disclosure of information if the disclosure
would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, take into account the powers conferred by this
section).

57

57.1

Section 92 is amended as follows.

57.2

In subsection (1) after “authority”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or the
regulator” .

57.3

In subsection (2)—

57.3.a

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority” ;

57.3.b

omit “made by statutory instrument”.

58

58.1

Section 94 is amended as follows.

58.2

The existing provision becomes subsection (1) of that section.

58.3

In that subsection—

58.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a) after “made by” insert  “or under” ;

58.3.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

58.3.b.ba

in the case of an authorised officer of the regulator, by—

58.3.b.ba.i

leaving it at the relevant address (see subsection (2)), or

58.3.b.ba.ii

sending it in a prepaid letter addressed to the officer at the relevant
address;

;

58.3.c

in paragraph (c) for “other person” substitute  “person other than an officer
of a local authority or an authorised officer of the regulator” ;

58.3.d

after paragraph (c) insert—

58.3.d.ca

in the case of a partnership, by—

58.3.d.ca.i

delivering it to any partner,

58.3.d.ca.ii

leaving it at the principal office of the partnership, or

58.3.d.ca.iii

sending it in a prepaid letter addressed to the partnership at its principal
office;

;

58.3.e

after paragraph (f) insert—

58.3.e.g

by sending it by email to an electronic address at which the person has agreed
to receive documents or has agreed to receive the document.

58.4

After that subsection insert—

58.4.2

In subsection (1)—

“ agreed ” means agreed in writing; “ authorised officer ” means a person in
respect of whom an authorisation under section 22 of the Building Safety Act
2022 is in force; “ the relevant address ” means— the address specified by the
officer in writing, or if no address has been specified, the principal office
of the regulator.

59

Omit section 94A.

60

In section 95 after subsection (2) insert—

60.2A

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to premises used wholly or
mainly as a private dwelling.

61

In section 97 after “authority” insert  “or the regulator” .

62

In section 99(2)(a) after “authority” insert  “or the regulator (as the case
may be)” .

63

63.1

Section 100 is amended as follows.

63.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “relevant
authority” .

63.3

After subsection (3) insert—

63.3.4

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

64

64.1

Section 101 is amended as follows.

64.2

In subsection (1) for “local authorities” substitute  “any relevant authority”
.

64.3

In subsection (2) for “local authority” substitute  “relevant authority” .

64.4

After that subsection insert—

64.4.3

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

65

In section 102(3)(b)(ii) after “authority” insert  “or the regulator” .

66

66.1

Section 104 is amended as follows.

66.2

In the provision—

66.2.a

after “authority”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “or the regulator” ;

66.2.b

after “authority”, in the second place it occurs, insert  “or regulator” .

66.3

In the heading after “authority” insert  “or regulator” .

67

67.1

Section 106 is amended as follows.

67.2

In subsection (2) omit “Subject to subsection (3) below,”.

67.3

Omit subsection (3).

68

68.1

Section 107 is amended as follows.

68.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “relevant
authority” .

68.3

After subsection (5) insert—

68.3.6

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

69

69.1

Section 108 is amended as follows.

69.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “relevant
authority” .

69.3

After subsection (4) insert—

69.3.5

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

70

70.1

Section 110 is amended as follows.

70.2

In the existing provision (which becomes subsection (1) of that section) for
“local authority” , in each place it occurs, substitute  “relevant authority”
.

70.3

After that subsection insert—

70.3.2

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

71

In section 111 for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

72

72.1

Section 112 is amended as follows.

72.2

The existing provision becomes subsection (1) of that section.

72.3

In that subsection for “level 1” substitute  “level 3” .

72.4

After that subsection insert—

72.4.2

Subsection (1) does not apply where the person obstructed is an authorised
officer (within the meaning of section 22 of the Building Safety Act 2022).

73

In section 113(b) after “authority” insert  “, the regulator, the Welsh
Ministers, the Counsel General to the Welsh Government” .

74

74.1

Section 119 is amended as follows.

74.2

In the existing provision (which becomes subsection (1) of that section)—

74.2.a

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national authority or the
regulator” ;

74.2.b

for “he” substitute  “it” .

74.3

After that subsection insert—

74.3.2

Section 250 of the Local Government Act 1972 (power to direct inquiries)
applies in relation to a local inquiry caused to be held by the regulator as
it applies in relation to one caused to be held by the Secretary of State.

75

In the italic heading before section 120 at the end insert  “and regulations”
.

76

76.1

Section 120 is amended as follows.

76.2

In subsection (1) for the words from “section” to “this Act,” substitute
“section 134(1)” .

76.3

In subsection (2)—

76.3.a

omit “30(3) above or”;

76.3.b

after “Secretary of State” insert  “or Welsh Ministers” ;

76.3.c

for “him” substitute  “the Secretary of State or Welsh Ministers” .

77

After section 120 insert—

######### Regulations

77.120A

77.120A.1

This section applies to regulations under section 54A, 55, 56A, 56B,  90A ,
91A, 92,  105B ,  105C ,  120D ,  120I  or  125A .

77.120A.2

A power to make regulations includes power to make—

77.120A.2.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or saving
provision;

77.120A.2.b

different provision for different purposes or for different areas.

77.120A.3

Regulations may describe a building by reference to its height, size, design,
use, purpose or any other characteristic.

77.120A.4

Regulations under section 54A may make such consequential amendments of this
Act as the appropriate national authority considers appropriate.

77.120A.5

Regulations under section  90A  may make such consequential amendments of this
Act as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

77.120A.6

Regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

77.120A.7

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)—

77.120A.7.a

regulations under section 54A,  90A ,  105C  or  125A , or

77.120A.7.b

regulations under section  120D (2) (b)  or  (6) , or regulations made by
virtue of  section 120D (4) (c) ,

may not be made by the Secretary of State unless a draft of the instrument has
been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

77.120A.8

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of
State is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

77.120A.9

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with other provision)
regulations under section 54A,  120I (2) or  125A  may not be made by the
Welsh Ministers unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and
approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

77.120A.10

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Welsh
Ministers is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd
Cymru.

######### Proposals and consultation relating to regulations made by the Secretary of State

77.120B

77.120B.1

The regulator may at any time make proposals to the Secretary of State for the
making of regulations under this Act.

77.120B.2

Before making a proposal, the regulator must consult such persons as it
considers appropriate.

77.120B.3

Before making any regulations under this Act, other than regulations proposed
by the regulator, the Secretary of State must consult—

77.120B.3.a

the regulator, and

77.120B.3.b

any other person that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

77.120B.4

This section does not apply in relation to regulations under  section 120D .

######### Consultation relating to regulations made by the Welsh Ministers

77.120C

77.120C.1

Before making any regulations under this Act except building regulations or
regulations under  section 120I , the Welsh Ministers must consult such
persons as they consider appropriate.

77.120C.2

Before making any regulations under  section 120I , the Welsh Ministers must
consult—

77.120C.2.a

the Building Regulations Advisory Committee for Wales, and

77.120C.2.b

any other person that the Welsh Ministers consider appropriate.

77.120C.3

See also section 14 (consultation requirements for building regulations).

78

78.1

Section 121 is amended as follows.

78.2

In subsection (2) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

78.3

After subsection (3) insert—

78.3.4

Nothing in this section applies in relation to  section 120D  or  120I .

79

Omit section 124.

80

After section 125 insert—

######### Meaning of work

80.125A

80.125A.1

In the relevant provisions references to work include a material change of use
as defined by building regulations.

80.125A.2

The appropriate national authority may by regulations provide that in a
specified relevant provision references to work include any specified matter.

80.125A.3

“ Relevant provision ” means any provision of the following—

80.125A.3.a

Part 1 except sections 2(3) to (5), 20(9), 21(7), 22(2), 33(3A), 36, 37 and
paragraph 1G of Schedule 1;

80.125A.3.b

Part 2;

80.125A.3.c

Part 2A;

80.125A.3.d

sections  91ZA  to  91ZD ;

80.125A.3.e

section 101A;

80.125A.3.f

section 105C;

80.125A.3.g

section 120I (3) .

80.125A.4

In this section “ specified ” means specified by regulations under this
section.

81

81.1

Section 126 is amended as follows.

81.2

At the appropriate place insert—

“ appropriate court or tribunal ” means— in relation to England, the tribunal;
in relation to Wales, a magistrates’ court;

;

“ appropriate national authority ” means— in relation to England, the
Secretary of State; in relation to Wales, the Welsh Ministers;

;

“ building control approval ” has the meaning given by paragraph  1B  of
Schedule 1;

;

“ “building control authority ” has the meaning given by  section 121A ;

;

“ “the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);

;

“ higher-risk building ”— in relation to England, has the meaning given by
section 120D ; in relation to Wales, has the meaning given by  section 120I ;

;

“ “higher-risk building work ”— in relation to England, has the meaning given
by section  91ZA ; in relation to Wales, has the meaning given by  section
120I ;

;

“ “maximum summary term for either-way offences ”, with reference to
imprisonment for an offence, means— if the offence is committed before the
time when paragraph 24(2) of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 comes into
force, 6 months; if the offence is committed after that time, 12 months;

;

“ “the regulator ” means the Health and Safety Executive;

;

“ “the tribunal ” means the First-tier Tribunal;

.

81.3

Omit the definition of “relevant period”.

82

In section 134 after subsection (1) insert—

82.1A

Except so far as relating to the provisions listed in subsection (1B), the
reference in subsection (1) to the Secretary of State is to be read, in
relation to Wales, as a reference to the Welsh Ministers.

82.1B

The provisions mentioned in subsection (1A) are sections 38, 44, 45 and 133(2)
and Schedule 7.

83

83.1

Schedule 1 is amended as follows.

83.2

In paragraph 1(b) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

83.3

Omit paragraphs 2 to 5.

83.4

In paragraph 6—

83.4.a

for “local authorities”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “building
control authorities” ;

83.4.b

for “local authority” substitute  “building control authority” .

83.5

In paragraph 7A(4) for “under paragraph 4A” substitute  “by virtue of
paragraph 1A ” .

83.6

In paragraph 8—

83.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(e) omit the words “for the purposes of this paragraph”;

83.6.b

in sub-paragraph (2) for “(6)” substitute  “(7)” ;

83.6.c

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

83.6.c.7

The provision that may be made by building regulations includes provision
imposing a requirement to do things for the purpose mentioned in section
1(1)(b) (conserving fuel and power) in any case where a building becomes a
building of a prescribed description.

83.7

Omit paragraph 9.

83.8

For paragraph 10 substitute—

83.8.10

83.8.10.1

Building regulations may make supplementary, incidental, transitional,
transitory or saving provision.

83.8.10.2

Building regulations may make—

83.8.10.2.a

different provision for different purposes, and

83.8.10.2.b

different provision for different areas.

83.8.10.3

The power conferred by sub-paragraph (2)(a) includes in particular the power
to make different provision for—

83.8.10.3.a

higher-risk buildings or proposed higher-risk buildings, or

83.8.10.3.b

higher-risk building work,

and different provision for different descriptions of such buildings or work.

83.8.10.4

Nothing in sub-paragraph (3) is to be read as limiting the effect of section
34 (classification of buildings).

83.9

In paragraph 11 for “Secretary of State”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“appropriate national authority” .

84

84.1

Schedule 2 is amended as follows.

84.2

For “local authority”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “building control
authority” .

84.3

In paragraphs 2 and 3(5) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate
national authority” .

85

In Schedule 3, in paragraph 4 for “section 14(3)” substitute  “ section 120B
(3) ” .

86

In Schedule 4, in paragraph 4 omit sub-paragraph (6).

##### Other amendments

###### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (c. 13)

87

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967, omit the entry
relating to the Building Regulations Advisory Committee for England.

###### Freedom of Information Act 2000 (c. 36)

88

In Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000, in Part 6 omit the entry
relating to the Building Regulations Advisory Committee for England.

###### Sustainable and Secure Buildings Act 2004 (c. 22)

89

89.1

The Sustainable and Secure Buildings Act 2004 is amended as follows.

89.2

In section 3 omit subsections (8) and (9).

89.3

In section 4 omit subsection (4).

###### The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 (

90

90.1

The Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005 is amended as follows.

90.2

Omit article 45.

90.3

In article 52(1) omit sub-paragraph (k).

Appeals and other determinations

Section 56

##### Introduction

1

The Building Act 1984 is amended as follows.

##### Transfer from Secretary of State to the regulator

2

In section 10(6) (procedure where appeal against decision of local authority
under section 8) for the words from “to the Secretary of State” to the end
substitute

copies of the representations to—

2.a

the regulator, in the case of a local authority for an area in England;

2.b

the Welsh Ministers, in the case of a local authority for an area in Wales.

3

3.1

Section 20 (use of materials unsuitable for permanent building) is amended as
follows.

3.2

In subsection (5) omit the words from “to the Secretary of State” to the end.

3.3

After that subsection insert—

3.3.5A

The appeal is to be made to—

3.3.5A.a

the regulator, in the case of action by a local authority for an area in
England;

3.3.5A.b

the tribunal, in the case of action by the regulator;

3.3.5A.c

the Welsh Ministers, in the case of action by a local authority for an area in
Wales.

4

4.1

Section 39 (appeal against refusal to relax building regulations) is amended
as follows.

4.2

In subsection (1) omit “to the Secretary of State”.

4.3

After that subsection insert—

4.3.1A

The appeal is to be made to—

4.3.1A.a

the regulator, in the case of a refusal by a local authority for an area in
England;

4.3.1A.b

the tribunal, in the case of a refusal by the regulator;

4.3.1A.c

the Welsh Ministers, in the case of a refusal by a local authority for an area
in Wales.

4.4

Omit subsections (3) to (6).

5

5.1

Section 42 (appeal and statement of case to High Court in certain cases) is
amended as follows.

5.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

5.2.A1

Where the Secretary of State gives a decision on an application for a
direction under section 8, any of the following may appeal to the High Court
against the decision on a point of law—

5.2.A1.a

the applicant;

5.2.A1.b

the local authority;

5.2.A1.c

the registered building control approver.

5.3

In subsection (1)—

5.3.a

for “Secretary of State gives” substitute  “Welsh Ministers give” ;

5.3.b

for paragraph (b) (not including the “or” at the end) substitute—

5.3.b.b

on an appeal under section 50,

.

5.4

In subsection (2) for paragraph (b) substitute—

5.4.b

as regards an appeal under section 50, the person on whose application the
appeal was made,

.

5.5

In subsection (3)—

5.5.a

omit “, reference”;

5.5.b

after “subsection” insert  “ (A1)  or” ;

5.5.c

in paragraph (a) for “Secretary of State” substitute  “appropriate national
authority” .

5.6

In subsection (4) for “Secretary of State”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “appropriate national authority” .

5.7

Omit subsection (7).

6

Omit section 43 (procedure on appeal to Secretary of State on certain
matters).

7

After that section insert—

######### Appeals under sections 20, 39 and 50: England

7.43A

7.43A.1

This section applies to an appeal to the regulator or the tribunal made under
section 20(5), 39 or 50(2).

7.43A.2

On determining the appeal, the regulator or the tribunal may give any
directions it considers appropriate for giving effect to its determination.

7.43A.3

Where the appeal is determined by the regulator, a relevant person may appeal
to the tribunal against the regulator’s decision (and subsection  (2)  applies
in relation to this appeal).

7.43A.4

“ Relevant person ” means—

7.43A.4.a

the appellant;

7.43A.4.b

the local authority or registered building control approver.

8

In section 50 (plans certificates) for subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

8.2

If a registered building control approver refuses to give a plans certificate
on being asked to do so, the person intending to carry out the work may appeal
to—

8.2.a

the regulator, in the case of work to be carried out in England;

8.2.b

the Welsh Ministers, in the case of work to be carried out in Wales.

##### Transfer from magistrates’ court to the tribunal: England

9

In the following provisions for “a magistrates’ court” substitute  “the
appropriate court or tribunal” —

9.a

section 19(4) (use of short-lived materials);

9.b

section 21 (3) ,  (4)  and  (6)  (provision of drainage);

9.c

section 22 (4)  (drainage of buildings in combination);

9.d

section 24 (2)  (provision of exits etc);

9.e

section 25 (2)  and  (5)  (provision of water supply);

9.f

section 33(6) (tests for conformity with building regulations);

9.g

section 36 (3)  (period for compliance with section 36 notice);

9.h

section 40 (1)  (appeal against section 36 notice);

9.i

section 55(1) (appeal against rejection of certain notices);

9.j

section 62 (2)  (disconnection of drain);

9.k

section 68 (3)  (erection of public conveniences);

9.l

section 73 (2)  (raising of chimney);

9.m

section 75 (2) , in both places it occurs, and section 75 (3)  (cellars etc
below subsoil);

9.n

section 77 (1) , in both places it occurs (dangerous buildings);

9.o

section 78(7)(a) (dangerous buildings - emergency measures);

9.p

section 85 (3)  (maintenance of entrances to courtyards);

9.q

section 98 (power to require occupier to permit work);

9.r

section 102(1) (appeal against notice requiring works);

9.s

section 103 (3)  (notification requirement as regards right of appeal);

9.t

in  Schedule 2 ,  paragraph 3 (3)  (application under section 8).

10

In section 7 (2) (b) after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

11

In section 25 (5)  after “the court”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
tribunal” .

12

In section 33(6) after “the court”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
tribunal” .

13

In section 37(3) for “a court” substitute  “the appropriate court or tribunal”
.

14

In section 40 after “the court”, in each place it occurs, insert  “or
tribunal” .

15

In section 55(2) after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

16

In section 62 (2)  after “the court” insert  “or tribunal” .

17

In section 64(5)(b) after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

18

In section 70 (4) (b)  after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

19

In section 75 (2)  after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

20

In section 77 (1)  after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

21

In section 78(7)(b) after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

22

In section 83 (3) (b)  after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

23

In section 98—

23.a

for “a complaint” substitute  “an application or (as the case may be)
complaint” ;

23.b

after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

24

In section 102(2), (3) and (4) after “court”, in each place it occurs, insert
“or tribunal” .

25

25.1

Section 103 is amended as follows.

25.2

After subsection (1) insert—

25.2.1A

Subsections (2) and (3) apply—

25.2.1A.a

where this Act provides for an appeal to the tribunal against a requirement,
refusal or other decision of a relevant authority, and

25.2.1A.b

in relation to an appeal of a kind mentioned in subsection (1)(a).

25.3

In subsection (2)—

25.3.a

for “local” substitute  “relevant” ;

25.3.b

after “making of the” insert  “application or” .

25.4

In subsection (3) “local” substitute “relevant”.

25.5

After that subsection insert—

25.5.4

In this section “ relevant authority ” means a local authority or the
regulator.

25.6

In the heading for “magistrates’ court” substitute  “appropriate court or
tribunal” .

26

In section 104 after “court”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or tribunal”
.

27

In section 105 after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

28

In  Schedule 2  in  paragraph 2 (b) after “court” insert  “or tribunal” .

##### Enforcement

29

After section 105 insert—

######### Enforcement of decisions of the First-tier and Upper Tribunal

29.105A

29.105A.1

A decision of the First-tier Tribunal or Upper Tribunal made under or in
connection with this Act is enforceable with the permission of the county
court in the same way as an order of that court.

29.105A.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to a decision of the First-tier Tribunal or
Upper Tribunal ordering the payment of a sum (as to which see section 27 of
the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (enforcement)).

##### Appeal: local authority decision not to consider application etc

30

After section 101 insert—

######### Appeal against refusal to consider application etc

########## Appeal: refusal to consider application etc on ground is higher-risk building work

30.101A

30.101A.1

This section applies where—

30.101A.1.a

a local authority for an area in England refuses to consider an application
for building control approval, or

30.101A.1.b

a local authority refuses to consider an initial notice (within the meaning of
section 47) or an amendment notice (within the meaning of section 51A),

on the ground that all or part of the work to which the application or notice
relates is higher-risk building work.

30.101A.2

The person intending to carry out the work may appeal to the appropriate
national authority, before the end of the prescribed period, on the ground
that none of the work is higher-risk building work.

30.101A.3

Building regulations may make provision about appeals under this section,
including in particular provision—

30.101A.3.a

about the making of an appeal;

30.101A.3.b

requiring an appellant to notify the local authority of the making of an
appeal;

30.101A.3.c

imposing duties on the local authority in cases where an appeal is made;

30.101A.3.d

for and in connection with the appropriate national authority appointing a
person to determine the appeal (including provision conferring functions on
that person and providing that their decision is treated as the decision of
the appropriate national authority);

30.101A.3.e

about the procedure to be adopted in connection with the determination of the
appeal.

30.101A.4

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection (3)(a) includes
provision about—

30.101A.4.a

the form and content of a notice of appeal;

30.101A.4.b

the information and documents that are to accompany a notice of appeal;

30.101A.4.c

the way in which a notice of appeal, and anything that is to accompany it, is
to be given.

30.101A.5

The decision made on the appeal is final (subject to subsection  (6) ).

30.101A.6

The appellant or the local authority may, before the end of the prescribed
period and with the permission of the High Court, appeal to the High Court
against the decision of the appropriate national authority on a point of law.

Special measures

Section 102

##### Introductory

1

In this Schedule—

“ special measures manager ” means a person appointed under paragraph  4 ; “
special measures order ” means an order under paragraph  4 .

##### Notification by regulator before applying for special measures order

2

2.1

This paragraph applies where the regulator proposes to make an application
under paragraph  4  for a special measures order in relation to an occupied
higher-risk building.

2.2

The regulator must give a notice (an “initial notice”) of the proposal to—

2.2.a

each accountable person for the building,

2.2.b

each resident of the building who is aged 16 or over,

2.2.c

each owner of a residential unit in the building,

2.2.d

any managing agent for the building or any relevant part of the building,

2.2.e

any recognised tenants’ association for the building or any part of the
building,

2.2.f

any manager appointed under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 in
relation to the building or any part of the building,

2.2.g

the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building is situated,

2.2.h

the local housing authority for the area in which the building is situated,

2.2.i

where any accountable person for the building is a registered provider of
social housing, the Regulator of Social Housing, and

2.2.j

where any part of the building contains premises occupied for the purposes of
a business, each responsible person (within the meaning of article 3 of the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005) in relation to those premises.

2.3

The initial notice must—

2.3.a

state that the regulator proposes to make an application for a special
measures order in relation to the building,

2.3.b

specify the address of the building,

2.3.c

specify the reasons for the proposed application,

2.3.d

specify the terms of the order that the regulator proposes to invite the
tribunal to make (including the name and address of the person the regulator
proposes to be the special measures manager for the building),

2.3.e

specify a period in which recipients of the notice may make representations in
response to the notice, and

2.3.f

state that any representations must be in writing to such postal or email
address as is specified in the notice.

2.4

Where the terms specified by virtue of sub-paragraph  (3) (d)  include a term
requiring an accountable person for the building to make payments to the
special measures manager for the building, the regulator must give to the
persons mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  a financial management proposal with
the initial notice.

2.5

After the end of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph  (3) (e)  the regulator
must—

2.5.a

decide whether to make the application, and

2.5.b

give a notice (a “final notice”) of its decision to the persons mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.6

The final notice must—

2.6.a

state whether or not the regulator intends to make the application,

2.6.b

specify the reasons for reaching that decision, and

2.6.c

if the regulator intends to make the application, specify the terms of the
order that the regulator intends to invite the tribunal to make (including the
name and address of the person the regulator proposes to be the special
measures manager for the building).

2.7

Where the terms specified by virtue of sub-paragraph  (6) (c)  include a term
requiring an accountable person for the building to make payments to the
special measures manager for the building, the regulator must give to the
persons mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  a financial management proposal with
the final notice.

2.8

The regulator must comply with sub-paragraphs  (5)  to  (7)  before making the
application.

2.9

The duty under sub-paragraph  (2) ,  (4) , (5)(b) or  (7)  does not apply in
relation to a person mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  if the regulator—

2.9.a

is not aware of the person, and

2.9.b

has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain the identity of the persons
mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

2.10

In this paragraph—

“ financial management proposal ” has the meaning given by paragraph  3 ; “
relevant part ”, in relation to a higher-risk building, means any part of the
building except premises occupied for the purposes of a business.

2.11

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to
notices under this paragraph, including in particular provision about—

2.11.a

the form of the notice;

2.11.b

the way in which the notice must be given.

2.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in sub-paragraph  (2)
.

##### Meaning of “financial management proposal”

3

3.1

In this Schedule “ financial management proposal ”, in relation to a higher-
risk building, means a document setting out—

3.1.a

an estimate of the relevant expenses the regulator expects a special measures
manager for the building to incur (including a reasonable amount in respect of
contingencies),

3.1.b

the measures to which the relevant expenses relate, and

3.1.c

if there is more than one accountable person for the building—

3.1.c.i

the regulator's proposed apportionment of the relevant expenses between them,
and

3.1.c.ii

the reasons for that proposal (including any calculation giving rise to it).

3.2

In this Schedule “ relevant expenses ” means expenses incurred by the special
measures manager for a higher-risk building in connection with the exercise of
their functions in relation to the building.

##### Special measures order

4

4.1

The regulator may apply to the tribunal for an order under this paragraph in
relation to an occupied higher-risk building (a “special measures order”).

4.2

A special measures order is an order appointing a person to be the manager (a
“special measures manager”) for the building to carry out the functions of all
accountable persons for the building under, or under regulations made under,
this Part.

4.3

A special measures order may also appoint the manager to carry out any
function as a receiver in relation to commonhold building safety assessments.

4.4

The tribunal may make a special measures order if satisfied that there has
been a serious failure, or a failure on two or more occasions, by an
accountable person for the building to comply with a duty imposed on that
person under, or under regulations made under, this Part.

4.5

A special measures order may make provision with respect to—

4.5.a

payments to be made by an accountable person for the building to the special
measures manager in connection with relevant expenses incurred, or to be
incurred, by the manager,

4.5.b

any other matter relating to the exercise of the manager’s functions, and

4.5.c

any incidental or ancillary matter.

4.6

A special measures order may not make the provision mentioned in sub-paragraph
(5)(a) in relation to a higher-risk building on commonhold land.

4.7

A special measures order continues in force until it is discharged.

4.8

In this Schedule “ commonhold building safety assessment ” means income raised
from commonhold unit-holders by virtue of section 38A of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002.

##### Special measures order: supplementary

5

5.1

This paragraph applies where a special measures order is made in relation to a
higher-risk building.

5.2

While the order is in force any function of an accountable person for the
building under, or under regulations made under, this Part is to be treated as
a function of the special measures manager for the building, except any
function relating to—

5.2.a

the making of an application to the tribunal, or

5.2.b

the making of an appeal to the tribunal.

5.3

Any compliance notice given under section 99 relating to the building ceases
to have effect (but this does not affect any liability incurred as a result of
a contravention of a compliance notice occurring before the making of the
order).

##### Payments received by special measures manager to be held on trust

6

6.1

This paragraph applies where a special measures order relating to a higher-
risk building requires one or more accountable persons for the building to
make payments to the special measures manager for the building.

6.2

The manager must hold the payments (together with any income accruing on those
payments) as either—

6.2.a

a single trust fund, or

6.2.b

in two or more separate trust funds.

6.3

The manager must hold any trust fund—

6.3.a

on trust to defray relevant expenses, and

6.3.b

subject to that, on trust for the accountable person or persons for the
building for the time being.

6.4

The accountable person or persons for the building for the time being are to
be treated as entitled by virtue of sub-paragraph (3)(b) to—

6.4.a

if there is one accountable person for the building, the residue of the fund
or funds;

6.4.b

otherwise, to such shares in that residue as the accountable persons may agree
in writing or (in default of agreement) as the tribunal may direct.

6.5

An application for a direction under sub-paragraph (4)(b) may be made by—

6.5.a

the regulator,

6.5.b

an accountable person for the building, or

6.5.c

the manager.

##### Effect of special measures order on relevant contracts and legal proceedings

7

7.1

Sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (6)  apply while a special measures order relating
to a higher-risk building is in force.

7.2

A relevant contract has effect as if relevant rights and liabilities of an
accountable person for the building arising under the contract were rights and
liabilities of the special measures manager for the building.

7.3

A contract is a “relevant contract” if—

7.3.a

it is effective on the date the special measures order is made,

7.3.b

one of the parties to it is an accountable person for the building,

7.3.c

one or more rights or liabilities of that person under the contract are
relevant rights or liabilities,

7.3.d

it is specified for the purposes of this sub-paragraph in the special measures
order or falls within a description of contracts so specified, and

7.3.e

the manager gives notice in writing to the parties to it stating that sub-
paragraph  (2)  is to apply to it.

7.4

A right or liability of an accountable person for the building under a
relevant contract is a “relevant right or liability” if it relates to a
function of that person under, or under regulations made under, this Part in
relation to the building.

7.5

The notice under sub-paragraph  (3) (e)  must state which rights or
liabilities under the contract are relevant rights or liabilities.

7.6

The special measures manager for the building may bring, continue or defend a
relevant cause of action.

7.7

A cause of action is a “relevant cause of action” if—

7.7.a

it accrued to or against an accountable person for the building before the
date the special measures order was made,

7.7.b

it relates to a function of that person under, or under regulations made
under, this Part in relation to the building,

7.7.c

it is specified for the purposes of this sub-paragraph in the special measures
order or falls within a description of causes of action so specified, and

7.7.d

the manager gives notice in writing to any person the manager considers would
have an interest in the cause of action that sub-paragraph  (6)  is to apply
to it.

7.8

Where, by virtue of this paragraph, the special measures manager for the
building is subject to a liability to pay damages in respect of anything done
(or not done) before the date of their appointment by or on behalf of an
accountable person for the building, that person is liable to reimburse to the
manager an amount equal to the amount of damages paid by the manager.

##### Special measures orders and orders under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987

8

8.1

Sub-paragraph (2) applies where—

8.1.a

the tribunal makes a special measures order in relation to a higher-risk
building, and

8.1.b

an order under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 appointing a
manager in relation to that building is in force (a “section 24 order”).

8.2

The tribunal may amend the section 24 order so as to ensure that the functions
to be carried out by virtue of that order do not include any function that the
special measures order provides is to be carried out by the special measures
manager.

8.3

In section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987, after subsection (2B)
insert—

8.3.2C

Where a special measures order relating to the building is in force, an order
under this section may not provide for a manager to carry out a function which
the special measures order provides is to be carried out by the special
measures manager for the building.

8.3.2D

In this section—

“ special measures manager ” means a person appointed under paragraph 4 of
Schedule 7 to the Building Safety Act 2022; “ special measures order ” means
an order under paragraph 4 of Schedule 7 to the Building Safety Act 2022.

9

9.1

The Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 is amended as follows.

9.2

In section 21(2) after “subsection (3)” insert  “and section 24ZA” .

9.3

After section 24 insert—

########### Application for appointment of manager by special measures manager

9.3.24ZA

9.3.24ZA.1

A special measures manager for an occupied higher-risk building may apply to
the appropriate tribunal for an order under section 24 (as modified by
subsection (4)) appointing a manager to act in relation to premises to which
this section applies.

9.3.24ZA.2

This section applies to premises consisting of the whole or part of the
higher-risk building if the building or part contains two or more flats.

9.3.24ZA.3

Section 22 applies in relation to such an application as if—

9.3.24ZA.3.a

for subsection (1) there were substituted—

9.3.24ZA.3.a.1

Before an application for an order under section 24 is made in respect of any
premises to which section 24ZA applies by a special measures manager for an
occupied higher-risk building, a notice under this section must (subject to
subsection (3)) be served by the special measures manager on—

9.3.24ZA.3.a.1.a

the landlord;

9.3.24ZA.3.a.1.b

any person (other than the landlord) by whom obligations relating to the
management of the premises or any part of them are owed to tenants of flats
contained in those premises under a tenancy;

9.3.24ZA.3.a.1.c

each accountable person for the higher-risk building.

;

9.3.24ZA.3.b

for subsection (2)(a) there were substituted—

9.3.24ZA.3.b.a

specify the special measures manager’s name and an address in England and
Wales at which any person on whom the notice is served may serve notices,
including notices in proceedings, on the special measures manager in
connection with this Part;

;

9.3.24ZA.3.c

in subsection (2)(b)—

9.3.24ZA.3.c.i

for “tenant” there were substituted  “special measures manager” ;

9.3.24ZA.3.c.ii

for “this Part” there were substituted  “section 24ZA” ;

9.3.24ZA.3.d

in subsection (2)(c) for “tenant” there were substituted  “special measures
manager” .

9.3.24ZA.4

Section 24 applies in relation to such an application as if—

9.3.24ZA.4.a

in subsection (1) for “this Part” there were substituted  “section 24ZA” ;

9.3.24ZA.4.b

for subsection (2) there were substituted—

9.3.24ZA.4.b.2

The appropriate tribunal may only make an order under this section where it is
satisfied—

9.3.24ZA.4.b.2.a

that—

9.3.24ZA.4.b.2.a.i

the relevant person is in breach of any obligation owed by the person to the
special measures manager by virtue of a special measures order, and

9.3.24ZA.4.b.2.a.ii

it is just and convenient to make the order in all the circumstances of the
case; or

9.3.24ZA.4.b.2.b

that other circumstances exist which make it just and convenient for the order
to be made.

;

9.3.24ZA.4.c

subsections (2A), (2B) and (10) were omitted.

9.3.24ZA.5

In this section “ special measures manager ” has the meaning given by section
24(2D).

##### Provision of financial assistance by regulator

10

10.1

The regulator may give financial assistance to the special measures manager
for a higher-risk building by way of loans or grants.

10.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to
financial assistance given under this paragraph, including in particular
provision about—

10.2.a

the circumstances in which financial assistance may be given;

10.2.b

the kind of financial assistance that may be given;

10.2.c

conditions that may or must be attached to any financial assistance (including
conditions as to repayment).

10.3

In this paragraph “ special measures manager ”, in relation to a higher-risk
building, includes the person who was the special measures manager for that
building immediately before the special measures order relating to the
building was discharged.

##### Special measures order: further directions

11

11.1

This paragraph applies while a special measures order relating to a higher-
risk building is in force.

11.2

On an application by a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (3) the tribunal may
give directions to the special measures manager for the building or any other
person with respect to—

11.2.a

any matter relating to the exercise of the manager’s functions, and

11.2.b

any incidental or ancillary matter.

11.3

The persons are—

11.3.a

the regulator,

11.3.b

an accountable person for the building, or

11.3.c

the manager.

##### Regulator to keep certain matters under review

12

12.1

This paragraph applies while a special measures order relating to a higher-
risk building is in force.

12.2

The regulator must, from time to time (and at least once every 12 months),
review the following matters—

12.2.a

the measures taken by the special measures manager in exercising the manager’s
functions;

12.2.b

the expenses incurred by the manager in connection with taking those measures;

12.2.c

any payments made by accountable persons for the building to the manager in
respect of any of those expenses;

12.2.d

any amounts received by the manager by way of commonhold building safety
assessments in relation to the building.

12.3

If, on such a review, the regulator considers that any term of the order
should be varied, it must make such application under paragraph 14 as it
considers appropriate.

##### Notification by regulator before applying to vary special measures order

13

13.1

This paragraph applies where the regulator proposes to make an application
under paragraph 14 to vary a special measures order relating to a higher-risk
building.

13.2

The regulator must give a notice (an “initial notice”) of the proposal to—

13.2.a

each accountable person for the building,

13.2.b

each resident of the building who is aged 16 or over,

13.2.c

each owner of a residential unit in the building,

13.2.d

any managing agent for the building or any relevant part of the building,

13.2.e

any recognised tenants’ association for the building or any part of the
building,

13.2.f

any manager appointed under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act in
relation to the building or any part of the building,

13.2.g

the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building is situated,

13.2.h

the local housing authority for the area in which the building is situated,

13.2.i

where any accountable person for the building is a registered provider of
social housing, the Regulator of Social Housing, and

13.2.j

where any part of the building contains premises occupied for the purposes of
a business, each responsible person (within the meaning of article 3 of the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005) in relation to those premises.

13.3

The initial notice must—

13.3.a

state that the regulator proposes to make an application to vary the special
measures order specified in the notice,

13.3.b

specify the reasons for the proposed application,

13.3.c

specify the terms of the order that the regulator proposes to invite the
tribunal to make,

13.3.d

specify a period in which recipients of the notice may make representations in
response to the notice, and

13.3.e

state that any representations must be in writing to such postal or email
address as is specified in the notice.

13.4

After the end of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(d) the regulator
must—

13.4.a

decide whether to make the application, and

13.4.b

give a notice (a “final notice”) of its decision to the persons mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2).

13.5

The final notice must—

13.5.a

state whether or not the regulator intends to make the application,

13.5.b

specify the reasons for reaching that decision, and

13.5.c

if the regulator intends to make the application, specify the terms of the
order that the regulator intends to invite the tribunal to make.

13.6

The regulator must comply with sub-paragraphs (4) and (5) before making the
application.

13.7

The duty under sub-paragraph (2) or (4)(b) does not apply in relation to a
person mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) if the regulator—

13.7.a

is not aware of the person, and

13.7.b

has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain the identity of the persons
mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

13.8

In this paragraph “ relevant part ”, in relation to a higher-risk building,
has the meaning given by paragraph 2(10).

13.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to
notices under this paragraph, including in particular provision about—

13.9.a

the form of the notice;

13.9.b

the way in which the notice must be given.

13.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in sub-paragraph (2).

##### Variation or discharge of special measures order

14

14.1

The tribunal may vary or discharge a special measures order relating to a
higher-risk building on an application by—

14.1.a

the regulator,

14.1.b

an accountable person for the building, or

14.1.c

the special measures manager for the building.

14.2

An application to vary a special measures order so as to change the identity
of the manager may only be made by the regulator.

14.3

In considering whether to vary or discharge an order the tribunal must have
regard to—

14.3.a

the likelihood of variation or discharge of the order resulting in a
recurrence of the circumstances which led to the order being made, and

14.3.b

whether it is just and convenient in all the circumstances to vary or
discharge the order.

14.4

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply on an application where each person
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) agrees to the application (and for this purpose
where there is more than one accountable person each accountable person must
agree).

14.5

Sub-paragraph (4) does not require the agreement of the special measures
manager where that person lacks capacity to agree to the application.

14.6

Where the order is varied or discharged, the tribunal may give directions to
any person with respect to—

14.6.a

any matter relating to the variation or discharge, and

14.6.b

any incidental or ancillary matter.

14.7

Where the order is discharged the tribunal must direct the special measures
manager to—

14.7.a

prepare a reconciliation account, and

14.7.b

give a copy of the account to—

14.7.b.i

the regulator, and

14.7.b.ii

each accountable person for the building.

14.8

The tribunal may give a direction under sub-paragraph (6)(a) (at the time the
order is discharged or after that time) for the making of a payment—

14.8.a

by an accountable person for the building to the special measures manager, or

14.8.b

by the special measures manager to an accountable person for the building.

14.9

In this paragraph—

“ reconciliation account ” means a document— setting out, in relation to the
period during which the special measures order was in force, a comparison
between— the receipts and expenses of the manager in connection with the
exercise of their functions in relation to the building, and the credits to,
and debits from, all relevant accounts, and containing a statement explaining
any differences; “ relevant account ” means an account in which any of the
following are (or have been) held— payments made by an accountable person for
the building to the manager; amounts received by the manager by way of
commonhold building safety assessments in relation to the building.

14.10

In this paragraph “ special measures manager ”, in relation to a higher-risk
building, includes the person who was the special measures manager for that
building immediately before the special measures order relating to the
building was discharged.

##### Notifications about special measures order

15

15.1

The regulator must take all reasonable steps to notify the persons mentioned
in sub-paragraph  (2)  of the making, variation or discharge of a special
measures order in relation to a higher-risk building.

15.2

The persons are—

15.2.a

each accountable person for the building,

15.2.b

each resident of the building who is aged 16 or over,

15.2.c

each owner of a residential unit in the building,

15.2.d

any managing agent for the building or any relevant part of the building,

15.2.e

any recognised tenants’ association for the building or any part of the
building,

15.2.f

any manager appointed under section 24 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987 in
relation to the building or any part of the building,

15.2.g

the fire and rescue authority for the area in which the building is situated,

15.2.h

the local housing authority for the area in which the building is situated,

15.2.i

where any accountable person for the building is a registered provider of
social housing, the Regulator of Social Housing, and

15.2.j

where any part of the building contains premises occupied for the purposes of
a business, each responsible person (within the meaning of article 3 of the
Regulatory Reform (Fire Safety) Order 2005) in relation to those premises.

15.3

In this paragraph “ relevant part ”, in relation to a higher-risk building,
has the meaning given by paragraph  2 (10) .

15.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the list in sub-paragraph  (2)
.

##### Special measures order: change in accountable person etc

16

16.1

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) apply where at any time (“ the relevant time ”)
during which a special measures order relating to a higher-risk building is in
force, an accountable person for the building (“the outgoing person”) ceases
to be responsible for all or any part of the building (“the relevant part of
the building”).

16.2

From the relevant time the special measures order ceases to apply to the
outgoing person in relation to the relevant part of the building.

16.3

From the relevant time the special measures order applies to any person who,
immediately after the relevant time—

16.3.a

is an accountable person for the building, and

16.3.b

is responsible for the relevant part of the building or any part of the
relevant part,

as it applied to the outgoing person in relation to the relevant part or part
of the relevant part (as the case may be) immediately before the relevant
time.

16.4

But sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) do not affect any liability under the order to
which the outgoing person became subject before the relevant time.

16.5

Where an enactment requires interests, charges or other obligations affecting
land to be registered, sub-paragraph (3) has effect whether or not the special
measures order is registered.

16.6

Nothing in this paragraph affects the powers of the tribunal under paragraph
14 (power to vary special measures order etc).

##### Interpretation

17

In this Schedule—

“ commonhold building safety assessment ” has the meaning given by paragraph
4 ; “ local housing authority ” has the meaning given by section 261 of the
Housing Act 2004; “ managing agent ”: for the purposes of this Schedule a
person (A) is a managing agent for any part of a building if— A has been
appointed to discharge the obligations of a person (B) relating to the
management by B of that part of the building, and B has a legal estate in that
part of the building which is— an estate in fee simple absolute in possession,
or; a term of years absolute granted for a term of more than 21 years from the
date of the grant; “ recognised tenants association ” has the meaning given by
section 29 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985; “ relevant expenses ” has the
meaning given by paragraph  3 ; “ special measures manager ” has the meaning
given by paragraph  1 ; “ special measures order ” has the meaning given by
paragraph  1 .

Remediation costs under qualifying leases etc

Section 122

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In  this Schedule —

“ associated ”: see section 121; ... “ joint venture ” includes a partnership
(as defined by section 121); “ prescribed ” means prescribed by regulations
made by the Secretary of State; “ qualifying lease ”: see section 119; “ the
qualifying time ” has the same meaning as in section 119; “ relevant building
”: see section 117; “ relevant defect ”: see section 120; “ relevant measure
”, in relation to a relevant defect, means— a measure taken to remedy the
relevant defect, or a relevant step taken in relation to the relevant defect;
“ relevant step ”: see section 120; ... “ service charge ” has the meaning
given by section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985.

1.2

The definition of “service charge” applies in relation to a lease of premises
that do not include a dwelling as it applies in relation to a lease of a
dwelling.

##### No service charge payable for defect for which landlord or associate responsible

2

2.1

This paragraph  applies in relation to a lease of any premises in a relevant
building.

2.2

No service charge is payable under the lease in respect of a relevant measure
relating to a relevant defect if a relevant landlord—

2.2.a

is responsible for the relevant defect, or

2.2.b

is associated with a person responsible for a relevant defect.

2.3

For the purposes of  this paragraph  a person is “responsible for” a relevant
defect if—

2.3.a

in the case of an initial defect, the person was, or was in a joint venture
with, the developer or undertook or commissioned works relating to the defect;

2.3.b

in any other case, the person undertook or commissioned works relating to the
defect.

2.4

In  this paragraph —

“ developer ” means a person who undertook or commissioned the construction or
conversion of the building (or part of the building) with a view to granting
or disposing of interests in the building or parts of it; “ initial defect ”
means a defect which is a relevant defect by virtue of section 120 (3) (a) ; “
relevant landlord ” means the landlord under the lease at the qualifying time
or any superior landlord at that time.

##### No service charge payable if landlord meets contribution condition

3

3.1

No service charge is payable under a qualifying lease in respect of a relevant
measure relating to any relevant defect if the landlord under the lease at the
qualifying time (“the relevant landlord”) met the contribution condition.

3.2

The contribution condition is that the landlord group’s net worth at the
qualifying time was more than N x £2,000,000,

where N is the number of relevant buildings within sub-paragraph  (3) .

3.3

A relevant building is within this sub-paragraph if a member of the landlord
group was, at the qualifying time, a landlord under a lease of the relevant
building or any part of it.

3.4

For the purposes of  this paragraph —

3.4.a

“ the landlord group ” means the relevant landlord and any person associated
with the relevant landlord;

3.4.b

the net worth of the landlord group at the qualifying time is to be determined
in accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State.

3.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend the amount for the time being
specified in sub-paragraph  (2) .

3.6

This paragraph  does not apply if, at the qualifying time, the relevant
landlord was—

3.6.a

a private registered provider of social housing (as to which see section 80 of
the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008),

3.6.b

a local authority (as defined by section 30), or

3.6.c

a prescribed person.

##### No service charge payable where lease below certain value

4

4.1

No service charge is payable under a qualifying lease in respect of a relevant
measure relating to any relevant defect if the value of the qualifying lease
at the qualifying time was less than—

4.1.a

£325,000, if the premises demised by the qualifying lease are in Greater
London;

4.1.b

£175,000, in any other case.

4.2

For the purposes of  this paragraph  the value of a qualifying lease at the
qualifying time is its value determined in accordance with  paragraph 6  and
regulations made under it.

##### Limit on service charge in other cases

5

5.1

A service charge which would otherwise be payable under a qualifying lease in
respect of a relevant measure relating to any relevant defect is payable only
if (and so far as) the sum of—

5.1.a

the amount of the service charge, and

5.1.b

the total amount of relevant service charges which fell due before the service
charge fell due,

does not exceed the permitted maximum.

5.2

In  this paragraph  “ relevant service charge ” means a service charge under
the lease in respect of a relevant measure relating to any relevant defect
that—

5.2.a

fell due in the pre-commencement period, or

5.2.b

falls due after commencement.

5.3

In  sub-paragraph (2)  “ the pre-commencement period ” means the period—

5.3.a

beginning 5 years before commencement or, if later, on the day the relevant
person became the tenant under the qualifying lease, and

5.3.b

ending with commencement.

“ The relevant person ” means the person who was the tenant under the
qualifying lease at commencement.

5.4

In  this paragraph —

“ commencement ” means the time  this paragraph  comes into force; “ the
permitted maximum ”: see  paragraph 6 .

##### 
                     

6

6.1

In  paragraph 5  “ the permitted maximum ”, in relation to a qualifying lease,
has the following meaning.

6.2

The permitted maximum is (subject to  sub-paragraphs (3)  to  (5) )—

6.2.a

if the premises demised by the qualifying lease are in Greater London,
£15,000;

6.2.b

otherwise, £10,000.

6.3

Where the value of the qualifying lease at the qualifying time exceeded
£1,000,000 but did not exceed £2,000,000, the permitted maximum is £50,000.

6.4

Where the value of the qualifying lease at the qualifying time exceeded
£2,000,000, the permitted maximum is £100,000.

6.5

Where the qualifying lease is a shared ownership lease and the tenant’s total
share was less than 100% at the qualifying time—

6.5.a

the value of the qualifying lease at that time is to be determined as if the
tenant’s total share at that time was 100%;

6.5.b

the permitted maximum is the tenant’s total share (as at that time) of what
would otherwise be the permitted maximum.

6.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the
determination of the value of a qualifying lease for the purposes of
paragraph 4  and  this paragraph .

6.7

The regulations may in particular provide that, except in prescribed cases,
the value of a qualifying lease at the qualifying time is to be determined by—

6.7.a

ascertaining the consideration given on the latest disposal of the qualifying
lease on the open market to have been made before that time, and

6.7.b

if that disposal occurred before 2022, uprating the consideration in
accordance with the regulations.

6.8

In  this paragraph  “shared ownership lease” and “total share” have the
meaning given by section 7 of the Leasehold Reform, Housing and Urban
Development Act 1993.

##### Annual limit on service charges

7

7.1

A relevant service charge which would otherwise be payable under a qualifying
lease is payable only if (and so far as) the sum of—

7.1.a

the amount of the service charge, and

7.1.b

the total amount of relevant service charges which fell due in the period of
12 months ending with the day on which the service charge fell due,

does not exceed one tenth of the permitted maximum.

7.2

In  this paragraph —.

“ the permitted maximum ” means the permitted maximum as defined by  paragraph
6  in relation to the lease; “ relevant service charge ” means a service
charge under a qualifying lease in respect of a relevant measure relating to
any relevant defect.

##### No service charge payable for cladding remediation

8

8.1

No service charge is payable under a qualifying lease in respect of cladding
remediation.

8.2

In  this paragraph  “ cladding remediation ” means the removal or replacement
of any part of a cladding system that—

8.2.a

forms the outer wall of an external wall system, and

8.2.b

is unsafe.

##### No service charge payable for legal or professional services relating to liability for relevant defects

9

9.1

No service charge is payable under a qualifying lease in respect of legal or
other professional services relating to the liability (or potential liability)
of any person incurred as a result of a relevant defect.

9.1A

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to the extent that the service charge is
payable to a management company in respect of legal or other professional
services provided to the company in connection with an application or possible
application by the company for or relating to a remediation contribution order
under section 124.

9.2

In  this paragraph  the reference to services includes services provided in
connection with—

9.2.a

obtaining legal advice,

9.2.b

any proceedings before a court or tribunal,

9.2.c

arbitration, or

9.2.d

mediation.

9.3

In sub-paragraph (1A) “ management company ” means—

9.3.a

a resident management company, or

9.3.b

an RTM company within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Commonhold and
Leasehold Reform Act 2002 (right to manage).

9.4

“ Resident management company ” means a body corporate which is party to a
lease of a building where—

9.4.a

the body corporate is limited by guarantee and the members of that body are
tenants under leases of dwellings in the building (“leaseholders”), or

9.4.b

the majority of the shares of the body corporate are held by leaseholders.

##### Paragraphs 

10

10.1

This paragraph  supplements paragraphs  2  to  4 ,  8  and  9  (the “relevant
paragraphs”).

10.2

Where a relevant paragraph provides that no service charge is payable under a
lease in respect of a thing—

10.2.a

no costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of that thing (or in respect of
that thing and anything else)—

10.2.a.i

are to be regarded for the purposes of the relevant provisions as relevant
costs to be taken into account in determining the amount of a service charge
payable under the lease, or

10.2.a.ii

are to be met from a relevant reserve fund;

10.2.b

any amount payable under the lease, or met from a relevant reserve fund, is
limited accordingly (and any necessary adjustment must be made by repayment,
reduction of subsequent charges or otherwise).

10.3

In  this paragraph —

“ the relevant provisions ” means sections 18 to 30 of the Landlord and Tenant
Act 1985 (service charges) and section 42 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1987
(service charge contributions to be held on trust); “ relevant reserve fund ”
means— a trust fund within the meaning of section 42 of the Landlord and
Tenant Act 1987, an express trust of a kind mentioned in subsection (9) of
that section, comprising payments made by the tenant under the lease and
others, or any other fund comprising payments made by the tenant under the
lease and others, and held for the purposes of meeting costs incurred or to be
incurred in respect of the relevant building in question or any part of it (or
in respect of that building or part and anything else).

10.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations modify the application of  this
paragraph  as it applies in relation to a lease of premises that do not
include a dwelling.

##### No increase in service charge for other tenants

11

Where—

11.a

an amount (“ the original amount ”) would, apart from  this Schedule , be
payable by a tenant under a lease of premises in a relevant building, and

11.b

a greater amount would (apart from  this paragraph ) be payable under the
lease as a result of  this Schedule ,

the lease has effect as if the amount payable were the original amount.

##### Recovery of service charge amounts from landlords

12

12.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with the recovery, from a prescribed relevant landlord, of any amount that is
not recoverable under a lease as a result of  this Schedule .

12.2

In  this paragraph  “ relevant landlord ”, in relation to a lease, means the
landlord under the lease or any superior landlord.

##### Presumption: qualifying lease

13

13.1

This paragraph  applies in relation to a lease that meets the conditions in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  of section 119 (2) .

13.2

The lease is to be treated for the purposes of  this Schedule  as a qualifying
lease unless—

13.2.a

the landlord under the lease has taken all reasonable steps (and any
prescribed steps) to obtain a qualifying lease certificate from a tenant under
the lease, and

13.2.b

no such certificate has been provided to the landlord.

13.3

In  this paragraph  “ qualifying lease certificate ” means a certificate,
complying with any prescribed requirements, that the condition in section 119
(2) (d)  was met in relation to the lease at the qualifying time.

13.4

The requirements that may be prescribed include requirements as to—

13.4.a

the information to be provided in the certificate,

13.4.b

the form of the certificate, and

13.4.c

the execution of the certificate.

##### Presumptions relating to landlord under qualifying lease

14

14.1

The person who was the landlord under a qualifying lease at the qualifying
time (“the relevant landlord”) is to be treated for the purposes of  this
Schedule  as having met the contribution condition (as defined by paragraph  3
) unless the landlord under the lease provides to the tenant under the lease a
certificate, complying with any prescribed requirements, that the relevant
landlord did not meet that condition.

14.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that (in some or all cases)
the condition in paragraph  2 (2)  is to be treated for the purposes of  this
Schedule  as met in relation to a lease to which paragraph  2  applies unless
the landlord under the lease provides to the tenant under the lease a
certificate that complies with any prescribed requirements.

14.3

The requirements that may be prescribed include requirements as to—

14.3.a

the information to be provided in the certificate,

14.3.b

the form of the certificate, and

14.3.c

the execution of the certificate.

##### Information from tenants

15

15.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring a tenant
under a qualifying lease to give prescribed information or documents to the
landlord under the lease or any superior landlord.

15.2

The regulations may provide that the information or documents are to be given
in a prescribed way.

##### Information from landlords

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision requiring a relevant
landlord to give prescribed information or documents to a relevant tenant or
other prescribed person.

16.2

Information or documents may be prescribed if they relate to any matter with
which  this Schedule  is concerned.

16.3

The regulations may require the information or documents to be given in a
prescribed way.

16.4

The regulations may provide that where a relevant landlord fails to comply
with the regulations, prescribed costs—

16.4.a

are not to be regarded as relevant costs to be taken into account in
determining the amount of a service charge payable under a relevant lease, and

16.4.b

must not be met from a relevant reserve fund.

16.5

The regulations may make provision for and in connection with an application
to the First-tier Tribunal for an order—

16.5.a

determining whether a relevant landlord has failed to comply with the
regulations, and

16.5.b

if so, requiring the relevant landlord to provide specified information or
documents to a specified person by a specified time.

“Specified” here means specified in the order.

16.6

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (5)  limits the effect of regulations made by virtue
of sub-paragraph  (4) .

16.7

Information or documents may be specified in an order under sub-paragraph  (5)
only if the regulations require them to be provided to the specified person.

16.8

In  this paragraph —

“ relevant costs ” has the meaning given by section 18 of the Landlord and
Tenant Act 1985 (and this applies in relation to a lease of premises that does
not include a dwelling as it applies in relation to a lease of a dwelling); “
relevant landlord ” means a landlord under a relevant lease; “ relevant lease
” means a lease of premises in a relevant building; “ relevant reserve fund ”
has the meaning given by paragraph  10 ; “ relevant tenant ” means a tenant
under a relevant lease.

17

In section 21 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 (service charge
information), in subsection (6A) (inserted by section 112), after “2022)”
insert  “or relevant buildings (as defined by section 117 of that Act)” .

##### Anti-avoidance

18

A covenant or agreement (whenever made) is void insofar as it purports to
exclude or limit any provision made under  this Schedule .

                 The new homes ombudsman scheme

Section 137 (1)

##### Appointment of the new homes ombudsman

1

The scheme must include provision about the appointment of the new homes
ombudsman.

##### Membership

2

2.1

The scheme must include provision about the procedure for becoming and
remaining a member of the scheme.

2.2

That provision may include—

2.2.a

a requirement to pay a fee;

2.2.b

a requirement to provide information;

2.2.c

a requirement to have internal procedures in place for the handling and
resolution of complaints about matters in relation to which complaints may be
made under the scheme.

2.3

If the scheme includes a requirement mentioned in  sub-paragraph (2) (c) , it
must also include a requirement to publish the procedures.

3

The scheme may provide for different categories of member and the provision
mentioned in  paragraph 2  (including provision about fees) may differ as
between such categories.

##### Fees

4

The fees payable by a member may be calculated by reference to the total of
the costs incurred, or to be incurred, in the operation of the scheme
(including costs unconnected with the member in question).

5

Where a scheme is maintained by a person other than—

5.a

the Secretary of State, or

5.b

a person acting on behalf of the Secretary of State,

fees may be set at a level such that the total of all fees payable by members
exceeds the total of the costs of operating the scheme.

##### Complaints under the scheme: subject matter and procedure

6

The scheme must include provision about—

6.a

the matters in relation to which complaints against members of the scheme may
be made under the scheme (which may include complaints about non-compliance
with a code of practice issued or approved under section 142), and

6.b

the procedure for making complaints under the scheme.

7

The provision mentioned in  paragraph 6 (b) —

7.a

must not include any requirement to pay a fee;

7.b

may differ as between different categories of member;

7.c

may include provision about the use of any internal procedures a member has in
place for the handling or resolution of complaints.

##### Complaints under the scheme: investigation and determination

8

8.1

The scheme must include provision about the investigation and determination by
the new homes ombudsman of complaints made under the scheme.

8.2

That provision must include provision—

8.2.a

requiring the new homes ombudsman, in determining a complaint, to have regard
to any code of practice issued or approved under section 142,

8.2.b

for the new homes ombudsman to require members of the scheme to provide
information, and

8.2.c

for the new homes ombudsman to require members of the scheme to provide
complainants whose complaints are determined to be well-founded with any one
or more of the forms of redress in  paragraph 9 .

9

The forms of redress are—

9.a

paying compensation;

9.b

making an apology;

9.c

providing an explanation;

9.d

taking such other action in the interests of the complainant as the new homes
ombudsman may specify.

##### Enforcement of determinations

10

10.1

The scheme must include provision about the enforcement of determinations made
by the new homes ombudsman.

10.2

That provision may include provision for the expulsion of a member from the
scheme (and the requirement in section 137 (1) (a)  is not to be read as
preventing the new homes ombudsman scheme from including such provision).

10.3

If provision described in  sub-paragraph (2)  is included in the scheme,
provision must also be made about the circumstances in which an expelled
member can rejoin the scheme.

##### Making of recommendations

11

11.1

The scheme must include provision about the making of improvement
recommendations by the new homes ombudsman where following the investigation
of a complaint the ombudsman identifies widespread or regular unacceptable
standards of conduct or standards of quality of work on the part of members of
the scheme.

11.2

“Improvement recommendations” are recommendations about changes that members
may make in order to improve standards of conduct or standards of quality of
work.

##### Predecessor schemes

12

The scheme must include provision about the acceptance and handling of
complaints transferred from a scheme previously available under section 136
but which is no longer available.

##### Complaints about the scheme

13

The scheme must include provision about how complaints about the operation of
the scheme may be made by—

13.a

members of the scheme, and

13.b

persons who have asked for a complaint to be investigated under the scheme.

##### Co-operation

14

14.1

The scheme may include provision about co-operation with persons who exercise
functions under other redress schemes and, in particular, provision about
arrangements for a person exercising functions under the scheme to do so
jointly with a person exercising functions under another redress scheme,
including for the making of joint determinations by the new homes ombudsman
and an independent person making determinations under another redress scheme.

14.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) , “ redress scheme ” has the same meaning as in section
137.

##### Provision of information

15

15.1

Where the scheme is maintained by a person other than the Secretary of State,
the scheme must include provision about the provision of information to the
Secretary of State, the Welsh Ministers, the Scottish Ministers and the
relevant Northern Ireland department.

15.2

In this paragraph, “ the relevant Northern Ireland department ” means the
Northern Ireland department designated for the purposes of this paragraph by
the First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly.

##### Reports

16

The scheme must include provision about the making of reports on the operation
of the scheme.

                 Amendments in connection with the new homes ombudsman scheme

Section 137 (8)

1

The Local Government Act 1974 is amended in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 4.

2

2.1

Section 33 (consultation between Local Commissioner and other Commissioners
and Ombudsmen) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1)—

2.2.a

after paragraph (bza) insert—

2.2.a.bzb

by the new homes ombudsman under the new homes ombudsman scheme (see section
136 of the Building Safety Act 2022),

;

2.2.b

in the words after paragraph (c), after “1993” insert  “, the Housing Act
1996, the new homes ombudsman scheme” .

2.3

In subsection (2), after “housing ombudsman,” insert  “the new homes
ombudsman,” .

2.4

After subsection (3A) insert—

2.4.3B

If at any stage in the course of conducting an investigation under the new
homes ombudsman scheme, the new homes ombudsman forms the opinion that the
complaint relates partly to a matter which could be the subject of an
investigation under this Part of this Act, the new homes ombudsman must
consult with the appropriate Local Commissioner about the complaint and, if
the new homes ombudsman considers it necessary, inform the person initiating
the complaint of the steps necessary to initiate a complaint under this Part
of this Act.

2.5

In subsection (4)—

2.5.a

for “or (3A)” substitute  “, (3A) or (3B)” ;

2.5.b

for “or under the Housing Act 1996” substitute  “, the Housing Act 1996 or the
new homes ombudsman scheme” .

3

3.1

Section 33ZA (collaborative working between Local Commissioners and others) is
amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (1)—

3.2.a

in paragraph (b) omit the final “or”;

3.2.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

or

3.2.b.d

the new homes ombudsman,

.

3.3

In subsection (1A) for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or (d)” .

3.4

In subsection (3)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (b) omit the final “or”;

3.4.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

or

3.4.b.d

the new homes ombudsman,

;

3.4.c

in the words following paragraph (c) for “or (c)” substitute  “, (c) or (d)” .

4

In section 33ZB (arrangements for provision of administrative and other
services), in subsection (4)—

4.a

in paragraph (c) omit the final “and”;

4.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert—

4.b.e

the new homes ombudsman, and

4.b.f

the person maintaining the new homes ombudsman scheme under arrangements made
pursuant to section 136 of the Building Safety Act 2022.

5

5.1

Paragraph 10A of Schedule 2 to the Housing Act 1996 (housing complaints:
collaborative working with Local Commissioners) is amended as follows.

5.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

5.2.a

after “Local Commissioner” insert  “or the new homes ombudsman” ;

5.2.b

for “the ombudsman” substitute  “the housing ombudsman” ;

5.2.c

at the end insert  “, the new homes ombudsman or both of them.”

5.3

In sub-paragraph (3)—

5.3.a

after “Local Commissioner” insert  “or the new homes ombudsman” ;

5.3.b

for “the ombudsman”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “the housing
ombudsman” ;

5.3.c

at the end insert  “, the new homes ombudsman or both of them.”

5.4

In sub-paragraph (4)—

5.4.a

after “Local Commissioner” insert  “, the new homes ombudsman (or both)” ;

5.4.b

at the end insert  “(or those persons)” .

6

6.1

The  Public Services Ombudsman (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 3)  is amended as
follows.

6.2

In section 65(7) (consultation and co-operation with other ombudsmen)—

6.2.a

in the Welsh language text, after paragraph (e) insert—

6.2.a.f

yr ombwdsmon cartrefi newydd o dan y cynllun ombwdsmon cartrefi newydd (gweler
adran 136 o Ddeddf Diogelwch Adeiladau 2022).

;

6.2.b

in the English language text, after paragraph (e) insert—

6.2.b.f

the new homes ombudsman under the new homes ombudsman scheme (see section 136
of the Building Safety Act 2022).

Construction products regulations

Section 146

##### Introductory

1

1.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision in relation to the
marketing and supply of construction products in the United Kingdom.

1.2

Regulations under  this paragraph  are called “construction products
regulations”.

##### General safety requirements

2

2.1

Construction products regulations may—

2.1.a

prohibit the marketing or supply of construction products which are not safe
products;

2.1.b

impose other requirements for the purpose of securing that construction
products which are not safe products are not marketed or supplied;

2.1.c

impose requirements in relation to the marketing or supply of construction
products which are safe products.

2.2

For the purposes of  this paragraph  a construction product is a “safe
product” if, under normal or reasonably foreseeable conditions of use, and
taking into account any matters specified for the purposes of  this paragraph
by construction products regulations—

2.2.a

the product does not present any risk to the health or safety of persons, or

2.2.b

if it does, the risk is as low as it can be compatibly with using the product.

2.3

In  this paragraph —

“ use ” includes storage, transportation or packaging; “ reasonably
foreseeable conditions ” include reasonably foreseeable circumstances in which
the construction product might come under stress (for example, a fire).

##### Construction products with designated standards or technical assessments

3

Construction products regulations may make provision for and in relation to—

3.a

designated standards for construction products (see  paragraph 4 );

3.b

technical assessments for construction products (see  paragraph 5 ).

4

4.1

Provision under  paragraph 3 (a)  (designated standards) may include
provision—

4.1.a

for the designation by the Secretary of State of standards prepared in
accordance with the regulations or the 2011 Regulation;

4.1.b

for the designation by the Secretary of State of EU harmonised standards or
international standards;

4.1.c

for EU harmonised standards or international standards to be designated
standards.

4.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  may include provision as to—

4.2.a

the persons by whom standards may be proposed;

4.2.b

the procedure by which and persons by whom standards are to be prepared;

4.2.c

the matters to be covered by a standard.

5

5.1

Provision under  paragraph 3 (b)  (technical assessments) may include
provision as to the procedure by which and persons by whom technical
assessments are to be issued.

5.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision for assessment
bodies to issue technical assessments on the basis of assessment documents
developed or adopted by them, and in particular provision—

5.2.a

for the designation of assessment bodies by the Secretary of State;

5.2.b

as to the functions, operation and funding of assessment bodies;

5.2.c

as to the contents of assessment documents and the procedure by which they are
developed or adopted.

6

Construction products regulations may—

6.a

impose requirements on persons carrying out activities in relation to
construction products for which there are designated standards or technical
assessments under the regulations (see  paragraph 7 );

6.b

confer powers on relevant authorities to impose requirements on such persons
(see  paragraph 8 ).

7

7.1

Provision under  paragraph 6 (a)  (imposition of requirements) may include
provision for the imposition of requirements relating to—

7.1.a

declarations of performance in respect of products which are or are to be
marketed;

7.1.b

the making of other statements or claims in relation to the performance of
products which are or are to be marketed;

7.1.c

the marking or packaging of products;

7.1.d

the provision of information, including information about risk, to persons to
whom products are supplied;

7.1.e

the monitoring, assessment and verification of product performance, including
sample testing;

7.1.f

the storage and transportation of products;

7.1.g

the taking of corrective action, including withdrawal of products from the
market and recall of products from persons to whom they have been supplied;

7.1.h

recording and investigating complaints;

7.1.i

the production and retention of documentation or samples;

7.1.j

the notification of risks to relevant authorities;

7.1.k

information which must or may be provided to relevant authorities;

7.1.l

co-operation with relevant authorities;

7.1.m

the appointment of authorised representatives by persons carrying out
activities in relation to construction products.

7.2

Provision about declarations of performance under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  may
include provision as to—

7.2.a

the technical documentation to be prepared in relation to a declaration of
performance;

7.2.b

the content of a declaration of performance;

7.2.c

the form of a declaration of performance;

7.2.d

how a declaration of performance is to be supplied or made available.

7.3

Provision about the marking of products under  sub-paragraph (1) (c)  may
include provision as to—

7.3.a

the form and content of any marking;

7.3.b

circumstances in which products must or must not be marked.

7.4

Provision about the monitoring, assessment and verification of product
performance under  sub-paragraph (1) (e)  may include provision as to—

7.4.a

the carrying out of testing and other tasks by approved bodies;

7.4.b

when and how a body may become or cease to be an approved body;

7.4.c

the assessment and monitoring of approved bodies.

7.5

Requirements which may be imposed on persons carrying out activities in
relation to construction products under  paragraph 6 (a)  may also be imposed
on the authorised representatives of such persons.

8

8.1

Provision under  paragraph 6 (b)  (conferral of powers) may include provision
conferring powers on a relevant authority to impose requirements on persons
carrying out activities in relation to construction products in circumstances
where—

8.1.a

there has been no failure to comply with requirements imposed under  paragraph
6 (a) , but

8.1.b

in the view of the relevant authority the products nevertheless risk causing
death or serious injury to any person.

8.2

The powers referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  may include powers by notice to—

8.2.a

require a person to warn others of the risks attaching to a product;

8.2.b

require the marking of a product in respect of the risks attaching to it;

8.2.c

suspend for a specified period or prohibit the marketing or supply of a
product (or suspend or prohibit the marketing and supply of the product
without the consent of a specified person);

8.2.d

require the withdrawal of a product from the market;

8.2.e

require the recall of a product from persons to whom it has been supplied.

8.3

Provision under  sub-paragraph (2)  may include provision for appeals against
a notice.

9

Construction products regulations may include any provision—

9.a

which is made in the 2011 Regulation or the 2019 or 2020 Regulations
immediately after IP completion day, or

9.b

which relates to any matter in respect of which provision is made in that
Regulation or those Regulations immediately after that time.

##### Safety-critical products

10

10.1

For the purposes of  this Schedule , “ safety-critical products ” means
construction products which are included in a list contained in construction
products regulations.

10.2

A construction product may only be included in a list under  sub-paragraph (1)
if—

10.2.a

in the view of the Secretary of State any failure of the product would risk
causing death or serious injury to any person, and

10.2.b

the product is not one for which there are—

10.2.b.i

designated standards under  paragraph 3 (a) , or

10.2.b.ii

standards which are designated standards for the purposes of the 2011
Regulation.

10.3

Before including a construction product in the list, or amending the list, the
Secretary of State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate.

11

11.1

Construction products regulations may make provision for and in relation to
standards for safety-critical products (“safety-critical standards”).

11.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision as to—

11.2.a

the persons by whom safety-critical standards may be proposed;

11.2.b

the procedure by which and persons by whom safety-critical standards are to be
prepared;

11.2.c

the matters to be covered by a safety-critical standard.

12

Construction products regulations may—

12.a

impose requirements on persons carrying out activities in relation to safety-
critical products for which there are safety-critical standards under the
regulations (see  paragraph 13 );

12.b

confer powers on relevant authorities to impose requirements on such persons
(see  paragraph 14 ).

13

Provision under  paragraph 12 (a)  (imposition of requirements) may include
any provision referred to in  paragraph 7 .

14

14.1

Provision under  paragraph 12 (b)  (conferral of powers) may include provision
conferring powers on a relevant authority to impose requirements on persons
carrying out activities in relation to construction products in circumstances
where—

14.1.a

there has been no failure to comply with requirements imposed under  paragraph
12 (a) , but

14.1.b

in the view of the relevant authority the products nevertheless risk causing
death or serious injury to any person.

14.2

The powers referred to in  sub-paragraph (1)  include powers by notice to—

14.2.a

require a person to warn others of the risks attaching to a product;

14.2.b

require the marking of a product in respect of the risks attaching to it;

14.2.c

suspend for a specified period or prohibit the marketing or supply of a
product (or suspend or prohibit the marketing and supply of the product
without the consent of a specified person);

14.2.d

require the withdrawal of a product from the market;

14.2.e

require the recall of a product from persons to whom it has been supplied.

14.3

Provision under sub-paragraph (2) may include provision for appeals against a
notice.

##### Enforcement

15

15.1

Construction products regulations may make provision for and in relation to—

15.1.a

monitoring compliance with construction product requirements and investigating
suspected non-compliance;

15.1.b

securing compliance with construction product requirements;

15.1.c

sanctions for—

15.1.c.i

non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with construction product
requirements;

15.1.c.ii

obstruction of, failure to assist or co-operate with, or provision of false or
misleading information to, persons carrying out construction product
functions.

15.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  may include—

15.2.a

provision for relevant authorities to carry out, or secure the carrying out
of, market surveillance and test purchases;

15.2.b

provision for relevant authorities to enter, inspect and search premises and
to seize and retain products or evidence of non-compliance with construction
product requirements (including provision for the payment of compensation);

15.2.c

provision requiring the retention and provision of information (including
provision for relevant authorities to require the provision of information to
them).

15.3

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  may include provision conferring
powers on a relevant authority by notice to—

15.3.a

require a person to warn others of the risks attaching to a product;

15.3.b

require the marking of a product in respect of the risks attaching to it;

15.3.c

suspend for a specified period or prohibit the marketing or supply of a
product (or suspend or prohibit the marketing and supply of the product
without the consent of a specified person);

15.3.d

require the withdrawal of a product from the market;

15.3.e

require the recall of a product from persons to whom it has been supplied;

15.3.f

require a person to do or cease to do anything so as to end non-compliance or
suspected non-compliance with construction product requirements.

15.4

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  may also include—

15.4.a

provision for—

15.4.a.i

a relevant authority to accept undertakings relating to compliance with
construction product requirements instead of taking other enforcement action;

15.4.a.ii

sanctions for non-compliance or suspected non-compliance with such
undertakings;

15.4.b

provision for the forfeiture of products by court order (or, in Scotland,
order of the sheriff).

15.5

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (c)  or  (4) (a) (ii)  may include—

15.5.a

provision creating criminal offences;

15.5.b

in relation to England and Wales and Northern Ireland, provision for the
prosecution by relevant authorities of criminal offences created under
paragraph (a) ;

15.5.c

provision conferring powers on relevant authorities to impose civil sanctions
(including fines).

15.6

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1) (b)  or  (c)  or (4)(a)(ii) may include
provision for appeals against anything done by a relevant authority under that
provision.

15.7

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include any provision—

15.7.a

which is made by the 2013 Regulations, or

15.7.b

which relates to any matter in respect of which provision is made by the 2013
Regulations.

##### Costs

16

16.1

Construction products regulations may make provision for a relevant authority
to impose charges on a person carrying out activities in relation to
construction products, or an authorised representative of such a person, in
respect of the exercise of the relevant authority’s construction product
functions in relation to such a person.

16.2

The regulations may include provision about—

16.2.a

who is liable to pay a charge;

16.2.b

the circumstances in which a charge is payable;

16.2.c

the amount of a charge (including how an amount is to be calculated);

16.2.d

reductions and exemptions;

16.2.e

waivers;

16.2.f

how and when a charge is to be paid;

16.2.g

the collection and recovery of payments;

16.2.h

interest payable on outstanding payments;

16.2.i

the resolution of disputes (including appeals).

16.3

Provision under  this paragraph  may confer a discretion on the relevant
authority.

##### Information

17

17.1

Construction products regulations may, in connection with the exercise by
relevant authorities of their construction product functions, make provision
for and in relation to—

17.1.a

the provision of information by relevant authorities to—

17.1.a.i

other relevant authorities, or

17.1.a.ii

persons specified, or of a description specified, in construction products
regulations;

17.1.b

the provision of information to relevant authorities by—

17.1.b.i

persons specified, or of a description specified, in construction products
regulations, or

17.1.b.ii

other persons identified by relevant authorities.

17.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision—

17.2.a

as to the circumstances in which information may or must be provided (which
may include circumstances in which the information could not otherwise have
been lawfully provided or disclosed);

17.2.b

as to how information may or must be provided;

17.2.c

as to the uses to which information provided may be put;

17.2.d

for the purpose of preventing the further disclosure of information (including
provision for the creation of criminal offences);

17.2.e

for the purpose of securing that there is (taking into account any power or
duty to provide information under the regulations) no contravention of the
data protection legislation.

18

18.1

Construction products regulations may make provision for and in relation to
the publication by relevant authorities of information held by them in
connection with their construction product functions.

18.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision as to—

18.2.a

the circumstances in which information may or must be published (which may
include circumstances in which the information could not otherwise have been
lawfully published);

18.2.b

how, where and in what form information may or must be published.

19

19.1

Construction products regulations may make provision prohibiting the
disclosure of information held by relevant authorities in connection with
their construction product functions.

19.2

Provision under  sub-paragraph (1)  may include provision for the creation of
criminal offences.

##### General and supplementary

20

20.1

Construction products regulations may make—

20.1.a

different provision for different purposes;

20.1.b

different provision for or in relation to different parts of the United
Kingdom;

20.1.c

transitional, transitory, consequential and supplementary provision or
savings.

20.2

The provision made by  paragraphs 2  to  19  does not limit the power
conferred by  paragraph 1 .

21

21.1

Construction products regulations may make provision by repealing, amending or
re-enacting—

21.1.a

  assimilated   law (and in particular the 2011 Regulation and the 2013
Regulations);

21.1.b

the 2019 and 2020 Regulations;

21.1.c

any other enactment other than an Act.

21.2

Construction products regulations may under paragraph  20 (1) (c)  make
consequential provision amending section 148 (liability relating to
construction products), which may in particular include the omission or
amendment of subsection (2)(b) and (c) of that section.

22

22.1

Where construction products regulations contain provision creating a criminal
offence, the provision must have the effect that—

22.1.a

the offence is—

22.1.a.i

triable summarily only, or

22.1.a.ii

triable summarily or on indictment,

22.1.b

the offence is punishable only—

22.1.b.i

with a fine, or

22.1.b.ii

with a term of imprisonment or a fine (or both),

22.1.c

where the offence is triable summarily only, any fine with which the offence
is punishable in Scotland or Northern Ireland does not exceed level 5 on the
standard scale,

22.1.d

where the offence is triable summarily or on indictment, any fine with which
the offence is punishable on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern
Ireland does not exceed the statutory maximum, and

22.1.e

any term of imprisonment with which the offence is punishable on summary
conviction does not exceed—

22.1.e.i

in England and Wales, the relevant period,

22.1.e.ii

in Scotland, 12 months, and

22.1.e.iii

in Northern Ireland, 6 months.

22.2

In  sub-paragraph (1) (e) (i) , the “ relevant period ” means—

22.2.a

in relation to an offence that is triable only summarily—

22.2.a.i

where the offence is committed before the coming into force of section 281 of
the Criminal Justice Act 2003, 6 months, and

22.2.a.ii

where the offence is committed after that time, 51 weeks;

22.2.b

in relation to an offence that is triable summarily or on indictment—

22.2.b.i

where the offence is committed before the coming into force of paragraph 24(2)
of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020, 6 months, and

22.2.b.ii

where the offence is committed after that time, 12 months.

##### Procedure

23

23.1

Construction products regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

23.2

Construction products regulations which contain provision specified in  sub-
paragraph (3)  (with or without other provision) may not be made unless a
draft of the instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by
resolution of, each House of Parliament.

23.3

The provision referred to in  sub-paragraph (2)  is—

23.3.a

the first provision to be made under  paragraph 10 (1)  (list of safety-
critical products);

23.3.b

provision omitting a construction product from the list of safety-critical
products under paragraph  10 (1) ;

23.3.c

provision creating a criminal offence;

23.3.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

23.3.e

provision under paragraph 21 (2)  (consequential provision relating to
liability for construction products).

23.4

A statutory instrument containing construction products regulations to which
the requirements specified in  sub-paragraph (2)  do not apply is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Interpretation

24

In  this Schedule —

“ the 2011 Regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) No. 305/2011  (regulation
laying down harmonised conditions for the marketing of construction products);
“ the 2013 Regulations ” means the Construction Products Regulations 2013 (
S.I. 2013/1387 ); “ the 2019 Regulations ” means the Construction Products
(Amendment etc.) (EU Exit) Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/465 ); “ the 2020
Regulations ” means the Construction Products (Amendment etc.) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1359 ); “ authorised representative ” means a
person of a description specified in the regulations who is authorised to act
on behalf of a person carrying out an activity in relation to construction
products; “ construction product ” has the meaning specified in construction
products regulations; “ construction product functions ”, in relation to a
relevant authority, means— the authority’s functions under construction
products regulations, the 2011 Regulation or the 2019 or 2020 Regulations
(including functions relating to the provision or receipt of information), and
any other functions of the authority relating to construction product
requirements; “ construction product requirements ” means requirements imposed
by or under construction products regulations, the 2011 Regulation or the 2019
or 2020 Regulations; “ construction products regulations ” has the meaning
given in  paragraph 1 (2) ; “ data protection legislation ” has the same
meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act); “ EU
harmonised standard ” means a harmonised standard adopted at any time by a
standardisation body of the European Union; “ international standard ” means a
standard adopted by an international standardising body (which for these
purposes has the same meaning as it has for the purposes of the Agreement on
Technical Barriers to Trade, part of Annex 1A to the agreement establishing
the World Trade Organisation signed at Marrakesh on 16 April 1994, as modified
from time to time); “ local authority ” means— a county or district council in
England, a London borough council, the Common Council of the City of London,
the Council of the Isles of Scilly, a county or county borough council in
Wales, a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc
(Scotland) Act 1994, and a district council in Northern Ireland; references to
the “ marketing ” of products are to making them available on the market in
the United Kingdom; “ persons carrying out activities in relation to
construction products ” include (without limitation)— a manufacturer of
construction products, a person who markets or supplies construction products
to others, and a person who imports construction products into the United
Kingdom for use, marketing or supply; “ relevant authority ” means— the
Secretary of State or other Minister of the Crown, and a local authority
(including, in England, Wales and Scotland, a local authority in its capacity
as a local weights and measures authority); “ requirement ” includes a
prohibition or restriction; “ safety-critical products ” has the meaning given
in  paragraph 10 ; “ technical assessment ” means a documented assessment of
the performance of a construction product.

