Title: Coronavirus (Recovery and Reform) (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/8

## Coronavirus (Recovery and Reform) (Scotland) Act 2022

### Public health protection

#### Modifications of the Public Health etc. (Scotland) Act 2008

##### Public health protection measures

1

1.1

The Public Health etc. (Scotland) Act 2008 is modified as follows.

1.2

After section 86 insert—

########### Public health protection measures

############ Public health protection regulations

############# Public health protection regulations

1.2.86A

1.2.86A.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for the purpose of
preventing, protecting against, controlling or providing a public health
response to the incidence or spread of infection or contamination in Scotland
(whether from risks originating there or elsewhere).

1.2.86A.2

In subsection (1)—

1.2.86A.2.a

reference to infection or contamination is a reference to infection or
contamination which presents or could present significant harm to human
health,

1.2.86A.2.b

reference to the spread of contamination includes a reference to the spread of
any source of contamination.

1.2.86A.3

The power in subsection (1) may be exercised—

1.2.86A.3.a

in relation to infection or contamination generally or in relation to
particular forms of infection or contamination, and

1.2.86A.3.b

so as to make provision of a general nature, to make contingent provision or
to make specific provision in response to particular circumstances.

1.2.86A.4

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular include provision directly
or indirectly imposing restrictions or requirements on or in relation to
persons, things or premises in the event of, or in response to, a threat to
public health (but see sections 86D and 86E).

1.2.86A.5

The restrictions or requirements mentioned in subsection (4) include, for
example—

1.2.86A.5.a

a requirement that a pupil (within the meaning given by section 135(1) of the
Education (Scotland) Act 1980) is to be kept away from school,

1.2.86A.5.b

a prohibition or restriction relating to the holding of an event or gathering,

1.2.86A.5.c

a restriction or requirement relating to the handling, transport, burial or
cremation of dead bodies or the handling, transport or disposal of human
remains, and

1.2.86A.5.d

a special restriction or requirement (see section 86G).

############# Public health protection regulations: public health declarations

1.2.86B

1.2.86B.1

Regulations under section 86A(1) which are responding to a particular
infection or contamination may be made only when a public health declaration
under this section has effect.

1.2.86B.2

A public health declaration means a declaration by the Scottish Ministers that
they consider that—

1.2.86B.2.a

an infectious disease or contaminant constitutes or may constitute a danger to
human health, and

1.2.86B.2.b

the making of regulations under section 86A(1) may be a way of protecting
against that danger.

1.2.86B.3

Before making a public health declaration, the Scottish Ministers must consult
the Chief Medical Officer of the Scottish Administration or another person
designated for the purposes of this section by the Scottish Ministers.

1.2.86B.4

A public health declaration has effect if—

1.2.86B.4.a

it is made by the Scottish Ministers,

1.2.86B.4.b

either—

1.2.86B.4.b.i

it is approved in accordance with subsection (6), or

1.2.86B.4.b.ii

a statement under section 86C(1) is made, and

1.2.86B.4.c

it has not ceased to have effect in accordance with subsection (10).

1.2.86B.5

The Scottish Ministers must publish a public health declaration in such manner
as they consider appropriate.

1.2.86B.6

A public health declaration is approved if—

1.2.86B.6.a

the Scottish Ministers lay a copy of the declaration before the Scottish
Parliament,

1.2.86B.6.b

a member of the Scottish Government lodges a motion that the declaration be
approved, and

1.2.86B.6.c

the Parliament agrees to the motion.

1.2.86B.7

A motion under subsection (6)(b) may not be amended.

1.2.86B.8

The Scottish Ministers must publish notice of the approval of a public health
declaration and the time at which the declaration has effect, in such manner
as they consider appropriate.

1.2.86B.9

If, during the period that a public health declaration has effect, the
Scottish Ministers consider that paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) no
longer apply, they must—

1.2.86B.9.a

revoke the declaration,

1.2.86B.9.b

lay notice of revocation before the Scottish Parliament, and

1.2.86B.9.c

publish notice of revocation in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

1.2.86B.10

A public health declaration ceases to have effect immediately after it is
revoked.

1.2.86B.11

A public health declaration’s ceasing to have effect neither—

1.2.86B.11.a

affects anything done before the declaration ceased to have effect, nor

1.2.86B.11.b

prevents the making of regulations revoking regulations made during the period
that the declaration had effect.

############# Public health protection regulations: further provision about public health declarations

1.2.86C

1.2.86C.1

If the Scottish Ministers consider that it is not practicable for a public
health declaration to be approved in accordance with section 86B(6), they may
make a statement explaining why.

1.2.86C.2

An example of when it may not be practicable for a public health declaration
to be approved in accordance with section 86B(6) is if the Scottish Parliament
is dissolved.

1.2.86C.3

When a statement under subsection (1) is made, the Scottish Ministers must—

1.2.86C.3.a

lay a copy of the public health declaration and the statement before the
Scottish Parliament, and

1.2.86C.3.b

publish the statement in such manner as they consider appropriate.

1.2.86C.4

If a statement under subsection (1) is made—

1.2.86C.4.a

the public health declaration has effect immediately after the declaration is
made, and

1.2.86C.4.b

the declaration ceases to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which it is made unless before the end of that
period it is approved by the Scottish Parliament on a motion by a member of
the Scottish Government (if it has not already ceased to have effect under
subsection (5)).

1.2.86C.5

If, on any day during that period of 28 days, the Parliament comes to a
decision not to approve the public health declaration, the declaration ceases
to have effect immediately after the decision is made.

1.2.86C.6

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in subsections (4) and (5), no
account is to be taken of any time during which the Scottish Parliament is—

1.2.86C.6.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

1.2.86C.6.b

dissolved.

1.2.86C.7

A motion under subsection (4)(b) may not be amended.

############# Limits on use of power: regulations directly imposing restrictions or requirements 

1.2.86D

1.2.86D.1

Regulations under section 86A(1) may not impose a restriction or requirement
by virtue of section 86A(4) unless the Scottish Ministers consider, when
making the regulations, that the restriction or requirement is proportionate
to what is sought to be achieved by imposing it.

1.2.86D.2

Regulations under section 86A(1) may not impose a restriction or requirement
mentioned in section 86G(2)(a), (b), (c) or (d).

1.2.86D.3

For the purpose of this section, the regulations “impose” a restriction or
requirement if the restriction or requirement is imposed directly by the
regulations.

############# Limits on use of power: regulations indirectly imposing restrictions or requirements 

1.2.86E

1.2.86E.1

Regulations under section 86A(1) may not enable the imposition of a
restriction or requirement by virtue of section 86A(4) unless the regulations
provide that a decision to impose such a restriction or requirement may only
be taken if the person taking it considers, when taking the decision, that the
restriction or requirement is proportionate to what is sought to be achieved
by imposing it.

1.2.86E.2

Regulations under section 86A(1) may not enable the imposition of a special
restriction or requirement unless—

1.2.86E.2.a

the regulations are made in response to a serious and imminent threat to
public health, or

1.2.86E.2.b

the imposition of the special restriction or requirement is expressed to be
contingent on there being such a threat at the time when it is imposed.

1.2.86E.3

For the purpose of this section, the regulations “enable the imposition of” a
restriction or requirement if the restriction or requirement is imposed by
virtue of a decision taken under the regulations by the Scottish Ministers, a
local authority, a health board or other person.

############# Exclusion of requirement to undergo medical treatment

1.2.86F

1.2.86F.1

Regulations under section 86A(1) may not include provision requiring a person
to undergo medical treatment.

1.2.86F.2

“Medical treatment” includes vaccination and other prophylactic treatment.

############# Special restrictions and requirements

1.2.86G

1.2.86G.1

In this Part, a “special restriction or requirement” means a restriction or
requirement mentioned in    subsections (2)  to   (5) .

1.2.86G.2

In relation to a person, the restriction or requirement referred to in
subsection (1) is that the person—

1.2.86G.2.a

submit to medical examination,

1.2.86G.2.b

be removed to a hospital or other suitable establishment,

1.2.86G.2.c

be detained in a hospital or other suitable establishment,

1.2.86G.2.d

be kept in quarantine (within the meaning of section 39(4)),

1.2.86G.2.e

be disinfected or decontaminated,

1.2.86G.2.f

wear protective clothing,

1.2.86G.2.g

provide information or answer questions about the person’s health or other
circumstances,

1.2.86G.2.h

has the person’s health monitored and the results reported,

1.2.86G.2.i

attend training or advice sessions on how to reduce the risk of infecting or
contaminating others,

1.2.86G.2.j

be subject to restrictions as to where the person may go or with whom the
person has contact,

1.2.86G.2.k

abstain from working or trading.

1.2.86G.3

Where regulations enable the imposition of a requirement to submit to medical
examination, section 35 applies to that examination in the same way as it
applies to an examination authorised by virtue of an order under section
34(1).

1.2.86G.4

In relation to a thing, the restriction or requirement referred to in
subsection (1) is—

1.2.86G.4.a

that the thing be seized or detained,

1.2.86G.4.b

that the thing be kept in quarantine,

1.2.86G.4.c

that the thing be disinfected or decontaminated,

1.2.86G.4.d

that the vector, agent or source of any infection or contamination be removed,

1.2.86G.4.e

in the case of a dead body, that the body be buried or cremated,

1.2.86G.4.f

in any other case, that the thing be destroyed or disposed of.

1.2.86G.5

In relation to premises, the restriction or requirement referred to in
subsection (1) is—

1.2.86G.5.a

that the premises be closed,

1.2.86G.5.b

that, in the case of a vehicle or movable structure, the premises be detained,

1.2.86G.5.c

that the premises be disinfected or decontaminated,

1.2.86G.5.d

that the vector, agent or source of any infection or contamination be removed,

1.2.86G.5.e

that, in the case of a building, structure, mobile home or vehicle, the
premises be destroyed.

############# Further provision on content of regulations 

1.2.86H

1.2.86H.1

This section makes further provision about regulations under section 86A(1).

1.2.86H.2

The regulations may—

1.2.86H.2.a

confer functions on local authorities, health boards and other persons,

1.2.86H.2.b

make different provision for different areas,

1.2.86H.2.c

create offences,

1.2.86H.2.d

modify any enactment (including this Act),

1.2.86H.2.e

enable a court to order a person convicted of any offence under the
regulations to take or pay for remedial action in appropriate circumstances,

1.2.86H.2.f

provide for the carrying out and enforcement of restrictions and requirements
imposed by virtue of the regulations,

1.2.86H.2.g

provide for appeals from and reviews of restrictions and requirements imposed
by virtue of the regulations,

1.2.86H.2.h

permit or prohibit the levying of charges,

1.2.86H.2.i

permit or require the payment of incentive payments and expenses,

1.2.86H.2.j

permit the payment of compensation,

1.2.86H.2.k

provide for the resolution of disputes.

1.2.86H.3

The maximum penalties that may be imposed in relation to offences created
under the regulations are—

1.2.86H.3.a

on summary conviction, imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both),

1.2.86H.3.b

on conviction on indictment, imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years
or a fine (or both).

1.2.86H.4

The regulations must provide for a right of appeal to the sheriff against any
decision taken under the regulations by virtue of which a special restriction
or requirement is imposed on or in relation to a person, thing or premises.

############# Review of regulations

1.2.86I

1.2.86I.1

So long as regulations under section 86A(1) which make provision mentioned in
section 86A(4) remain in effect, the Scottish Ministers must review the
regulations—

1.2.86I.1.a

before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the date on which the
regulations came into force, and

1.2.86I.1.b

before the end of each subsequent period of 21 days.

1.2.86I.2

Subsection (1) does not apply where the regulations make only provision of a
general nature or contingent provision.

1.2.86I.3

Subsection (4) applies where regulations under section 86A(1)—

1.2.86I.3.a

enable a special restriction or requirement to be imposed by virtue of a
decision taken under the regulations, and

1.2.86I.3.b

the restriction or requirement is capable of remaining in force in relation to
any person, thing or premises for more than a specified period.

1.2.86I.4

The regulations must provide that a specified person may require the
continuation of the restriction or requirement to be reviewed in accordance
with the regulations at specified intervals by a person determined in
accordance with the regulations.

1.2.86I.5

In relation to a special restriction or requirement mentioned in section
86G(2)(c) or (d)—

1.2.86I.5.a

the period specified by virtue of subsection (3)(b) and the intervals
specified by virtue of subsection (4) must be 21 days or less, and

1.2.86I.5.b

the regulations must require the continuation of the restriction or
requirement to be reviewed without an application being made.

1.2.86I.6

In this section, “specified” means specified in the regulations.

############ Public health monitoring measures

############# Public health monitoring measures

1.2.86J

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision conferring on local
authorities, health boards or other persons functions in relation to the
monitoring of public health risks.

.

1.3

In section 122 (regulations and orders)—

1.3.a

in subsection (5), after “25(3),” insert  “86A(1),” ,

1.3.b

in subsection (6)—

1.3.b.i

after “25(3)” insert  “, 86A(1)” ,

1.3.b.ii

after “urgently” insert  “(but see subsection (11))” ,

1.3.c

after subsection (10) insert—

1.3.c.11

Subsection (6) does not apply to regulations under section 86A(1) which make
provision modifying an Act of the Scottish Parliament or an Act of Parliament.

1.3.c.12

Where subsection (6) applies to regulations made under section 86A(1)—

1.3.c.12.a

the Scottish Ministers must explain why they consider that the regulations
need to be made urgently, and

1.3.c.12.b

the regulations must include provision for them to expire on a day specified
in the regulations.

1.3.c.13

Subsection (12)(b) does not apply where the regulations amend regulations in
which the provision mentioned in subsection (12)(b) has already been included.

.

##### International travel regulations

2

2.1

The Public Health etc. (Scotland) Act 2008 is modified as follows.

2.2

In section 94 (international travel)—

2.2.a

in subsection (1)(a)(ii)—

2.2.a.i

after “agreements” insert  “or arrangements” ,

2.2.a.ii

after “contamination” insert  “(including any recommendations issued under
such agreements or arrangements)” ,

2.2.b

in subsection (2)—

2.2.b.i

in paragraph (e), after sub-paragraph (iii) insert—

2.2.b.i.iv

kept in quarantine,

,

2.2.b.ii

after paragraph (i) insert—

2.2.b.ii.ia

enabling a court to order a person convicted of any offence under the
regulations to take or pay for remedial action in appropriate circumstances,

2.2.b.ii.ib

providing for the carrying out and enforcement of restrictions and
requirements imposed by virtue of the regulations,

2.2.b.ii.ic

providing for appeals from and reviews of restrictions and requirements
imposed by virtue of the regulations,

2.2.b.ii.id

permitting or requiring the payment of incentive payments or expenses,

2.2.b.ii.ie

permitting the payment of compensation,

2.2.b.ii.if

providing for the resolution of disputes,

,

2.2.b.iii

in paragraph (j), after “permitting” insert  “or prohibiting” ,

2.2.c

after subsection (2) insert—

2.2.c.2A

Regulations under subsection (1) may not include provision requiring persons
to undergo medical treatment.

2.2.c.2B

In subsection (2A), “medical treatment” includes vaccination and other
prophylactic treatment.

.

##### Meaning of “premises”

3

3.1

The Public Health etc. (Scotland) Act 2008 is modified as follows.

3.2

In section 123 (meaning of “premises”)—

3.2.a

in the definition of “premises”, in paragraph (b)—

3.2.a.i

before sub-paragraph (i) insert—

3.2.a.i.zi

a tent or other moveable structure,

,

3.2.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (i), the word “and” is repealed,

3.2.a.iii

after sub-paragraph (ii) insert  “, and

3.2.a.iii.iii

an offshore installation (within the meaning given by regulation 3 of the
Offshore Installations and Pipeline Works (Management and Administration)
Regulations 1995 ( S.I. 1995/738 )).

,

3.2.b

in the definition of “mobile home”—

3.2.b.i

for “means” substitute  “includes” ,

3.2.b.ii

for “, houseboat or other moveable structure” substitute  “or houseboat” .

#### Arrangements for vaccination and immunisation

##### Arrangements for vaccination and immunisation

4

4.1

The National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978 is modified by  subsection (2)
.

4.2

In section 40 (vaccination and immunisation)—

4.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

4.2.a.1

The Scottish Ministers may make arrangements for the vaccination or
immunisation of persons against any disease.

,

4.2.b

in subsection (3)—

4.2.b.i

for “Secretary of State” substitute  “Scottish Ministers” ,

4.2.b.ii

for “medical practitioners” substitute  “persons” .

4.3

The Functions of Health Boards (Scotland) Order 1991 ( S.I. 1991/570 ) is
modified by  subsection (4) .

4.4

In article 4 (functions to be exercised by Health Boards), for paragraph (g)
substitute— 

4.4.g

the power of the Scottish Ministers under section 40 to make arrangements for
the vaccination or immunisation of persons against any disease and to supply
vaccines, sera or other preparations for such vaccination or immunisation;

.

### Education

#### Educational establishments etc.

##### Interpretation of Chapter

5

5.1

In this Chapter—

      “ the 1980 Act ” means the Education (Scotland) Act 1980,           “
the 2005 Act ” means the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 2005,
“ child minder ” has the meaning given by paragraph 12 of schedule 12 of the
Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010,           “ early learning and
childcare ” has the meaning given by section 46 of the Children and Young
People (Scotland) Act 2014,           “ education ” includes early learning
and childcare, school education, further education and higher education,
“ education authority, ” “grant-aided school”, “independent school”, “public
school”, “school” and “school education” have the meanings given by section
135(1) of the 1980 Act,           “ educational establishment ”—
means—           a school,           an education and training establishment
approved by the Scottish Qualifications Authority under section 2 of the
Education (Scotland) Act 1996 as suitable for presenting persons for SQA
qualifications,           a further education institution,           a higher
education institution, and               is also to be construed in accordance
with  subsections (3)  and  (4)  of this section,                 “ further
education ” has the meaning given by section 6 of the Further and Higher
Education (Scotland) Act 1992,           “ further education institution ”
means—         a body listed under the heading “Institutions formerly eligible
for funding by the Scottish Further Education Funding Council” or under the
heading “Other institutions” in schedule 2 of the 2005 Act,           a
college of further education which is assigned to a regional strategic body by
an order made under section 7C(1) of the 2005 Act,                 “ governing
body ” has the meaning given by section 35(2) of the 2005 Act,           “
higher education ” has the meaning given by section 38 of the Further and
Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992,           “ higher education institution
” means—         a body listed under the heading “Institutions formerly
eligible for funding by the Scottish Higher Education Funding Council” or
under the heading “Other institutions” in schedule 2 of the 2005 Act,
a person who provides a course of higher education designated by the Scottish
Ministers under regulation 4(9) of the Education (Student Loans) (Scotland)
Regulations 2007 ( S.S.I. 2007/154 ) for the purposes of regulation 3(2) of
those Regulations,                 “ managers ”, in relation to a grant-aided
school, has the meaning given by section 135(1) of the 1980 Act,           “
out of school care ” means care which is provided—         to children who are
in attendance at a school,            outside school hours or during school
holidays, and           by a child minder or a service for the day care of
children within the meaning given by paragraph 13 of schedule 12 of the Public
Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010,                  “ proprietor ”, in
relation to an independent school, has the meaning given by section 135(1) of
the 1980 Act,           “ protecting public health ” has the meaning given by
section 1(5) of the Public Health etc. Scotland Act 2008.

5.2

In this Chapter, “relevant operator”—

5.2.a

in relation to a school, means—

5.2.a.i

where the school is a public school, the education authority by which it is
managed,

5.2.a.ii

where the school is an independent school, the proprietor,

5.2.a.iii

where the school is a grant-aided school, the managers,

5.2.b

in relation to an education and training establishment approved by the
Scottish Qualifications Authority under section 2 of the Education (Scotland)
Act 1996 as suitable for presenting persons for SQA qualifications, means the
person who has responsibility for the management of the establishment,

5.2.c

in relation to a further education institution or a higher education
institution, means the governing body of the institution.

5.3

Where out of school care is provided by a person in a school, “relevant
operator” also includes such a person.

5.4

Where school education, early learning and childcare or out of school care is
provided by a person in premises other than a school—

5.4.a

“relevant operator” also includes such a person, and

5.4.b

references to “educational establishment” in this Chapter are to be read as if
they were references to such premises.

##### Duty to have regard to public health advice

6

6.1

A relevant authority must have regard to any advice from the Chief Medical
Officer of the Scottish Administration, or from another person designated for
the purposes of this section by the Scottish Ministers, about protecting
public health.

6.2

In  subsection (1) , “relevant authority” means—

6.2.a

a relevant operator of an educational establishment,

6.2.b

a relevant manager of a school boarding establishment (within the meaning
given by  section 9 (6) ),

6.2.c

a relevant manager of student accommodation premises (within the meaning given
by  section 10 (6) ).

##### Guidance on public health measures

7

7.1

A relevant authority must have regard to any guidance issued by the Scottish
Ministers about protecting public health and ensuring the continuity of
education.

7.2

The Scottish Ministers must publish any guidance issued under  subsection (1)
.

7.3

In  subsection (1) , “relevant authority” has the meaning given by  section 6
(2) .

##### Regulations on continuing operation of educational establishments

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision relating to the
continuing operation of an educational establishment for a specified period.

8.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision applying to—

8.2.a

the relevant operator of one or more named educational establishments,

8.2.b

the relevant operators of all educational establishments,

8.2.c

the relevant operators of a particular description of educational
establishment.

8.3

Where regulations under subsection (1) apply to the relevant operator of a
further education institution or higher education institution, they may not
make provision relating to any non-educational functions of the operator.

8.4

For the purposes of subsection (3), “non-educational functions”—

8.4.a

are functions of the operator which do not relate solely to the teaching and
delivery of further education or higher education, but

8.4.b

exclude any additional functions conferred on the operator by virtue of
subsection (7)(a)(iii) relating to the use of the operator’s premises for the
purpose of protecting public health.

8.5

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Scottish Ministers—

8.5.a

must have regard to any advice from the Chief Medical Officer of the Scottish
Administration about protecting public health (or, as the case may be, from
another person designated for the purposes of this section by the Scottish
Ministers), and

8.5.b

must be satisfied, in view of that advice, that making the regulations is a
necessary and proportionate action for or in connection with the continued
provision of education.

8.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may provide that any failure to comply with
a duty or time limit imposed under any enactment or rule of law relating to
education is to be disregarded to the extent that the failure would be
attributable to the regulations.

8.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

8.7.a

confer additional functions on a relevant operator relating to—

8.7.a.i

the provision of early learning and childcare, school education, further
education or higher education,

8.7.a.ii

the provision of related services,

8.7.a.iii

where the relevant operator is an education authority or a further education
institution or higher education institution, the use of the operator’s
premises for the purpose of protecting public health,

8.7.b

require an educational establishment to open, to stay open, to re-open, or to
open at times when it would not usually be open,

8.7.c

require a relevant operator to allow specified people or people of a specified
description to attend an educational establishment or relevant premises for
which the operator is responsible,

8.7.d

provide for or require specified people or people of a specified description
to attend a specified educational establishment or specified premises for the
purposes of receiving early learning and childcare, school education, further
education or higher education there,

8.7.e

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the whole or a specified part of an
educational establishment or of relevant premises,

8.7.f

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the carrying on of all activities or
in respect of the carrying on of specified activities,

8.7.g

require measures to ensure safe standards of hygiene, and other measures to
protect public health, to be put in place,

8.7.h

require the alteration of term dates, holiday dates or examination dates,

8.7.i

require the taking of actions in general terms, or require the taking of
particular actions, that the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate,

8.7.j

make different provision for different purposes (for example, for different
descriptions of people attending an educational establishment),

8.7.k

make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

8.8

Where early learning and childcare or out of school care is provided by a
person acting as a child minder in premises used mainly as a private dwelling,
regulations under  subsection (1)  may only make provision applying to the
part of the premises in which such care is provided.

8.9

In this section—

      “ relevant premises ” means any premises (other than residential
accommodation) which people attend in order to receive services provided by or
on behalf of the relevant operator of an educational establishment there,
“ specified ” means specified, or falling within a description specified, in
regulations under  subsection (1) .

##### Regulations on school boarding accommodation

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

9.1.a

require a relevant manager of a school boarding establishment to take
reasonable steps to restrict or prohibit access to the establishment for a
specified period,

9.1.b

require a relevant manager of a school boarding establishment to provide
support for pupils for a specified period in order to assist—

9.1.b.i

their compliance with any restriction or requirement relating to the
protection of public health imposed by virtue of an enactment or rule of law,

9.1.b.ii

their following of any guidance or advice from a public authority relating to
the protection of public health,

9.1.b.iii

their response to a particular request or recommendation from a public
authority relating to the protection of public health (for example, a
recommendation for a pupil or group of pupils to self-isolate).

9.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision applying to—

9.2.a

the relevant manager of one or more named school boarding establishments,

9.2.b

the relevant manager of all school boarding establishments,

9.2.c

the relevant managers of a particular description of school boarding
establishment.

9.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Scottish Ministers—

9.3.a

must have regard to any advice from the Chief Medical Officer of the Scottish
Administration about protecting public health (or, as the case may be, from
another person designated for the purposes of this section by the Scottish
Ministers), and

9.3.b

must be satisfied, in view of that advice, that making the regulations is a
necessary and proportionate action for or in connection with protecting public
health.

9.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may provide that any failure to comply with
a duty or time limit imposed under any enactment or rule of law relating to
education is to be disregarded to the extent that the failure would be
attributable to the regulations.

9.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

9.5.a

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the whole or a specified part of
premises in which school boarding accommodation is provided,

9.5.b

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the carrying on of all activities or
in respect of the carrying on of specified activities,

9.5.c

require the taking of actions in general terms, or require the taking of
particular actions, that the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate,

9.5.d

make different provision for different purposes (for example, for different
descriptions of people for whom school boarding accommodation is provided),

9.5.e

make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

9.6

In this section—

      “ pupil ” has the meaning given by section 135(1) of the 1980 Act,
“ relevant manager ”, in relation to school boarding accommodation, means a
person having responsibility for the management of the accommodation,
“ school boarding accommodation ”, in relation to a pupil, means residential
accommodation provided to the pupil by a school care accommodation service
(within the meaning of paragraph 3 of schedule 12 of the Public Services
Reform (Scotland) Act 2010)),           “ school boarding establishment ”
means a place where school boarding accommodation is provided,           “
specified ” means specified, or falling within a description specified, in
regulations under  subsection (1) .

##### Regulations on student accommodation

10

10.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

10.1.a

require a relevant manager of student accommodation premises to take
reasonable steps to restrict or prohibit access to the premises for a
specified period,

10.1.b

require a relevant manager of student accommodation premises to provide
support for students for a specified period in order to assist—

10.1.b.i

their compliance with any restriction or requirement relating to the
protection of public health imposed by virtue of an enactment or rule of law,

10.1.b.ii

their following of any guidance or advice from a public authority relating to
the protection of public health,

10.1.b.iii

their response to a particular request or recommendation from a public
authority relating to the protection of public health (for example, a
recommendation for a student or group of students to self-isolate).

10.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may make provision applying to—

10.2.a

the relevant manager of one or more named student accommodation premises,

10.2.b

the relevant managers of all student accommodation premises,

10.2.c

the relevant managers of a particular description of student accommodation
premises.

10.3

Before making regulations under  subsection (1) , the Scottish Ministers—

10.3.a

must have regard to any advice from the Chief Medical Officer of the Scottish
Administration about protecting public health (or, as the case may be, from
another person designated for the purposes of this section by the Scottish
Ministers), and

10.3.b

must be satisfied, in view of that advice, that making the regulations is a
necessary and proportionate action for or in connection with protecting public
health.

10.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may provide that any failure to comply with
a duty or time limit imposed under any enactment or rule of law relating to
education is to be disregarded to the extent that the failure would be
attributable to the regulations.

10.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

10.5.a

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the whole or a specified part of
student accommodation premises,

10.5.b

restrict or prohibit access in respect of the carrying on of all activities or
in respect of the carrying on of specified activities,

10.5.c

require the taking of actions in general terms, or require the taking of
particular actions, that the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate,

10.5.d

make different provision for different purposes (for example, for different
descriptions of people for whom student accommodation is provided),

10.5.e

make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

10.6

In this section—

      “ relevant manager ”, in relation to student accommodation, means a
person having responsibility for the management of the accommodation,
“ specified ” means specified, or falling within a description specified, in
regulations under  subsection (1) ,           “ student ” means a person who
is or is about to be matriculated at a further education institution or a
higher education institution,           “ student accommodation ” means
residential accommodation which has been built or converted for the purpose of
being provided to students,           “ student accommodation premises ” means
a place where student accommodation is provided.

##### Compliance and enforcement

11

11.1

Regulations under this Chapter may provide for the carrying out and
enforcement of restrictions and requirements imposed by virtue of the
regulations.

11.2

A relevant authority must have regard to any guidance issued by the Scottish
Ministers about how to comply with regulations under this Chapter.

11.3

The Scottish Ministers must publish any guidance issued under  subsection (2)
.

11.4

In  subsection (2) , “relevant authority” has the meaning given by  section 6
(2) .

##### Procedure for regulations

12

12.1

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under this Chapter are subject to
the affirmative procedure, unless  subsection (2)  applies to them.

12.2

This subsection applies to regulations if the Scottish statutory instrument
containing the regulations includes a declaration that the Scottish Ministers
are of the opinion that, by reason of urgency, it is necessary to make the
regulations without their being subject to the affirmative procedure.

12.3

Where  subsection (2)  applies—

12.3.a

section 30 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
does not apply to the regulations,

12.3.b

the Scottish statutory instrument containing the regulations must be laid
before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable after they are made, and

12.3.c

the regulations cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which they are made unless, during that period, the
Scottish statutory instrument containing them is approved by a resolution of
the Parliament.

12.4

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in  subsection (3) (c) , no
account is to be taken of any time during which the Scottish Parliament is—

12.4.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

12.4.b

dissolved.

12.5

Regulations ceasing to have effect by virtue of  subsection (3) (c)  neither—

12.5.a

affects anything previously done under the regulations before they ceased to
have effect, nor

12.5.b

prevents new regulations being made.

12.6

Where subsection (2) applies to regulations made under this Chapter, the
Scottish Ministers must explain why they are of the opinion that, by reason of
urgency, it is necessary to make the regulations without their being subject
to the affirmative procedure.

12.7

Where subsection (2) applies to regulations made under this Chapter, the
regulations must include provision for them to expire on a day specified in
the regulations.

12.8

Subsection (7) does not apply where the regulations amend regulations in which
the provision mentioned in subsection (7) has already been included.

12.9

Where subsection (2) applies but the regulations—

12.9.a

revoke (in whole or in part) previous regulations made under this Chapter, and

12.9.b

do—

12.9.b.i

nothing else, or

12.9.b.ii

nothing else except make transitional, transitory or saving provision related
to the revocation,

the Scottish statutory instrument containing the regulations must be laid
before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable after they are made (and
subsection (3)(b) and (c) do not apply to the regulations).

##### Regulations: public health declarations

13

13.1

Regulations under this Chapter which are responding to a particular infection
or contamination may be made only when a public health declaration under this
section has effect.

13.2

A public health declaration means a declaration by the Scottish Ministers that
they consider that—

13.2.a

an infectious disease or contaminant constitutes or may constitute a danger to
human health, and

13.2.b

the making of regulations under this Chapter may be a way of protecting
against that danger.

13.3

Before making a public health declaration, the Scottish Ministers must consult
the Chief Medical Officer of the Scottish Administration or another person
designated for the purposes of this section by the Scottish Ministers.

13.4

A public health declaration has effect if—

13.4.a

it is made by the Scottish Ministers,

13.4.b

either—

13.4.b.i

it is approved in accordance with subsection (6), or

13.4.b.ii

a statement under section 14(1) is made, and

13.4.c

it has not ceased to have effect in accordance with subsection (10).

13.5

The Scottish Ministers must publish a public health declaration in such manner
as they consider appropriate.

13.6

A public health declaration is approved if—

13.6.a

the Scottish Ministers lay a copy of the declaration before the Scottish
Parliament,

13.6.b

a member of the Scottish Government lodges a motion that the declaration be
approved, and

13.6.c

the Parliament agrees to the motion.

13.7

A motion under subsection (6)(b) may not be amended.

13.8

The Scottish Ministers must publish notice of the approval of a public health
declaration and the time at which the declaration has effect, in such manner
as they consider appropriate.

13.9

If, during the period that a public health declaration has effect, the
Scottish Ministers consider that paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (2) no
longer apply, they must—

13.9.a

revoke the declaration,

13.9.b

lay notice of revocation before the Scottish Parliament, and

13.9.c

publish notice of revocation in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

13.10

A public health declaration ceases to have effect immediately after it is
revoked.

13.11

A public health declaration’s ceasing to have effect neither—

13.11.a

affects anything done before the declaration ceased to have effect, nor

13.11.b

prevents the making of regulations revoking regulations made during the period
that the declaration had effect.

##### Regulations: further provision about public health declarations

14

14.1

If the Scottish Ministers consider that it is not practicable for a public
health declaration to be approved in accordance with section 13(6), they may
make a statement explaining why.

14.2

An example of when it may not be practicable for a public health declaration
to be approved in accordance with section 13(6) is if the Scottish Parliament
is dissolved.

14.3

When a statement under subsection (1) is made, the Scottish Ministers must—

14.3.a

lay a copy of the public health declaration and the statement before the
Scottish Parliament, and

14.3.b

publish the statement in such manner as they consider appropriate.

14.4

If a statement under subsection (1) is made—

14.4.a

the public health declaration has effect immediately after the declaration is
made, and

14.4.b

the declaration ceases to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which it is made unless before the end of that
period it is approved by the Scottish Parliament on a motion by a member of
the Scottish Government (if it has not already ceased to have effect under
subsection (5)).

14.5

If, on any day during that period of 28 days, the Parliament comes to a
decision not to approve the public health declaration, the declaration ceases
to have effect immediately after the decision is made.

14.6

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in subsections (4) and (5), no
account is to be taken of any time during which the Scottish Parliament is—

14.6.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

14.6.b

dissolved.

14.7

A motion under subsection (4)(b) may not be amended.

##### Review of regulations

15

So long as regulations under this Chapter remain in effect, the Scottish
Ministers must review the regulations—

15.a

before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the day on which the
regulations came into force, and

15.b

before the end of each subsequent period of 21 days.

##### Duty to seek views about regulations 

16

16.1

So long as regulations under section 8(1) remain in effect, the Scottish
Ministers must seek views from the persons listed in subsection (2) about
those regulations, and about any regulations under section 9(1) and 10(1)
which are also in effect—

16.1.a

before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the
regulations under section 8(1) came into force, and

16.1.b

before the end of each subsequent period of 28 days.

16.2

The persons are—

16.2.a

such persons as the Scottish Ministers consider representative of—

16.2.a.i

relevant operators of educational establishments to which the regulations
apply,

16.2.a.ii

relevant managers of school boarding accommodation and student accommodation
to which the regulations apply,

16.2.a.iii

users of such establishments and accommodation (including children and young
people),

16.2.a.iv

staff of such establishments and accommodation (including any trade union
which appears representative of such staff), and

16.2.b

such other persons as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

16.3

In subsection (2)(a)(ii)—

      “ relevant manager ”, in relation to school boarding accommodation or
student accommodation, means a person having responsibility for the management
of the accommodation,           “ school boarding accommodation ” has the
meaning given by section 9(6),           “ student accommodation ” has the
meaning given by section 10(6).

##### Report on public schools’ readiness for remote learning

17

17.1

The Scottish Ministers must report on—

17.1.a

how ready education authorities are for the provision of education in public
schools by remote learning, and

17.1.b

any specific steps that have been taken by education authorities and the
Scottish Ministers to improve readiness for the provision of education in
public schools by remote learning.

17.2

The Scottish Ministers must publish the report —

17.2.a

in the case of the first report, as soon as practicable after 31 July 2023,

17.2.b

in each other case, from time to time as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

17.3

For the purposes of subsection (1), the provision of education does not
include the provision of early learning and childcare.

#### School consultations

##### School consultations: meetings and documents

18

18.1

The Schools (Consultation) (Scotland) Act 2010 is modified as follows.

18.2

After section 11 insert—

########### Directions relating to making documents available and holding public meetings

18.2.11ZA

18.2.11ZA.1

The Scottish Ministers may, on the application of an education authority, give
a direction that the education authority is to take one or more of the actions
mentioned in subsection (2).

18.2.11ZA.2

Those actions are—

18.2.11ZA.2.a

to disregard the duty under section 4(4)(a) and 9(3)(a) to publish things in
printed form,

18.2.11ZA.2.b

to treat the duty under sections 4(4)(b) and 9(3)(b) to make things available
for inspection in a place as a duty to make things available in such manner as
the education authority considers appropriate instead,

18.2.11ZA.2.c

to meet the duty under section 7(1) to hold a public meeting in a place by
holding a meeting using remote facilities instead.

18.2.11ZA.3

A direction may be given under this section only if the Scottish Ministers are
satisfied that giving the direction is a necessary and proportionate action
for or in connection with the protection of public health.

18.2.11ZA.4

A direction given under this section may vary or revoke an earlier direction.

18.2.11ZA.5

A direction under this section—

18.2.11ZA.5.a

may be varied or revoked,

18.2.11ZA.5.b

may relate to one or more relevant proposals,

18.2.11ZA.5.c

may be given subject to such conditions as may be specified in the direction.

18.2.11ZA.6

A direction given under this section must be published in such manner as the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

18.2.11ZA.7

In this section—

      “ protection of public health ” is to be construed in accordance with
section 1(5) of the Public Health etc. (Scotland) Act 2008,           “ remote
facilities ” means any equipment or facility which—         enables persons
who are not in the same place to participate in the meeting, and
enables those persons to speak to and be heard by each other (whether or not
it enables those persons to see and be seen by each other).

.

### Public service reform

#### Bankruptcy

##### Bankruptcy: service of documents

19

19.1

The Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified by subsections (2) and (3).

19.2

After section 224 insert—

########### Service of documents

19.2.224A

19.2.224A.1

Where a provision of this Act or of any regulations made under it authorises
or requires a document to be served on a person (whether the expression
“serve”, “give”, “send” or any other expression is used), the document may be
served on the person—

19.2.224A.1.a

by being delivered personally to the person,

19.2.224A.1.b

by being sent to the proper address of the person—

19.2.224A.1.b.i

by a registered post service (as defined in section 125(1) of the Postal
Services Act 2000), or

19.2.224A.1.b.ii

by a postal service which provides for the delivery of the document to be
recorded, or

19.2.224A.1.c

by being transmitted to the person electronically.

19.2.224A.2

For the purpose of subsection (1)(b), the proper address of a person is—

19.2.224A.2.a

in the case of a body corporate, the address of the registered or principal
office of the body,

19.2.224A.2.b

in the case of a partnership, the address of the principal office of the
partnership,

19.2.224A.2.c

in any other case, the last known address of the person.

19.2.224A.3

Where a document is served as mentioned in subsection (1)(b) on an address in
the United Kingdom it is to be taken to have been received 48 hours after it
is sent unless the contrary is shown.

19.2.224A.4

For the purpose of subsection (1)(c)—

19.2.224A.4.a

electronic transmission of a document must be effected in a way that the
recipient has indicated to the sender that the recipient is willing to receive
the document,

19.2.224A.4.b

the recipient’s indication of willingness to receive a document in a
particular way may be—

19.2.224A.4.b.i

specific to the document in question or generally applicable to documents of
that kind,

19.2.224A.4.b.ii

expressed specifically to the sender or generally (for example on a website),

19.2.224A.4.b.iii

inferred from the recipient having previously been willing to receive
documents from the sender in that way and not having indicated unwillingness
to do so again,

19.2.224A.4.c

the sender’s uploading of a document to an electronic storage system from
which the recipient is able to download the document may constitute electronic
transmission of the document, where the recipient is sent a notification that
the document has been uploaded in that way,

19.2.224A.4.d

a notice transmitted electronically is taken to have been received on the day
of transmission unless the contrary is shown.

19.2.224A.5

This section does not apply where some other form of delivery is required by
rules of court or by order of the court.

.

19.3

Section 187 is repealed.

19.4

The modifications made by subsection (2) have no effect in relation to any
document served before 1 October 2022.

##### Bankruptcy: meaning of “qualified creditor” and “qualified creditors”

20

20.1

The Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified by subsection (2).

20.2

In section 7(1) (qualified creditor and qualified creditors)—

20.2.a

in the definition of “qualified creditor”, for “£3,000” substitute  “£5,000” ,

20.2.b

in the definition of “qualified creditors”, for “£3,000” substitute  “£5,000”
.

20.3

The modifications made by subsection (2) have no effect in relation to any
sequestration in respect of which the petition was presented before 1 October
2022.

##### Bankruptcy: remote meetings of creditors

21

21.1

The Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified as follows.

21.2

In schedule 6 (meetings of creditors and commissioners)—

21.2.a

for paragraph 13 and the italic heading immediately preceding it substitute—

############# Holding of meeting

21.2.a.13

Every meeting must be held either—

21.2.a.13.a

in such place (whether or not in the sheriffdom) as is, in the opinion of the
person calling the meeting, the most convenient for the majority of the
creditors, or

21.2.a.13.b

by such electronic means as would, in the opinion of the person calling the
meeting, be most convenient to allow the majority of the creditors to
participate in the meeting without being together in the same place.

21.2.a.13A

Where a meeting is to be held in pursuance of paragraph 13(b), the references
in paragraphs 4 and 6 to the place fixed for the holding of the meeting are to
be read as references to the electronic means by which attendees are to be
able to attend the meeting without being together in the same place.

,

21.2.b

in paragraph 24—

21.2.b.i

for “and place” substitute  “, and at the same place or by the same electronic
means,” ,

21.2.b.ii

for “in” to “specified” substitute  “the resolution specifies otherwise” .

#### Diligence

##### Bank arrestments: protected minimum balance

22

22.1

The Debtors (Scotland) Act 1987 is modified by subsection (2).

22.2

 In section 73F (protection of minimum balance in certain bank accounts)—

22.2.a

in subsection (3), for “mentioned in subsection (4) below” substitute  “of
£1,000” ,

22.2.b

subsection (4) is repealed,

22.2.c

in subsection (6)—

22.2.c.i

the “and” at the end of paragraph (a)(ii) is repealed,

22.2.c.ii

after paragraph (a), insert—

22.2.c.ii.aa

vary the protected minimum sum mentioned in subsection (3)(a), and

.

22.3

The modifications made by subsection (2) have no effect in relation to an
arrestment executed before 1 November 2022.

##### Period of moratorium on diligence

23

23.1

Section 198 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 (period of moratorium) is
modified as follows.

23.2

In each of the following, for “6 weeks” substitute  “6 months” —

23.2.a

subsection (1)(b)(i),

23.2.b

subsection (3),

23.2.c

subsection (5),

23.2.d

subsection (7).

23.3

In subsection (6)(b), for “13 weeks after the day on which the moratorium
began under subsection (1)(a)” substitute  “7 weeks after the day on which the
moratorium would have ended but for this subsection” .

##### Power to amend period of moratorium on diligence

24

24.1

The Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified as follows.

24.2

In section 198 (period of moratorium), after subsection (8), insert—

24.2.9

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify this section so as to vary
any of the periods specified in subsections (1)(b)(i), (3), (5), (6)(b) or
(7).

.

24.3

In section 225 (regulations: general), in subsection (4)(a), after “194(1)”
insert  “, 198(9)” .

#### Registration of births

##### Giving information of particulars of birth remotely

25

25.1

The Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 is
modified as follows.

25.2

In section 14 (duty to give information of particulars of birth)—

25.2.a

in subsection (1)(b), for “the next following subsection” substitute
“subsection (2)” ,

25.2.b

in subsection (1A)—

25.2.b.i

in the opening words, the word “by” is repealed,

25.2.b.ii

in paragraph (a), before “attending” insert  “by” ,

25.2.b.iii

after paragraph (a), the word “or” is repealed,

25.2.b.iv

for paragraph (b) substitute—

25.2.b.iv.b

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction issued by the registrar, or

25.2.b.iv.c

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction issued by the Registrar General.

,

25.2.c

after subsection (1A) insert—

25.2.c.1B

A person has not discharged the duty under subsection (1) in relation to a
birth until the birth registration form containing the information given by
the person of the prescribed particulars concerning the birth is attested by,
or on behalf of, the person.

25.2.c.1C

References in this section to a birth registration form being attested—

25.2.c.1C.a

by a person are to the person attesting the form—

25.2.c.1C.a.i

in the prescribed manner in the presence of the district registrar, or

25.2.c.1C.a.ii

in a manner approved by the Registrar General,

25.2.c.1C.b

on behalf of a person are to the form being attested by the district registrar
in a manner approved by the Registrar General (once the person has provided
the registrar with any information the registrar requests).

25.2.c.1D

Where there is a way for—

25.2.c.1D.a

a person (“the informant”) to give information of the prescribed particulars
of a birth that does not entail the informant attending personally at a
registration office, or

25.2.c.1D.b

a birth registration form to be attested that does not entail the informant
attesting it in the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the informant to choose whether to give the information, or attest
the form, that way.

.

25.3

After section 14 insert—

########### Directions about giving information of particulars of birth

25.3.14A

25.3.14A.1

A direction under section 14(1A) (b)  may only permit information to be given
in a manner approved by the Registrar General.

25.3.14A.2

A direction under section 14(1A) (c)  may not make different provision for
different areas.

25.3.14A.3

A power to issue a direction under section 14(1A) includes the power to revise
or revoke an earlier direction issued under the power.

25.3.14A.4

Directions under section 14(1A) must be made publicly available.

25.3.14A.5

There is no duty to issue any direction under section 14(1A) (b)  or  (c) .

.

25.4

In section 16 (registrar’s power to require information concerning birth to be
given)—

25.4.a

in subsection (1)—

25.4.a.i

after “requiring him” insert  “before such date (being not less than 8 days
and not more than 15 days after the date of service of the notice) as may be
specified in the notice” ,

25.4.a.ii

paragraph (a) is repealed,

25.4.a.iii

in paragraph (b), after “birth” insert  “in one of the following ways—

25.4.a.iii.i

by attending personally at the registration office for that district and
giving the information to the registrar there; or

25.4.a.iii.ii

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction under section 14(1A)(b) or (c)

,

25.4.a.iv

for paragraph (c) substitute—

25.4.a.iv.c

to either—

25.4.a.iv.c.i

attest, in the prescribed manner, the birth registration form concerning the
birth in the presence of the registrar; or

25.4.a.iv.c.ii

provide the registrar with any information the registrar requests in order for
the registrar to attest the form, in a manner approved by the Registrar
General, on the person’s behalf.

,

25.4.b

in subsection (2), for “him to attend personally as aforesaid” substitute
“the person to do the things mentioned in subsection (1)(b) and (c)” ,

25.4.c

after subsection (3) insert—

25.4.c.3A

Where there is a way for—

25.4.c.3A.a

a person on whom a notice under subsection (1) or (2) is served (“the
informant”) to give information of the prescribed particulars of a birth that
does not entail the informant attending personally at a registration office,
or

25.4.c.3A.b

a birth registration form to be attested that does not entail the informant
attesting it in the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the informant to choose whether to give the information, or attest
the form, that way.

.

25.5

In section 16B(2) (registration of births)—

25.5.a

for “he obtained the attested birth registration by virtue of” substitute
“information was given in a manner permitted by a direction under” ,

25.5.b

after “14(1A)(b)” insert  “or  (c) ” .

25.6

In section 18 (which makes provision about registration by a father not
married to, or in a civil partnership with, the child’s mother)—

25.6.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “that person” to “together with” substitute  “the
birth registration form is to be attested by, or on behalf of, both that
person and” ,

25.6.b

in subsection (1A), for “by him” to “the registrar” substitute  “by, or on
behalf of, that person” ,

25.6.c

after subsection (3) insert—

25.6.c.4

References in this section to a birth registration form being attested—

25.6.c.4.a

by a person are to the person attesting the form—

25.6.c.4.a.i

in the prescribed manner in the presence of the district registrar, or

25.6.c.4.a.ii

in a manner approved by the Registrar General,

25.6.c.4.b

on behalf of a person are to the form being attested by the district registrar
in a manner approved by the Registrar General (once the person has provided
the registrar with any information the registrar requests).

25.6.c.5

Where—

25.6.c.5.a

a person is required by this section to attest a birth registration form, and

25.6.c.5.b

there is a way for the person to do so that does not entail attesting it in
the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the person to choose whether to attest the form that way.

.

25.7

In section 18B (births of children where second female parent by virtue of
section 43 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008)—

25.7.a

in subsection (1)(a), for “woman concerned shall” to “together with”
substitute  “birth registration form is to be attested by, or on behalf of,
both the woman concerned and” ,

25.7.b

in subsection (2), for “in the presence of the registrar” substitute  “, or on
her behalf” ,

25.7.c

after subsection (3) insert—

25.7.c.4

References in this section to a birth registration form being attested—

25.7.c.4.a

by a person are to the person attesting the form—

25.7.c.4.a.i

in the prescribed manner in the presence of the district registrar, or

25.7.c.4.a.ii

in a manner approved by the Registrar General,

25.7.c.4.b

on behalf of a person are to the form being attested by the district registrar
in a manner approved by the Registrar General (once the person has provided
the registrar with any information the registrar requests).

25.7.c.5

Where—

25.7.c.5.a

a person is required by this section to attest a birth registration form, and

25.7.c.5.b

 there is a way for the person to do so that does not entail attesting it in
the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the person to choose whether to attest the form that way.

.

25.8

After section 21 insert—

########### Meaning of birth registration form

25.8.21A

In this Part, references to a birth registration form are to the prescribed
form in which—

25.8.21A.a

a person gives a district registrar information of the prescribed particulars
concerning a birth, or

25.8.21A.b

a district registrar records information of the prescribed particulars
concerning a birth.

.

#### Registration of deaths

##### Funeral director giving information of particulars of death 

26

26.1

The Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 is
modified as follows.

26.2

In section 23 (duty to give information of particulars of death)—

26.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

26.2.a.1ZA

The duty to give information concerning a death imposed by subsection (1) is
discharged in relation to every person upon whom the duty is imposed if the
funeral director responsible for arranging the deceased’s funeral gives the
information to the district registrar for a registration district on behalf of
any of those persons.

26.2.a.1ZB

In  subsection (1ZA) , “funeral director” has the meaning given by section
31(1) of the Certification of Death (Scotland) Act 2011.

,

26.2.b

in subsection (1A), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or  (1ZA) ” .

##### Giving information of particulars of death remotely

27

27.1

The Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 is
modified as follows.

27.2

In section 23 (duty to give information of particulars of death)—

27.2.a

in subsection (1A)—

27.2.a.i

in the opening words, the word “by” is repealed,

27.2.a.ii

in paragraph (a), before “attending” insert  “by” ,

27.2.a.iii

after paragraph (a), the word “or” is repealed,

27.2.a.iv

for paragraph (b) substitute—

27.2.a.iv.b

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction issued by the registrar, or

27.2.a.iv.c

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction issued by the Registrar General.

,

27.2.b

after subsection (1A) insert—

27.2.b.1B

A person has not discharged the duty under subsection (1) by giving
information to a district registrar until the death registration form
containing the information is attested by, or on behalf of, the person.

27.2.b.1C

References in this section to a death registration form being attested—

27.2.b.1C.a

by a person are to the person attesting the form—

27.2.b.1C.a.i

in the prescribed manner in the presence of the district registrar, or

27.2.b.1C.a.ii

 in a manner approved by the Registrar General,

27.2.b.1C.b

on behalf of a person are to the form being attested by the district registrar
in a manner approved by the Registrar General (once the person has provided
the registrar with any information the registrar requests).

27.2.b.1D

Where there is a way for—

27.2.b.1D.a

a person (“the informant”) to give information of the prescribed particulars
concerning a death that does not entail the informant attending personally at
a registration office, or

27.2.b.1D.b

a death registration form to be attested that does not entail the informant
attesting it in the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the informant to choose whether to give the information, or attest
the form, that way.

.

27.3

After section 23 insert—

########### Directions about giving information of particulars of death

27.3.23A

27.3.23A.1

A direction under section 23(1A) (b)  may only permit information to be given
in a manner approved by the Registrar General.

27.3.23A.2

A direction under section 23(1A) (c)  may not make different provision for
different areas.

27.3.23A.3

A power to issue a direction under section 23(1A) includes the power to revise
or revoke an earlier direction issued under the power.

27.3.23A.4

Directions under section 23(1A) must be made publicly available.

27.3.23A.5

There is no duty to issue any direction under section 23(1A) (b)  or  (c) .

.

27.4

In section 25 (registrar’s power to require information concerning death to be
given)—

27.4.a

in subsection (1)—

27.4.a.i

after “requiring him” insert  “before such date (being not less than 8 days
nor more than 15 days after the date of service of the notice) as may be
specified in the notice” ,

27.4.a.ii

paragraph (a) is repealed,

27.4.a.iii

in paragraph (b), after “death” insert  “in one of the following ways—

27.4.a.iii.i

by attending personally at the registration office for that district and
giving the information to the registrar there; or

27.4.a.iii.ii

in a manner permitted in the circumstances (or any circumstances) by a
direction under section 23(1A)(b) or (c)

,

27.4.a.iv

for paragraph (c) substitute—

27.4.a.iv.c

to either—

27.4.a.iv.c.i

attest, in the prescribed manner, the death registration form concerning the
death in the presence of the registrar; or

27.4.a.iv.c.ii

provide the registrar with any information the registrar requests in order for
the registrar to attest the form, in a manner approved by the Registrar
General, on the person’s behalf.

,

27.4.b

in subsection (2), for “him to attend personally as aforesaid” substitute
“the person to do the things mentioned in subsection (1)(b) and (c)” ,

27.4.c

after subsection (3) insert—

27.4.c.3A

Where there is a way for—

27.4.c.3A.a

a person on whom a notice under subsection (1) or (2) is served (“the
informant”) to give information of the particulars required to be registered
concerning a death that does not entail the informant attending personally at
a registration office, or

27.4.c.3A.b

a death registration form to be attested that does not entail the informant
attesting it in the presence of a district registrar,

it is for the informant to choose whether to give the information, or attest
the form, that way.

.

27.5

In section 25B(2) (registration of deaths)—

27.5.a

for “he obtained the attested death registration form by virtue of” substitute
“information was given in a manner permitted by a direction under” ,

27.5.b

after “23(1A)(b)” insert  “or  (c) ” .

27.6

After section 28 insert—

########### Meaning of death registration form

27.6.28ZA

In this Part, references to a death registration form are to the prescribed
form in which—

27.6.28ZA.a

a person gives a district registrar information of the prescribed particulars
concerning a death, or

27.6.28ZA.b

a district registrar records information of the prescribed particulars
concerning a death.

.

#### Further modification of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965

##### Regulations under the 1965 Act 

28

28.1

 The Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act 1965 is
modified as follows.

28.2

 In section 54(1A) (regulations), for “prescribing the form of a register of
marriages under section 32” substitute  “under subsection (1)” .

#### Civil Partnership Register

##### Power to make a register electronic

29

29.1

The Civil Partnership Act 2004 is modified as follows.

29.2

 In section 95 (further provision as to registration), after subsection (3)
insert—

29.2.3ZA

A civil partnership register may, if the Registrar General so determines, be
electronic rather than paper-based.

.

#### Civic licensing

##### Civic licensing: how hearings may be held

30

30.1

The Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 is modified as follows.

30.2

In schedule 1 (licensing: further provisions as to the general system), after
paragraph 18A insert—

########### How hearings may be held

30.2.18B

30.2.18B.1

A licensing authority may determine that a hearing is to be held—

30.2.18B.1.a

in person,

30.2.18B.1.b

wholly through the use of remote facilities, or

30.2.18B.1.c

partly in person and partly through the use of remote facilities.

30.2.18B.2

When determining how a hearing is to be held, a licensing authority must take
account of any views given on that issue by any person who notifies the
authority of an intention to participate in the hearing.

30.2.18B.3

In  sub-paragraph (1) , “remote facilities” means any equipment or facility
which—

30.2.18B.3.a

enables persons who are not in the same place to participate in the hearing,
and

30.2.18B.3.b

enables those persons to speak to and be heard by each other (whether or not
it enables those persons to see and be seen by each other).

.

30.3

In schedule 2 (control of sex shops and sexual entertainment venues), after
paragraph 24A insert—

########### How hearings may be held

30.3.24B

30.3.24B.1

A local authority may determine that a hearing is to be held—

30.3.24B.1.a

in person,

30.3.24B.1.b

wholly through the use of remote facilities, or

30.3.24B.1.c

partly in person and partly through the use of remote facilities.

30.3.24B.2

When determining how a hearing is to be held, a local authority must take
account of any views given on that issue by any person who notifies the
authority of an intention to participate in the hearing.

30.3.24B.3

In  sub-paragraph (1) , “remote facilities” means any equipment or facility
which—

30.3.24B.3.a

enables persons who are not in the same place to participate in the hearing,
and

30.3.24B.3.b

enables those persons to speak to and be heard by each other (whether or not
it enables those persons to see and be seen by each other).

.

##### Civic licensing: how notices may be published

31

31.1

The Civic Government (Scotland) Act 1982 is modified as follows.

31.2

In paragraph 2(8) of schedule 1 (licensing: further provisions as to the
general system), after “the authority” insert  “, or by publication of a
notice on the licensing authority’s website,” .

31.3

In paragraph 7(2) of schedule 2 (control of sex shops and sexual entertainment
venues), after “area” insert  “, or by publishing an advertisement on the
local authority’s website,” .

31.4

In section 45B(6)(d) (licensing of sexual entertainment venues)—

31.4.a

sub-paragraph (i) is repealed,

31.4.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), sub-paragraphs (3A) and (3B) of the inserted text are
repealed.

#### Alcohol licensing

##### Alcohol licensing: how hearings may be held

32

32.1

The Licensing (Scotland) Act 2005 is modified as follows.

32.2

After section 133 insert—

########### How hearings may be held

32.2.133A

32.2.133A.1

A Licensing Board may determine that a hearing is to be held—

32.2.133A.1.a

in person,

32.2.133A.1.b

wholly through the use of remote facilities, or

32.2.133A.1.c

partly in person and partly through the use of remote facilities.

32.2.133A.2

When determining how a hearing is to be held, a Licensing Board must take
account of any views given on that issue by any person who notifies the Board
of an intention to participate in the hearing.

32.2.133A.3

In subsection (1), “remote facilities” means any equipment or facility which—

32.2.133A.3.a

enables persons who are not in the same place to participate in the hearing,
and

32.2.133A.3.b

enables those persons to speak to and be heard by each other (whether or not
it enables those persons to see and be seen by each other).

.

32.3

In paragraph 12 of schedule 1 (proceedings)—

32.3.a

before sub-paragraph (1) insert—

32.3.a.A1

A Licensing Board may determine that a meeting is to be held—

32.3.a.A1.a

in person,

32.3.a.A1.b

wholly through the use of remote facilities, or

32.3.a.A1.c

partly in person and partly through the use of remote facilities.

32.3.a.A2

When determining how a meeting is to be held, a Licensing Board must take
account of any views given on that issue by any person who notifies the Board
of an intention to participate in the meeting.

,

32.3.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

32.3.b.2A

Where a meeting is held wholly or partly through the use of remote facilities,
a Licensing Board complies with the requirement mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)
by enabling the public to observe the meeting through the use of remote
facilities (for example, by making a web link to the meeting publicly
available).

,

32.3.c

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

32.3.c.7

In this paragraph, “remote facilities” means any equipment or facility which—

32.3.c.7.a

enables persons who are not in the same place to participate in the meeting,
and

32.3.c.7.b

enables those persons to speak to and be heard by each other (whether or not
it enables those person to see and be seen by each other).

.

#### Land registration

##### Electronic submission of copies of deeds and writs to Registers of Scotland

33

33.1

The Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012 is modified by subsection  (2)
.

33.2

In section 21 (application for registration of deed), after subsection (4)
insert—

33.2.5

For the purposes of this section, submission by electronic means of a copy of
the deed is sufficient evidence of the original for the purposes of accepting
an application for registration.

33.2.6

But subsection (5) applies only where submission of the copy is by a means
(and in a form) which is specified on the Keeper’s website as being
acceptable.

33.2.7

In subsection (5), the reference to submission by electronic means is to
submission—

33.2.7.a

by means of an electronic communications network (for example as an attachment
to an email), or

33.2.7.b

by other means but in a form which requires the use of electronic apparatus by
the recipient to render the thing delivered intelligible.

33.2.8

In this section—

      “ electronic communications network ” has the meaning given by section
32 of the Communications Act 2003,           “ the Keeper’s website ” means
the website maintained by, or on behalf of, the Keeper of the Registers of
Scotland.

.

33.3

The Land Registers (Scotland) Act 1868 is modified by subsection  (4) .

33.4

In section 6A (provision for writs transmitted electronically to general
register of sasines)—

33.4.a

in subsection (1), the words “which is an electronic document” are repealed,

33.4.b

after subsection (5) insert—

33.4.b.6

For the purposes of this section, submission by electronic means of a copy of
the writ is sufficient evidence of the original for the purposes of accepting
an application.

33.4.b.7

But subsection (6) applies only where submission of the copy is by a means
(and in a form) which is specified on the Keeper’s website as being
acceptable.

33.4.b.8

In subsection (6), the reference to submission by electronic means is to
submission—

33.4.b.8.a

by means of an electronic communications network (for example as an attachment
to an email), or

33.4.b.8.b

by other means but in a form which requires the use of electronic apparatus by
the recipient to render the thing delivered intelligible.

33.4.b.9

In this section—

      “ electronic communications network ” has the meaning given by section
32 of the Communications Act 2003,           “ the Keeper’s website ” means
the website maintained by, or on behalf of, the Keeper of the Registers of
Scotland.

.

##### Register of Inhibitions: electronic signature of documents

34

34.1

The Bankruptcy and Diligence etc. (Scotland) Act 2007 is modified as follows.

34.2

After section 148 insert—

########### Register of Inhibitions: electronic signature of documents

34.2.148A

34.2.148A.1

This section applies in relation to a document which is required or permitted
to be registered or recorded in the Register of Inhibitions.

34.2.148A.2

An electronic signature fulfils any requirement (however expressed) that the
document be signed in order to be registered or recorded in the Register.

34.2.148A.3

Any requirement (however expressed) that the document be given to the Keeper
in order to be registered or recorded in the Register may be fulfilled by
transmitting it to the Keeper electronically.

34.2.148A.4

For the purposes of subsection (3), the document must be transmitted by a
means (and in a form) which is specified on the Keeper’s website as being
acceptable for those purposes.

34.2.148A.5

In this section—

      “ document ” includes a copy of a document,           “ electronic
signature ” is to be construed in accordance with section 7(2) of the
Electronic Communications Act 2000, but includes a version of an electronic
signature which is reproduced on a paper document,           “ the Keeper ”
means the Keeper of the Registers of Scotland,           “ the Keeper’s
website ” means the website maintained by, or on behalf of, the Keeper of the
Registers of Scotland.

.

#### Legal aid and advice

##### Claim for interim payment of fees and outlays

35

35.1

The Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 is modified by subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

35.2

In section 4 (Scottish Legal Aid Fund)—

35.2.a

in subsection (2)—

35.2.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “section 4A(13)” substitute  “sections 4A(13) and 33 (6)
” ,

35.2.a.ii

after paragraph (ac) insert—

35.2.a.ii.ad

such sums as are, by virtue of  section 33ZB  of this Act, due out of the Fund
to a solicitor or counsel in connection with the provision of legal aid or
advice and assistance;

,

35.2.b

in subsection (3), after paragraph (ad) insert—

35.2.b.ae

any sums payable to the Board by a solicitor or counsel by virtue of  section
33ZC  of this Act;

.

35.3

In section 33 (fees and outlays of solicitors and counsel)—

35.3.a

after subsection (3B) insert—

35.3.a.3BA

But subsection (3B) does not preclude a solicitor from being paid out of the
Fund under section 4(2) (ad)  following a claim for interim payment made under
section 33ZB  in respect of the professional services and outlays mentioned in
subsection (3A).

,

35.3.b

in subsection (3C), the word “however,” is repealed,

35.3.c

after subsection (5) insert—

35.3.c.6

Where a sum is paid out of the Fund under section 4(2) (ad)  in connection
with the provision of legal aid or advice and assistance, that sum must be
deducted from the sum payable to the solicitor or counsel under section
4(2)(a) in connection with the provision of the legal aid or advice and
assistance.

.

35.4

After section 33ZA insert—

########### Interim payments to solicitors and counsel

############ Claim for interim payment

35.4.33ZB

35.4.33ZB.1

A claim for interim payment may be submitted to the Board by—

35.4.33ZB.1.a

a solicitor who is acting for a person by providing legal aid or advice and
assistance under this Act,

35.4.33ZB.1.b

counsel who is acting for a person by providing legal aid under this Act.

35.4.33ZB.2

A claim for interim payment must—

35.4.33ZB.2.a

be submitted in the manner specified by the Board,

35.4.33ZB.2.b

include a declaration from the solicitor or (as the case may be) counsel that
the sum claimed does not exceed the sum that the solicitor or counsel would
expect to be paid under section 4(2)(a) in connection with the provision of
the legal aid or advice and assistance.

35.4.33ZB.3

If a claim for interim payment is submitted to the Board, the sum claimed must
be paid out of the Fund in accordance with section 4(2) (ad)  to the solicitor
or counsel who submitted the claim.

35.4.33ZB.4

But the Board may reject the claim if it appears to it that the sum claimed is
likely to exceed the sum it would expect to be payable to the solicitor or
counsel under section 4(2)(a) in connection with the provision of the legal
aid or advice and assistance.

35.4.33ZB.5

In forming an expectation about the sum payable under section 4(2)(a), for the
purposes of subsections  (2)  and  (4) , no account is to be taken of the
deduction that would be made under section 33 (6)  if the claim for interim
payment were met.

############ Recovery where interim payment excessive

35.4.33ZC

35.4.33ZC.1

This section applies where—

35.4.33ZC.1.a

a sum has been paid out of the Fund under section 4(2) (ad)  to a solicitor or
counsel while providing legal aid or advice and assistance, and

35.4.33ZC.1.b

the solicitor or counsel is no longer providing the legal aid or advice and
assistance.

35.4.33ZC.2

Where the sum paid out of the Fund exceeds the sum that would, but for section
33(6), be payable under section 4(2)(a) in connection with the provision of
the legal aid or advice and assistance, the solicitor or (as the case may be)
counsel is liable to the Board for the difference between the sums.

35.4.33ZC.3

A firm is jointly and severally liable for a sum owed by a solicitor to the
Board by virtue of  subsection (2)  if the interim payment referred to in that
subsection was made to the firm on the solicitor’s instruction.

35.4.33ZC.4

Where—

35.4.33ZC.4.a

a firm is jointly and severally liable to the Board for a sum by virtue of
subsection (3) , and

35.4.33ZC.4.b

a separate sum is due to be paid out of the Fund to the firm, on the
instruction of a solicitor,

the Board may deduct all or part of the sum mentioned in  paragraph (a)  from
the sum mentioned in  paragraph (b) .

35.4.33ZC.5

This section is without prejudice to any other enactment or rule of law under
which the difference between the sums mentioned in  subsection (2)  may be
recovered.

.

35.5

Regulation 11 of the Civil Legal Aid (Scotland) (Fees) Regulations 1989 ( S.I.
1989/1490 ) is revoked.

#### Freedom of information

##### Freedom of information: giving notice electronically

36

36.1

The Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002 is modified as follows.

36.2

In section 74(1)(a) (giving of notice etc.)—

36.2.a

after sub-paragraph (i), the word “or” is repealed,

36.2.b

after sub-paragraph (ii) insert  “, or

36.2.b.iii

transmitted by electronic means,

.

#### Mental health

##### Mental health: removal of need for witnessing of signature of nominated person

37

37.1

The Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003 is modified as
follows.

37.2

In section 250(2A) (nomination of named person)—

37.2.a

after paragraph (b), the word “and” is repealed,

37.2.b

paragraph (c) is repealed.

#### Care services

##### Care services: giving of notices by SCSWIS

38

38.1

The Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010 is modified as follows.

38.2

For section 101 (giving of notice) substitute—

########### Giving of notice

38.2.101

38.2.101.1

In Chapters 3 and 4, any reference to a notice being given to a person
providing, or seeking to provide, a care service is to be construed as a
reference to its being—

38.2.101.1.a

delivered, where the person is—

38.2.101.1.a.i

an individual, to that individual,

38.2.101.1.a.ii

a body corporate, to a director, secretary or other similar officer of that
body or to a manager (or other similar officer) of the care service provided
by that body,

38.2.101.1.a.iii

a firm, to a partner of that firm,

38.2.101.1.b

sent by post, properly addressed to the person—

38.2.101.1.b.i

by a registered post service (as defined in section 125(1) of the Postal
Services Act 2000), or

38.2.101.1.b.ii

by a postal service which provides for the delivery of the document to be
recorded, or

38.2.101.1.c

transmitted to the person electronically.

38.2.101.2

In subsection (1)(a)(ii), “manager”, in relation to a care service provided by
a body corporate, means the manager whose name is entered in the register
maintained under regulation 5 of the Social Care and Social Work Improvement
Scotland (Registration) Regulations 2011 ( S.S.I. 2011/28 ) in relation to the
care service.

38.2.101.3

For the purpose of subsection (1)(b)—

38.2.101.3.a

 a letter is properly addressed to—

38.2.101.3.a.i

a body corporate, if addressed to the body at its registered or principal
office,

38.2.101.3.a.ii

a firm, if addressed to the firm at its principal office,

38.2.101.3.a.iii

any other person, if addressed to the person at the address last known,

38.2.101.3.b

a notice sent by post is to be taken to have been received on the third day
after the day of posting unless the contrary is shown.

38.2.101.4

For the purpose of subsection (1)(c)—

38.2.101.4.a

electronic transmission of a notice must be effected in a way that the person
has indicated to SCSWIS that the person is willing to receive the notice,

38.2.101.4.b

the person’s willingness to receive a notice in a particular way may be—

38.2.101.4.b.i

specific to the notice in question or generally applicable to notices or other
documents of that kind,

38.2.101.4.b.ii

expressed specifically to SCSWIS or generally (for example on a website),

38.2.101.4.b.iii

inferred from the person having previously been willing to receive notices or
other documents from SCSWIS in that way and not having indicated an
unwillingness to do so again,

38.2.101.4.c

SCSWIS’ uploading of a notice to an electronic storage system from which the
person is able to download the notice may constitute electronic transmission
of the notice from SCSWIS to the person, where the person is sent a
notification that the notice has been uploaded in that way,

38.2.101.4.d

a notice transmitted electronically is to be taken to have been received on
the day of transmission unless the contrary is shown.

.

#### Requirements of writing

##### Disapplication of physical presence requirements 

39

39.1

The Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995 is modified as follows.

39.2

In section 9(6) (subscription on behalf of blind granter or granter unable to
write), after “this Act” insert  “(other than section 10A)” .

39.3

After section 10 insert—

########### Disapplication of physical presence requirements

39.3.10A

39.3.10A.1

The following requirements (however expressed) do not apply—

39.3.10A.1.a

a requirement for a relevant person to be physically in the same place as
another person when that person—

39.3.10A.1.a.i

signs or subscribes a document or an alteration of a document,

39.3.10A.1.a.ii

takes an oath, or

39.3.10A.1.a.iii

makes an affirmation or declaration,

39.3.10A.1.b

a requirement for another person to be physically in the same place as a
relevant person when the relevant person signs or subscribes a document or an
alteration of a document.

39.3.10A.2

In this section—

      “ relevant person ” means—         a solicitor,            an advocate,
a notary public,                  “ requirement ” means a requirement arising
from an enactment or rule of law.

39.3.10A.3

For the avoidance of doubt—

39.3.10A.3.a

the requirements described by  subsection (1) (a)  include a requirement that
may be fulfilled by the physical presence of a professional of a type not
mentioned in the definition of “relevant person” as well as by a professional
of a type that is (for example, it includes a requirement for the physical
presence of a solicitor or a registered medical practitioner), but

39.3.10A.3.b

subsection (1)  only causes such a requirement not to apply in relation to a
professional of a type that is mentioned in the definition of “relevant
person.

.

#### Custody at police stations

##### Custody officers’ functions

40

40.1

The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 is modified by  subsection (2)
.

40.2

In—

40.2.a

section 102(2) (arrangements for the provision of prisoner escorts), after
paragraph (b) insert—

40.2.a.ba

the custody of prisoners held in a police station and their production, by
electronic means from the station, before a court;

,

40.2.b

section 104(4) (powers and duties of prisoner custody officers performing
escort functions), for “on any premises” to “he” substitute  “—

40.2.b.a

on any premises in which a court of summary jurisdiction is sitting; or

40.2.b.b

in a police station and has the custody of a prisoner who is, from the
station, before a court of summary jurisdiction by electronic means,

the officer

.

40.3

The Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012 is modified by  subsection (4)
.

40.4

In schedule 2 (police custody and security officers: powers and duties), after
paragraph 1(b) insert—

40.4.ba

to have custody of persons held in legal custody in a police station for the
purpose of effecting their production, by electronic means from the station,
before a court,

.

40.5

The Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified by  subsection (6) .

40.6

In section 64 (meaning of police custody), after subsection (2) insert—

40.6.3

A person who is at a police station in the custody of a prisoner custody
officer is not to be regarded as having been transferred into the custody of
that officer for the purposes of subsection (2)(cb).

40.6.4

In  subsection (3) , “prisoner custody officer” has the meaning given in
section 114(1) of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994.

.

40.7

The Inquiries into Fatal Accidents and Sudden Deaths etc. (Scotland) Act 2016
is modified by  subsection (8) .

40.8

In section 2(5)(b) (mandatory inquiries), after “2016” insert  “, or otherwise
in custody at a police station” .

#### Parole Board for Scotland

##### Chairperson’s functions

41

41.1

The Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 is modified as
follows.

41.2

In schedule 2 (the Parole Board), after paragraph 2J insert—

########### Exercise of chairperson’s functions by other members

41.2.2K

41.2.2K.1

A function conferred on the chairperson of the Parole Board may be exercised
by another member of the Parole Board in accordance with the scheme prepared
under  sub-paragraph (3) .

41.2.2K.2

Another member’s being authorised by the scheme to exercise one of the
chairperson’s functions does not preclude the chairperson from exercising that
function.

41.2.2K.3

The chairperson must prepare a scheme that authorises another member, or
members, to exercise the functions conferred on the chairperson.

41.2.2K.4

The scheme—

41.2.2K.4.a

must be framed so that a member is, or a combination of members are,
authorised to discharge all of the chairperson’s functions in the following
circumstances—

41.2.2K.4.a.i

there is no chairperson,

41.2.2K.4.a.ii

the chairperson is unable to exercise the functions for any reason (for
example due to ill health), and

41.2.2K.4.b

may be framed so that, outwith those circumstances, other members are
authorised to discharge any, or all, of the chairperson’s functions either at
any time or in circumstances specified by the scheme.

41.2.2K.5

The chairperson may modify the scheme at any time.

41.2.2K.6

The Parole Board must make the scheme publicly available.

41.2.2K.7

Only the chairperson may prepare and modify the scheme; accordingly, the
references to the chairperson’s functions elsewhere in this paragraph do not
include the functions of preparing and modifying the scheme.

.

#### Children’s hearings

##### Members of children’s hearings 

42

42.1

The Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 is modified as follows.

42.2

In section 6(3) (selection of members of children's hearing), at the beginning
of paragraph (a), insert  “so far as practicable,” .

### Tenancies

#### Removal of mandatory eviction grounds

##### Private residential tenancies: discretionary eviction grounds

43

43.1

The Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified as follows.

43.2

In section 51(2) (First-tier Tribunal’s power to issue an eviction order), the
words “or must” are repealed.

43.3

In schedule 3 (eviction grounds)—

43.3.a

in paragraph 1(2) (landlord intends to sell)—

43.3.a.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.a.ii

after paragraph (a), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.a.iii

after paragraph (b) insert  “, and

43.3.a.iii.c

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.b

in paragraph 2(2) (property to be sold by lender)—

43.3.b.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.b.ii

after paragraph (b), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.b.iii

after paragraph (c) insert  “, and

43.3.b.iii.d

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.c

in paragraph 3(2) (landlord intends to refurbish)—

43.3.c.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.c.ii

after paragraph (b), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.c.iii

after paragraph (c) insert  “, and

43.3.c.iii.d

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.d

in paragraph 4(2) (landlord intends to live in property)—

43.3.d.i

for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.d.ii

the words from “the landlord” to “3 months” become paragraph (a),

43.3.d.iii

after paragraph (a) insert  “, and

43.3.d.iii.b

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of that fact.

,

43.3.e

in paragraph 6(2) (landlord intends to use for non-residential purpose)—

43.3.e.i

for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.e.ii

the words from “the landlord” to “home” become paragraph (a),

43.3.e.iii

after paragraph (a) insert  “, and

43.3.e.iii.b

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of that fact.

,

43.3.f

in paragraph 7(2) (property required for religious purpose)—

43.3.f.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.f.ii

after paragraph (b), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.f.iii

after paragraph (c) insert  “, and

43.3.f.iii.d

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.g

in paragraph 8 (not an employee)—

43.3.g.i

in the opening words of sub-paragraph (2), for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.g.ii

for sub-paragraph (2)(c) substitute—

43.3.g.ii.c

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.g.iii

sub-paragraph (3) is repealed,

43.3.g.iv

in sub-paragraph (4), for “sub-paragraphs (2) and (3)” substitute  “sub-
paragraph (2)” ,

43.3.h

in paragraph 10(2) (not occupying let property)—

43.3.h.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.h.ii

after paragraph (a), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.h.iii

after paragraph (b) insert  “, and

43.3.h.iii.c

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.i

in paragraph 12 (rent arrears), sub-paragraph (2) is repealed,

43.3.j

in paragraph 13(2) (criminal behaviour)—

43.3.j.i

in the opening words, for “must” substitute  “may” ,

43.3.j.ii

after paragraph (a), the word “and” is repealed,

43.3.j.iii

after paragraph (b) insert  “, and

43.3.j.iii.c

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of those facts.

,

43.3.k

in paragraph 14(2) (anti-social behaviour), after paragraph (b), for “and”
substitute—

43.3.k.ba

the Tribunal is satisfied that it is reasonable to issue an eviction order on
account of that fact, and

.

##### Assured tenancies: discretionary eviction grounds

44

44.1

The Housing (Scotland) Act 1988 is modified as follows.

44.2

In section 18 (orders for possession)—

44.2.a

subsections (3) and (3A) are repealed,

44.2.b

in subsection (4), for “Part II” substitute  “Part I or II” ,

44.2.c

in subsection (6)(a), the words “or Ground 8” are repealed,

44.2.d

in subsection (8), for “subsections (3A) and (4A)” substitute  “subsection
(4A)” .

44.3

In section 19 (notice of proceedings for possession), subsection (5) is
repealed.

44.4

In section 20 (extended discretion of First-tier Tribunal in possession
claims)—

44.4.a

in subsection (1), for “Subject to subsection (6) below, the” substitute
“The” ,

44.4.b

subsection (6) is repealed.

44.5

In section 33(1) (recovery of possession on termination of a short assured
tenancy)—

44.5.a

in the opening words, for “shall” substitute  “may” ,

44.5.b

after paragraph (b), the word “and” is repealed,

44.5.c

after paragraph (d) insert  “, and

44.5.c.e

that it is reasonable to make an order for possession.

.

44.6

In schedule 5 (grounds for possession of houses let on assured tenancies)—

44.6.a

in Part I, Ground 8 is repealed,

44.6.b

the heading of Part I becomes  “Certain grounds on which First-tier Tribunal
may order possession” ,

44.6.c

the heading of Part II becomes  “Further grounds on which First-tier Tribunal
may order possession” .

##### Tenancies under the Rent (Scotland) Act 1984: discretionary eviction grounds

45

45.1

The Rent (Scotland) Act 1984 is modified as follows.

45.2

In section 11 (grounds for possession of certain dwelling-houses)—

45.2.a

in subsection (1)(b), after “Part I” insert  “or II” ,

45.2.b

subsection (2) is repealed.

45.3

In section 12 (extended discretion of Tribunal)—

45.3.a

in subsection (1), the words “Subject to subsection (5) below,” are repealed,

45.3.b

in subsection (2), the words “, subject to subsection (5) below,” are
repealed,

45.3.c

subsection (5) is repealed.

45.4

In section 14 (conditions applying to recovery of short tenancies)—

45.4.a

in subsection (1), after “Act” insert  “provided the First-tier Tribunal
considers it reasonable to allow such recovery” ,

45.4.b

in subsection (3)—

45.4.b.i

the words from “a landlord” to “above,” become paragraph (a),

45.4.b.ii

after paragraph (a) insert  “or

45.4.b.ii.b

the First-tier Tribunal does not consider it reasonable to allow recovery in
accordance with the said Case 15,

,

45.4.b.iii

the words from “the tenancy shall” to “this subsection.” become the closing
words.

45.5

In schedule 2 (grounds for possession for protected or statutory tenancies)—

45.5.a

the heading of Part I becomes  “Certain cases in which First-tier Tribunal may
order possession” ,

45.5.b

the heading of Part II becomes  “Further cases in which First-tier Tribunal
may order possession” .

#### Pre-action protocol in respect of evictions relating to rent arrears

##### Private residential tenancies: pre-action protocol

46

46.1

The Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016 is modified as follows.

46.2

In paragraph 12 of schedule 3 (rent arrears)—

46.2.a

in sub-paragraph (4)—

46.2.a.i

the words from “whether the” to “benefit” become paragraph (a),

46.2.a.ii

after paragraph (a) insert  “, and

46.2.a.ii.b

the extent to which the landlord has complied with the pre-action protocol
prescribed by the Scottish Ministers in regulations.

,

46.2.b

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

46.2.b.6

Regulations under sub-paragraph (4)(b) may make provision about—

46.2.b.6.a

information which should be provided by a landlord to a tenant (including
information about the terms of the tenancy, rent arrears and any other
outstanding financial obligation under the tenancy),

46.2.b.6.b

steps which should be taken by a landlord with a view to seeking to agree
arrangements with a tenant for payment of future rent, rent arrears and any
other outstanding financial obligation under the tenancy,

46.2.b.6.c

such other matters as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

.

46.3

In section 77(3) (regulation-making powers), after “41” insert  “and paragraph
12(4)(b) of schedule 3” .

##### Assured tenancies: pre-action protocol

47

47.1

The Housing (Scotland) Act 1988 is modified as follows.

47.2

In section 18 (orders for possession)—

47.2.a

in subsection (4A)—

47.2.a.i

the words from “the extent” to “universal credit” become paragraph (a),

47.2.a.ii

after paragraph (a) insert  “, and

47.2.a.ii.b

the extent to which the landlord has complied with the pre-action protocol
specified by the Scottish Ministers in regulations.

,

47.2.b

after subsection (8) insert—

47.2.b.9

Regulations under subsection (4A)(b) may make provision about—

47.2.b.9.a

information which should be provided by a landlord to a tenant (including
information about the terms of the tenancy, rent arrears and any other
outstanding financial obligation under the tenancy),

47.2.b.9.b

steps which should be taken by a landlord with a view to seeking to agree
arrangements with a tenant for payment of future rent, rent arrears and any
other outstanding financial obligation under the tenancy,

47.2.b.9.c

such other matters as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

47.2.b.10

Regulations under subsection (4A)(b) are subject to the affirmative procedure
(see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (asp 10)).

.

47.3

In section 53(2) (orders and regulations), after “above” insert  “or
regulations under section 18(4A)(b)” .

#### Saving and transitional provision

##### Tenancies: saving provision

48

48.1

In relation to a notice to leave (within the meaning of section 62 of the 2016
Act) served on a tenant before 1 October 2022—

48.1.a

the 2016 Act continues to apply in accordance with the modifications made by
paragraph 1 of schedule 1 of the 2020 Act and paragraph 5 of schedule 1 of the
2020 (No.2)  Act (despite those paragraphs’ expiry),

48.1.b

the 2020 Regulations continue to apply (despite regulation 1 of those
Regulations and the expiry of paragraph 5 of schedule 1 of the  2020 (No.2)
Act),

48.1.c

the modifications made to the 2016 Act by sections 33 and 36 of this Act do
not apply.

48.2

In relation to a notice served on a tenant under section 19 or 33(1)(d) of the
1988 Act before 1 October 2022—

48.2.a

the 1988 Act continues to apply in accordance with the modifications made by
paragraph 3 of schedule 1 of the 2020 Act and paragraph 4 of schedule 1 of the
2020 (No.2)  Act (despite those paragraphs’ expiry),

48.2.b

the 2020 Regulations continue to apply (despite regulation 1 of those
Regulations and the expiry of paragraph 4 of schedule 1 of the  2020 (No.2)
Act),

48.2.c

the modifications made to the 1988 Act by sections 34 and 37 of this Act do
not apply.

48.3

In relation to a notice served on a tenant in accordance with section 112(1)
of the 1984 Act before 1 October 2022—

48.3.a

the 1984 Act continues to apply in accordance with the modifications made by
paragraph 5 of schedule 1 of the 2020 Act (despite that paragraph’s expiry),

48.3.b

the modifications made to the 1984 Act by section 35 of this Act do not apply.

48.4

In this section—

      “ the 1984 Act ” means the Rent (Scotland) Act 1984,           “ the
1988 Act ” means the Housing (Scotland) Act 1988,           “ the 2016 Act ”
means the Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016,           “ the
2020 Act ” means the Coronavirus (Scotland) Act 2020,           “ the  2020
(No.2)  Act ” means the Coronavirus (Scotland) (No.2) Act 2020,           “
the 2020 Regulations ” means the Rent Arrears Pre-Action Requirements
(Coronavirus) (Scotland) Regulations 2020 ( S.S.I. 2020/304 ).

##### Tenancies: transitional provision

49

49.1

The 2020 Regulations continue in force (despite regulation 1 of those
Regulations and the expiry of paragraphs 4 and 5 of schedule 1 of the  2020
(No.2)  Act).

49.2

They are deemed to have been made under the powers conferred by section
18(4A)(b) of the 1988 Act and paragraph 12(4)(b) of schedule 3 of the 2016
Act.

49.3

In the 2020 Regulations—

49.3.a

references to the pre-action requirements are to be read as references to the
pre-action protocol,

49.3.b

the reference in regulation 3 to section 18(3C) is to be read as a reference
to section 18(4A)(b),

49.3.c

the reference in regulation 4 to paragraph 12(3B) is to be read as a reference
to paragraph 12(4)(b).

49.4

Nothing in this section affects the 2020 Regulations insofar as they continue
to apply by virtue of section 48.

49.5

In this section—

      “ the 1988 Act ” means the Housing (Scotland) Act 1988,           “ the
2016 Act ” means the Private Housing (Tenancies) (Scotland) Act 2016,
“ the  2020 (No.2)  Act ” means the Coronavirus (Scotland) (No.2) Act 2020,
“ the 2020 Regulations ” means the Rent Arrears Pre-Action Requirements
(Coronavirus) (Scotland) Regulations 2020 ( S.S.I. 2020/304 ).

### Temporary justice measures

#### Temporary provisions

##### The measures

50

The schedule  contains temporary modifications to the law.

##### Power to suspend and revive

51

51.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

51.1.a

suspend the operation of any provision in the schedule,

51.1.b

revive the operation of a provision so suspended.

51.2

Sections 15 to 17 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (effect of repeals) apply to the suspension of a provision by regulations
under  subsection (1) (a)  as if the provision had been repealed by an Act.

51.3

The powers in  subsection (1)  may be exercised more than once in relation to
the same provision.

##### Expiry

52

52.1

The temporary modifications to the law in the schedule expire at the end of
30 November 2024 .

52.2

Subsection  (1)  is subject to the power to bring expiry forward under
section 53 .

52.3

The Scottish Ministers—

52.3.a

may by regulations modify  subsection (1)  so that it specifies a date one
year later than the date for the time being specified, but

52.3.b

may not, by virtue of this subsection, modify  subsection (1)  so that it
specifies a date later than 30 November 2025.

52.4

Ahead of any provision in the schedule expiring by virtue of subsection (1),
the Scottish Ministers must carry out a review of its operation in order to
decide whether the date of its expiry should be put back by virtue of
subsection (3).

52.5

Subsection (4) does not apply if the date specified in subsection (1) is 30
November 2025.

52.6

In carrying out a review under subsection (4), the Scottish Ministers must
consult any person they consider appropriate.

52.7

At the same time as laying a draft Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (3) before the Scottish Parliament in accordance
with section 29(2) of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (instruments subject to the affirmative procedure), the Scottish
Ministers must lay before the Parliament a statement summarising—

52.7.a

their reasons for proposing that the regulations be made,

52.7.b

the findings of the latest review carried out under subsection (4),

52.7.c

what consultation they undertook in carrying out that review.

##### Power to bring expiry forward

53

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that any provision in the
schedule—

53.a

does not expire at the time when it would otherwise expire (whether by virtue
of  section 52  or previous regulations under this section), and

53.b

expires instead at such earlier time as is specified in the regulations.

##### Regulations under this Part

54

54.1

A power to make regulations conferred by this Part includes the power to make
different provision for different purposes.

54.2

Regulations under sections  51  and  53  are subject to the negative
procedure.

54.3

Regulations under  section 52  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Supporting provisions

##### Criminal procedure time limits: consequential modifications

55

55.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 is modified as follows.

55.2

In section 52T(4) (prevention of delay in trials: assessment orders and
treatment orders)—

55.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “the total periods of 80 days, 110 days and 140 days”
substitute  “any period” ,

55.2.b

in paragraph (b), the word “total” is repealed,

55.2.c

in paragraph (c)—

55.2.c.i

for “total of 40 days” substitute  “period” ,

55.2.c.ii

before “section” insert  “subsection (1) of” .

55.3

In section 65 (solemn proceedings: prevention of delay in trials)—

55.3.a

in subsection (3), for “either or both of the periods of 11 and 12 months”, in
both places where it occurs, substitute  “any period” ,

55.3.b

in subsection (10)—

55.3.b.i

for “the periods of 11 and 12 months specified in subsections (1) and (3)
above” substitute  “any period specified in subsection (1) (including any such
period as extended)” ,

55.3.b.ii

for “detained” substitute  “in lawful custody” ,

55.3.b.iii

the words from “in any prison” to the end of the subsection are repealed.

55.4

In section 71B (first diet: appointment of trial date)—

55.4.a

in subsection (3)—

55.4.a.i

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.4.a.ii

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(b)(ii)” ,

55.4.b

in subsection (4), for “12 month period” substitute  “period specified in
section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.4.c

in subsection (5)—

55.4.c.i

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(b)(ii)” ,

55.4.c.ii

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.4.d

in subsection (6)—

55.4.d.i

for “140 day period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(4)(b)(ii)” ,

55.4.d.ii

for “12 month period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.4.e

in subsection (7)—

55.4.e.i

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(b)(ii)” ,

55.4.e.ii

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.4.f

for subsection (10) substitute—

55.4.f.10

In this section a reference to the period specified in section 65(1)(b) or
section 65(4)(b)(ii) is to be construed as including that period as extended.

.

55.5

In section 72A (preliminary hearing: appointment of trial diet)—

55.5.a

in subsection (3)—

55.5.a.i

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.5.a.ii

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(aa)(ii)” ,

55.5.b

in subsection (4), for “12 month period” substitute  “period specified in
section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.5.c

in subsection (5)—

55.5.c.i

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(aa)(ii)” ,

55.5.c.ii

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.5.d

in subsection (6)—

55.5.d.i

for “140 day period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(4)(aa)(ii)” ,

55.5.d.ii

for “12 month period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.5.e

in subsection (7)—

55.5.e.i

for “140 day period” substitute  “period specified in section 65(4)(aa)(ii)” ,

55.5.e.ii

for “12 month period”, in both places where it occurs, substitute  “period
specified in section 65(1)(b)” ,

55.5.f

for subsection (10) substitute—

55.5.f.10

In this section a reference to the period specified in section 65(1)(b) or
section 65(4)(aa)(ii) is to be construed as including that period as extended.

.

##### Criminal procedure time limits: transitional and saving provision

56

56.1

In relation to solemn proceedings in which the accused’s first appearance on
petition was before 1 October 2022—

56.1.a

sections 52T and 65 of the 1995 Act continue to apply in accordance with the
modifications made by paragraph 10(2) and (3) of schedule 4 of the 2020 Act
(despite that paragraph’s expiry),

56.1.b

the modifications made to the 1995 Act by the following provisions of this Act
do not apply—

56.1.b.i

section 55(3)(b),

56.1.b.ii

paragraph 20 of the schedule,

56.1.b.iii

paragraph 22(2) of the schedule.

56.2

In relation to summary proceedings in which the complaint is brought in court
before 1 October 2022—

56.2.a

section 147 of the 1995 Act continues to apply in accordance with the
modifications made by paragraph 10(5) of schedule 4 of the 2020 Act (despite
that paragraph’s expiry),

56.2.b

the modification made to section 147 of the 1995 Act by paragraph 22(3) of the
schedule of this Act does not apply.

56.3

In this section—

      “the 1995 Act” means the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,
“the 2020 Act” means the Coronavirus (Scotland) Act 2020.

##### Effect of early release from prison or young offenders institution by virtue of regulations

57

57.1

A person described in the first column of the table below who is released from
custody by virtue of regulations under  paragraph 25  of  the schedule , or
paragraph 19(1) of schedule 4 of the Coronavirus (Scotland) Act 2020, is
deemed to have been released by virtue of the provision of the 1993 Act
mentioned in the corresponding entry in the second column.

        Status of person immediately before release         Provision of the
1993 Act by virtue of which the person is deemed to have been released
A short-term prisoner         section 1(1)          A long-term prisoner
section 1(3)         A person serving a term of imprisonment or detention
imposed on a basis mentioned in section 5(1)(a) or (b) of the 1993 Act (fine
defaulters and persons in contempt of court) and who is, for any purpose, to
be treated as a short-term prisoner by virtue of that section         section
1(1), construed as required by section 5(2)         A person serving a term of
imprisonment or detention imposed on a basis mentioned in section 5(1)(a) or
(b) of the 1993 Act and who is, for any purpose, to be treated as a long-term
prisoner by virtue of that section         section 1(3), construed as required
by section 5(2)         A person detained—       a     under section 208 of
the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (detention of children convicted on
indictment), or         b     in pursuance of an order under section 7(3) of
the 1993 Act (children detained in solemn proceedings)            section 7(2)

57.2

In  this section —

57.2.a

“1993 Act” means the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993,

57.2.b

“short-term prisoner” and “long-term prisoner”—

57.2.b.i

have the meanings given in section 27(1) of the 1993 Act, and

57.2.b.ii

include a person treated, for any purpose, as a short-term prisoner or (as the
case may be) a long-term prisoner by virtue of section 6(1)(a) or 16(5)(a) of
the 1993 Act.

### Final provisions

#### Ancillary provision

58

58.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

58.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

58.2.a

modify any enactment (including this Act),

58.2.b

make different provision for different purposes.

58.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

58.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act,

58.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

59

59.1

The following provisions of this Act come into force on the days set out in
the table below, with the day specified in the first column for the provision
specified in the corresponding entry in the second column.

Day Provision Day after Royal Assent Sections 58, 59, and 60 1 September 2022
Sections 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 51 and 54 24
September 2022  Sections 4 and 26 1 October 2022 Sections 18, 19, 20, 21, 23,
24, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48,
49, 50, 52, 53, 55, 56 and 57, and the schedule 1 November 2022  Sections 22
and 42

59.2

In relation to section 25—

59.2.a

subsections (6) and (7) come into force—

59.2.a.i

on 1 September 2022 for the purposes of making regulations under sections 18
and 18B of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act
1965,

59.2.a.ii

on 24 September 2022 for all other purposes, and

59.2.b

the remaining subsections come into force on 24 September 2022.

59.3

In relation to section 27—

59.3.a

subsections (2), (4) and (6) come into force—

59.3.a.i

on 1 September 2022 for the purposes of making regulations under sections 23,
25 and 28ZA of the Registration of Births, Deaths and Marriages (Scotland) Act
1965,

59.3.a.ii

on 24 September 2022 for all other purposes, and

59.3.b

the remaining subsections come into force on 24 September 2022.

59.4

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

59.5

Regulations under  subsection (4)  may—

59.5.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

59.5.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

60

The short title of this Act is the Coronavirus (Recovery and Reform)
(Scotland) Act 2022.

Temporary justice measures

(introduced by   section 50 )

##### Courts and tribunals: conduct of business by electronic means etc.

###### Documents

####### Electronic signing

1

1.1

An electronic signature fulfils any requirement (however expressed and for
whatever purpose) for the signing, intialling or signetting of—

1.1.a

a document of a type mentioned in  paragraph 3 (1) , or

1.1.b

a deletion or correction to such a document.

1.2

In  this paragraph , “electronic signature” is to be construed in accordance
with section 7(2) of the Electronic Communications Act 2000, but includes a
version of an electronic signature which is reproduced on a paper document.

####### Sending electronically and to a solicitor

2

2.1

Any requirement (however expressed) that a document of a type mentioned in
paragraph 3 (1)  be given to a person may be fulfilled by—

2.1.a

transmitting it to the person electronically, or

2.1.b

transmitting it (electronically or otherwise) to a solicitor engaged to act on
the person’s behalf in relation to the proceedings in question.

2.2

For the purposes of  this paragraph —

2.2.a

electronic transmission of a document by one person (“the sender”) to another
person (“the recipient”) must be effected in a way that the recipient has
indicated to the sender that the recipient is willing to receive the document,

2.2.b

the recipient’s indication of willingness to receive a document in a
particular way may be—

2.2.b.i

specific to the document in question or generally applicable to documents of
that kind,

2.2.b.ii

expressed specifically to the sender or generally (for example on a website),

2.2.b.iii

inferred from the recipient having previously been willing to receive
documents from the sender in that way and not having indicated unwillingness
to do so again,

2.2.c

the sender’s uploading of a document to an electronic storage system from
which the recipient is able to download the document may constitute electronic
transmission of the document from the sender to the recipient.

2.3

In  this paragraph , references to giving a person a document include—

2.3.a

serving a document on a person,

2.3.b

sending a document to a person, and

2.3.c

lodging a document with, or otherwise apply to or petitioning, a court or
tribunal.

####### Documents to which 

3

3.1

The types of document referred to in paragraphs  1  and  2  are—

3.1.a

an order, warrant, sentence, citation, minute or any other document produced
by a court or tribunal,

3.1.b

an extract of any document referred to in  paragraph (a) ,

3.1.c

any document that an enactment requires be given to a person in connection
with, or in order to initiate, proceedings,

3.1.d

any document that an enactment requires to be signed, initialled or signetted
in order that it, or any other thing, may be used in proceedings for any
purpose including—

3.1.d.i

being used as evidence, or

3.1.d.ii

being treated as sufficient evidence of a matter.

3.2

But a type of document mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1)  is not to be regarded
as mentioned in that sub-paragraph for the purposes of  paragraph 1  or  2
(or both) if—

3.2.a

the Lord President of the Court of Session, or

3.2.b

the Lord Justice General,

directs that it is not.

3.3

A direction under  sub-paragraph (2)  may—

3.3.a

relate to some or all proceedings,

3.3.b

vary or revoke an earlier direction under that sub-paragraph.

####### Intimation etc. on Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service website

4

4.1

Any requirement (however expressed) that a document—

4.1.a

be put on the walls, doors or any other part of a court building (whether
internal or external), or

4.1.b

be made publicly available in any other way within a court building,

may be fulfilled instead by the document’s being made publicly available
through the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service website.

4.2

But  sub-paragraph (1)  does not apply to a document if it is of a type that—

4.2.a

the Lord President of the Court of Session, or

4.2.b

the Lord Justice General,

has directed that  sub-paragraph (1)  does not apply to.

4.3

Where a document is to be made publicly available through the Scottish Courts
and Tribunals Service website by virtue of  this paragraph , it is to so be
made available in accordance with—

4.3.a

any direction issued by—

4.3.a.i

the Lord President of the Court of Session, or

4.3.a.ii

the Lord Justice General, and

4.3.b

(subject to any necessary modifications) any enactment about—

4.3.b.i

how a step mentioned in  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of  sub-paragraph (1)  is to
be taken in relation to the document, or

4.3.b.ii

the length of time for which the document is to be made publicly available in
a way described by those paragraphs.

4.4

A direction under  sub-paragraph (3) (a)  may, in particular, provide that a
document is to be made available only in a redacted form.

4.5

If an enactment provides for an alternative to taking a step mentioned in
paragraph (a)  or  (b)  of  sub-paragraph (1)  as a means of achieving an
outcome (for example, advertising an application in a newspaper as a means of
intimating it), nothing in  this paragraph  precludes the taking of that
alternative step to achieve the outcome.

4.6

In  this paragraph , “the Scottish Courts and Tribunals Service website” means
the website maintained by, or on behalf of, the Service with the internet
domain name scotcourts.gov.uk.

####### Interpretation of Chapter

5

In  this Chapter —

5.a

references to a court or tribunal include an office holder of a court or
tribunal,

5.b

“document” includes a copy of a document.

###### Attending a court or tribunal

####### Suspension of requirement for physical attendance in non-criminal proceedings, criminal trials and certain processes

6

6.1

This paragraph applies—

6.1.a

in relation to proceedings that are not criminal proceedings, and

6.1.b

in the context of criminal proceedings, only in relation to—

6.1.b.i

a hearing in which a person is to give evidence,

6.1.b.ii

proceedings in which the only party is a public official as defined in
paragraph 9(3).

6.2

Any requirement (however expressed) that a person physically attend a court or
tribunal does not apply, unless the court or tribunal directs the person to
attend physically.

6.3

But  sub-paragraph (2)  does not apply in relation to a hearing in which a
person is to give evidence.

6.4

In the case of a hearing in relation to which sub-paragraph (2) does not
apply, the court may disapply any requirement (however expressed) that a
person physically attend the court by directing that the person need not do
so.

6.5

A court or tribunal may direct a person to physically attend under  sub-
paragraph (2)  only if it considers that allowing the person to attend by
electronic means would—

6.5.a

prejudice the fairness of the proceedings, or

6.5.b

otherwise be contrary to the interests of justice.

6.6

A court may disapply a requirement for a person’s physical attendance under
sub-paragraph (4)  only if it considers that allowing the person to attend by
electronic means in accordance with  paragraph 8  would not—

6.6.a

prejudice the fairness of the proceedings, or

6.6.b

otherwise be contrary to the interests of justice.

6.7

The power to issue a direction under both  sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (4)
includes the power to revoke an earlier direction under that sub-paragraph.

6.8

A court or tribunal may issue a direction under  sub-paragraph (2)  or  (4)
on the motion of a party or of its own accord.

6.9

In considering whether to issue a direction under  sub-paragraph (2)  or  (4)
, the court or tribunal must—

6.9.a

give all parties an opportunity to make representations (subject to sub-
paragraph (10)), and

6.9.b

have regard to any guidance issued by—

6.9.b.i

the Lord President of the Court of Session, or

6.9.b.ii

the Lord Justice General.

6.10

The first direction in relation to a hearing under sub-paragraph (2) or (4)
may be issued by the court or (as the case may be) tribunal of its own accord
without having given the parties an opportunity to make representations.

6.11

Where a direction under sub-paragraph (2) or (4) is issued in relation to a
hearing as described in sub-paragraph (10), the court or (as the case may be
tribunal) must—

6.11.a

take steps to ensure that the parties are aware of their right to make a
motion for the revocation of the direction, and

6.11.b

deal with any motion for the direction’s revocation,

before dealing with any other matter at the hearing, other than a decision to
adjourn or a matter that an enactment requires that the court deal with before
another hearing could practicably be arranged.

6.12

References in  this paragraph  to physically attending a court or tribunal are
to—

6.12.a

being in a particular place, or

6.12.b

being in the same place as another person,

for the purpose of any proceedings before a court or tribunal or an office
holder of a court or tribunal.

####### Suspension of requirement for physical attendance in criminal proceedings, excluding trials and certain processes

7

7.1

This paragraph—

7.1.a

applies only in relation to criminal proceedings, but

7.1.b

does not apply in relation to—

7.1.b.i

a hearing in which a person is to give evidence, or

7.1.b.ii

proceedings in which the only party is a public official as defined in
paragraph 9(3).

7.2

Any requirement (however expressed) that a person physically attend a court
does not apply if—

7.2.a

a determination made by the Lord Justice General states that it does not, and

7.2.b

the court has not directed the person to physically attend.

7.3

A determination under sub-paragraph (2)(a)—

7.3.a

may, in particular, disapply a requirement for physical attendance—

7.3.a.i

in relation to persons or hearings described in the determination,

7.3.a.ii

by enabling a court to disapply it in circumstances specified in the
determination,

7.3.b

may make different provision for different purposes and areas,

7.3.c

may vary or revoke an earlier determination made under the sub-paragraph,

7.3.d

must be made publicly available for so long as it has effect.

7.4

The Lord Justice General may make a determination under sub-paragraph (2)(a)
disapplying a requirement for physical attendance only if (taking into account
the discretion conferred by sub-paragraph (2)(b)), the Lord Justice General is
satisfied that it would not—

7.4.a

prejudice the fairness of proceedings, or

7.4.b

otherwise be contrary to the interests of justice.

7.5

A direction under sub-paragraph (2)(b)—

7.5.a

may be made by a court on the motion of a party or of its own accord,

7.5.b

may revoke an earlier direction made under the sub-paragraph.

7.6

Where, by reason of a determination under sub-paragraph (2)(a), a person is to
attend a court hearing by electronic means in accordance with paragraph 8, the
court must—

7.6.a

take steps to ensure that the parties are aware of their right to make a
motion for a direction under sub-paragraph (2)(b), and

7.6.b

deal with any motion for a direction under that sub-paragraph,

before dealing with any other matter at the hearing, other than a decision to
adjourn or a matter that an enactment requires that the court deal with before
another hearing could practicably be arranged.

7.7

References in this paragraph to physically attending a court are to be
construed in accordance with paragraph 6(12).

####### Attending by electronic means

8

8.1

A person excused from a requirement to physically attend a court or tribunal
by virtue of  paragraph 6 (2)  or  (4)  or 7(2)(a) must instead appear before
the court, tribunal or office holder (as the case may be) by electronic means
in accordance with a direction issued by the court or tribunal.

8.2

A person who fails to do so is to be regarded as having failed to comply with
the requirement to physically attend from which the person is excused.

8.3

The power under  sub-paragraph (1)  to issue a direction includes the power to
vary or revoke an earlier direction issued under that sub-paragraph.

8.4

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1) —

8.4.a

is to set out how the person is to appear by electronic means before the
court, tribunal or office holder, and

8.4.b

may include any other provision which the court or tribunal considers
appropriate.

8.5

A court or tribunal may issue a direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  on the
motion of a party or of its own accord.

8.6

Before issuing a direction under  sub-paragraph (1) , the court or tribunal
must—

8.6.a

give all parties an opportunity to make representations (subject to sub-
paragraph (7)), and

8.6.b

have regard to any guidance issued by—

8.6.b.i

the Lord President of the Court of Session, or

8.6.b.ii

the Lord Justice General.

8.7

The first direction in relation to a hearing under sub-paragraph (1) may be
issued by the court or (as the case may be) tribunal of its own accord without
having given the parties an opportunity to make representations.

8.8

Where a direction in relation to a hearing is issued as described in sub-
paragraph (7), the court or (as the case may be) tribunal must—

8.8.a

take steps to ensure that the parties are aware of their right to make a
motion for the variation or revocation of the direction, and

8.8.b

deal with any motion for the variation or revocation of the direction,

before taking a decision about any other matter at the hearing, other than a
decision to adjourn, a decision in respect of a motion for a direction under
paragraph 6 or 7 or a matter that an enactment requires that the court deal
with before another hearing could practicably be arranged.

8.9

A direction under  sub-paragraph (1)  setting out—

8.9.a

how a party to proceedings is to attend by electronic means a hearing in which
a person is to give evidence, must provide for the party to use means that
enable the party to both see and hear all of the other parties, the judge and
(where applicable) the jury and any witness who is giving evidence,

8.9.b

how a witness who is to give evidence at a hearing is to attend by electronic
means, must provide for the witness to use means that enable all of the
parties, the judge and (where applicable) the jury to both see and hear the
witness.

8.10

Nothing in  sub-paragraph (9)  is to be taken to mean that a person is to be
enabled to see or hear a witness in a way that measures taken in accordance
with an order of the court or tribunal would otherwise prevent.

####### General directions under 

9

9.1

A court or tribunal may—

9.1.a

issue a direction under  paragraph 8 (1)  that applies for the purpose of all
proceedings of a type specified in the direction, provided that the only party
to the proceedings is a public official,

9.1.b

issue a further direction under  paragraph 8 (1)  overriding, for the purpose
of specific proceedings, a general direction issued by virtue of  paragraph
(a) .

9.2

Paragraph 8 (6) (a)  does not apply in relation to a general direction issued
by virtue of  sub-paragraph (1) (a) .

9.3

In  this paragraph —

“ public official ” means— a person who is a public authority and is acting in
that capacity, or a person who is acting on behalf of a public authority, “
public authority ” is to be construed in accordance with section 6 of the
Human Rights Act 1998.

###### Further provision

####### Publication of directions and guidance

10

A person who issues any of the following must make it publicly available for
so long as it has effect—

10.a

a direction under  paragraph 3 (2) ,

10.b

a direction under  paragraph 4 (2)  or  (3) (a) ,

10.c

guidance under  paragraph 6 (9) (b) ,

10.d

guidance under  paragraph 8 (6) (b) .

####### Transitional provision for directions under earlier enactment

11

11.1

A direction under the provision of schedule 4 of the Coronavirus (Scotland)
Act 2020 mentioned in the first column of the table below is to be treated as
though it were a direction under the provision of  this Part  mentioned in the
corresponding entry in the second column.

Provision of schedule 4 of the Coronavirus (Scotland) Act 2020 under which the
direction was issued Provision of  this Part  under which the direction is to
be treated as having been issued  paragraph 1(5)  paragraph 3 (2)  paragraph
1A(2)  paragraph 4 (2)  paragraph 1A(3)(a)  paragraph 4 (3) (a)  paragraph
2(1)  paragraph 6 (2)  paragraph 2(3)  paragraph 6 (4)  paragraph 3(1)
paragraph 8 (1)

11.2

A general direction issued by virtue of paragraph 4(1)(a) of schedule 4 of the
Coronavirus (Scotland) Act 2020 is to be treated as though it were issued by
virtue of paragraph 9(1)(a).

####### Interpretation of Part

12

In  this Part —

“ court ” means any of the Scottish courts as defined in section 2(6) of the
Judiciary and Courts (Scotland) Act 2008, “ proceedings ” includes any process
before a court or tribunal, or any office holder of a court or tribunal (for
example, a process by which a warrant may be obtained for the purpose of
investigating a suspected offence), “ requirement ” means a requirement
arising from an enactment or rule of law, “ tribunal ” means— the First-tier
Tribunal for Scotland, the Upper Tribunal for Scotland.

##### Fiscal fines

###### Increase of maximum penalty

13

13.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 applies in accordance with the
modification in  sub-paragraph (2) .

13.2

Section 302(7A) (maximum fixed penalty that may be prescribed) has effect as
if for “£300” there were substituted  “£500” .

###### New scale

14

14.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 Fixed Penalty Order 2008 ( S.S.I.
2008/108 ) applies in accordance with the modification in  sub-paragraph (2) .

14.2

The schedule has effect as if for it there were substituted—

Article 2

THE SCALE OF FIXED PENALTIES Level on the scale Amount of fixed penalty 1 £50
2 £75 3 £100 4 £150 5 £200 6 £250 7 £300 8 £400 9 £500

.

##### Failure to appear before court following police liberation

###### Power for court to reschedule due to coronavirus

15

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### National jurisdiction for callings from custody etc.

###### Ability to take calling in any sheriff court and then maintain proceedings

16

16.1

A calling of criminal proceedings in the sheriff court to which  sub-paragraph
(2)  applies may be dealt with—

16.1.a

in any sheriff court in Scotland, and

16.1.b

by a sheriff of any sheriffdom.

16.2

This sub-paragraph  applies to a calling of criminal proceedings in which the
person who is the subject of the proceedings is appearing from custody—

16.2.a

having been arrested by a constable in connection with the matter to which the
proceedings relate, and

16.2.b

without having subsequently—

16.2.b.i

been released from custody, or

16.2.b.ii

had a court authorise the person’s continued remand in custody.

16.3

If more than one person is the subject of the proceedings, the reference in
sub-paragraph (2)  to the person who is the subject of the proceedings is to
be read as referring to any of them.

16.4

It is for the Lord Advocate or the procurator fiscal to determine in which
sheriff court a calling to which  sub-paragraph (2)  applies is to be taken.

16.5

Where proceedings have come before a sheriff court by virtue of  sub-paragraph
(1) , the proceedings may continue to be dealt with—

16.5.a

in the same sheriff court, and

16.5.b

by a sheriff of any sheriffdom.

16.6

Proceedings may continue to be dealt with by virtue of  sub-paragraph (5)
until their conclusion, except that—

16.6.a

in the case of summary proceedings, or proceedings on petition or indictment,
insofar as the proceedings relate to a charge in respect of which the accused
person has tendered a plea of not guilty which has not been accepted by the
prosecutor, they cannot continue to be dealt with by virtue of  sub-paragraph
(5)  after the end of the diet at which that plea was tendered,

16.6.b

in the case of proceedings on petition or indictment, they cannot continue to
be dealt with by virtue of  sub-paragraph (5)  after committal of the accused
person until liberation in due course of law.

16.7

For the purposes of  sub-paragraph (5) , proceedings on petition and any
subsequent proceedings on indictment are to be treated as the same
proceedings.

###### Ability of any sheriff court to deal with proceedings following failure to appear

17

17.1

This paragraph  applies where—

17.1.a

a calling of proceedings has come before a sheriff court by virtue of
paragraph 16 (1) , and

17.1.b

the proceedings are in respect of an accused person’s failure to attend a diet
in summary criminal proceedings or proceedings on indictment (“the principal
proceedings”).

17.2

If the principal proceedings are proceedings on indictment, the court may deal
with them until the end of the diet in which the calling mentioned in  sub-
paragraph (1) (a)  takes place.

17.3

If the principal proceedings are summary criminal proceedings, they may
continue to be dealt with—

17.3.a

in the same sheriff court, and

17.3.b

by a sheriff of any sheriffdom,

unless, and until the end of the diet at which, the accused person tenders a
plea of not guilty or confirms that the person is adhering to a previously
tendered plea of not guilty and (in either case) that plea is not accepted by
the prosecutor.

###### Further provision about extra-territorial jurisdiction

18

18.1

A sheriff court has jurisdiction for all cases which come before it by virtue
of  this Part .

18.2

A procurator fiscal for a sheriff court district has—

18.2.a

power to prosecute or, as the case may be, represent the interests of the
prosecutor in any case that comes before the sheriff court of that district by
virtue of  this Part ,

18.2.b

the like powers in relation to such cases as the prosecutor has for the
purposes of other cases that come before the sheriff when exercising criminal
jurisdiction.

18.3

For the purposes of  this Part , a sheriff may, without the need for further
commission, exercise the jurisdiction and powers that attach to the office of
sheriff in relation to criminal proceedings in every sheriffdom (and the same
applies accordingly to any other member of the judiciary, so far as that
member has the jurisdiction and powers that attach to the office of sheriff in
relation to criminal proceedings).

18.4

This Part  is without prejudice to sections 4 to 10, 34A and 137C of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995.

###### Interpretation of Part

19

19.1

In  this Part , “criminal proceedings” means any proceedings in which a court
is exercising criminal jurisdiction including in particular—

19.1.a

proceedings on indictment,

19.1.b

proceedings on petition,

19.1.c

summary proceedings,

19.1.d

ancillary proceedings, such as proceedings in respect of—

19.1.d.i

breach of bail,

19.1.d.ii

non-payment of a fine or other monetary penalty,

19.1.d.iii

breach of an order of a court, or

19.1.d.iv

failure of an accused person or a witness to attend a diet.

19.2

Any expression used in  this Part  which is also used in the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 has the same meaning as it does in that Act.

##### Criminal procedure time limits

###### Extension of periods

####### Solemn proceedings: periods within which procedural hearings and trial must commence

20

20.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 applies in accordance with the
modifications in  this paragraph .

20.2

Section 65(1) (solemn proceedings: prevention of delay in trials) has effect
as if—

20.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “11 months” there were substituted  “17 months” ,

20.2.b

in paragraph (aa), for “11 months” there were substituted  “17 months” ,

20.2.c

in paragraph (b), for “12 months” there were substituted  “18 months” .

####### Summary proceedings: period within which prosecution for statutory offence must commence

21

21.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 applies in accordance with the
modifications in  this paragraph .

21.2

Section 136(1) (summary proceedings: time limits) has effect as if for “six
months”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted  “12 months” .

####### Pre-trial and pre-sentence remand period

22

22.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 applies in accordance with the
modifications in  this paragraph .

22.2

Section 65(4) (solemn proceedings: prevention of delay in trials) has effect
as if—

22.2.a

in paragraph (a), for “80 days” there were substituted  “260 days” ,

22.2.b

in paragraph (aa)(i), for “110 days” there were substituted  “290 days” ,

22.2.c

in paragraph (aa)(ii), for “140 days” there were substituted  “320 days” ,

22.2.d

in paragraph (b)(i), for “110 days” there were substituted  “290 days” ,

22.2.e

in paragraph (b)(ii), for “140 days” there were substituted  “320 days” .

22.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

22.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

###### Adjournment periods

####### Power of court to adjourn cases

23

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Proceeds of crime

###### Making of confiscation order: postponement due to coronavirus

24

24.1

The Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 applies in accordance with the modifications in
this paragraph .

24.2

Section 99 (postponement) has effect as if—

24.2.a

after subsection (4) there were inserted—

24.2.a.4A

For the purpose of subsection (4), “exceptional circumstances”, in relation to
proceedings, includes the effect (whether direct or indirect) of coronavirus
on the proceedings.

,

24.2.b

after subsection (11) there were inserted—

24.2.b.12

In  subsection (4A) , “coronavirus” means severe acute respiratory syndrome
coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2).

.

##### Prisons and young offenders institutions

###### Power to release early

25

25.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that a person of a
description specified in the regulations is to be released from prison early
on a date that is—

25.1.a

either—

25.1.a.i

specified in the regulations, or

25.1.a.ii

determined in accordance with provision made in the regulations, and

25.1.b

not later than the regulations’ latest release date.

25.2

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations under  this paragraph  only if
they are satisfied that making the regulations is necessary and proportionate,
in response to the effects that coronavirus is having or is likely to have on
a prison or prisons generally, for the purpose of protecting—

25.2.a

the security and good order of any prison to which the regulations would
relate, or

25.2.b

the health, safety or welfare of prisoners, or those working, in any such
prison.

25.3

A person is not to be released from prison by virtue of regulations under this
paragraph more than 180 days earlier than the Scottish Ministers would
otherwise be required to release the person.

25.4

A person is not to be released from prison by virtue of regulations under
this paragraph  if—

25.4.a

the person falls within  sub-paragraph (5) , or

25.4.b

the governor of the prison within which the person is detained considers that
the person would, if released, pose an immediate risk of harm to an identified
person.

25.5

A person falls within  this sub-paragraph  if the person is—

25.5.a

a life prisoner,

25.5.b

an untried prisoner,

25.5.c

a terrorist prisoner within the meaning of section 1AB of the Prisoners and
Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993,

25.5.d

due to serve a terrorism sentence within the meaning of section 1B of that Act
but, by virtue of that section, is not yet serving it,

25.5.e

liable to removal from the United Kingdom for the purposes of section 9 of
that Act,

25.5.f

subject to a supervised release order under section 209 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995,

25.5.g

serving a sentence passed under section 210A of that Act (extended sentences
for sex, violent and terrorist offenders),

25.5.h

the subject of proceedings under the Extradition Act 2003,

25.5.i

subject to the notification requirements of Part 2 of the Sexual Offences Act
2003, or

25.5.j

serving a sentence of imprisonment or detention for—

25.5.j.i

an offence under section 1(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Scotland) Act 2018,

25.5.j.ii

an offence under section 7(1) or 17(1) of the Domestic Abuse (Protection)
(Scotland) Act 2021,

25.5.j.iii

an offence that is aggravated as described in section 1(1)(a) of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

25.6

Regulations under  this paragraph  may make different provision for different
purposes.

25.7

In  this paragraph —

“ coronavirus ” means severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-
CoV-2), “ governor ”, in relation to a prison, means— the governor appointed
for the prison under section 3(1A) of the Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989, or in
the case of a contracted out prison, the director appointed for the prison
under section 107(1)(a) of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, “
latest release date ” means a date specified in the regulations in question,
which must be a date within the period of 180 days beginning with the day that
the regulations are made, “ life prisoner ” means a person— who is serving a
sentence of imprisonment for life, who is detained without limit of time or
detained for life, who is subject to an order for lifelong restriction made
under section 210F of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, to whom
section 1A(2) of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993
applies, “ prison ” means— a prison within the meaning of section 43 of the
Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989, and a young offenders institution within the
meaning of section 19(1)(b) of that Act, “ untried prisoner ” means a person
who, whether or not in prison for any other reason, is in prison— having been
committed for examination or trial on a criminal charge, by virtue of remand
in custody under the Extradition Act 2003, by virtue of detention under
schedule 2 or 3 of the Immigration Act 1971, or following conviction and
awaiting sentence.

###### Parliamentary scrutiny of regulations under 

26

26.1

Regulations under  paragraph 25  are subject to the affirmative procedure,
unless  sub-paragraph (2)  applies to them.

26.2

This sub-paragraph  applies to regulations if the Scottish statutory
instrument containing the regulations includes a declaration that the Scottish
Ministers are of the opinion that, by reason of urgency, it is necessary to
make the regulations without their being subject to the affirmative procedure.

26.3

Where  sub-paragraph (2)  applies to regulations—

26.3.a

section 30 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act 2010
does not apply to the regulations,

26.3.b

the Scottish statutory instrument containing the regulations must be laid
before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable after they are made, and

26.3.c

the regulations cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which they are made unless, during that period, the
Scottish statutory instrument containing them is approved by resolution of the
Parliament.

26.4

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in  sub-paragraph (3) (c) , no
account is to be taken of any time during which the Scottish Parliament is—

26.4.a

in recess for more than 4 days, or

26.4.b

dissolved.

26.5

Regulations ceasing to have effect by virtue of  sub-paragraph (3) (c)
neither—

26.5.a

affects anything done under the regulations before they ceased to have effect,
nor

26.5.b

prevents new regulations being made under  paragraph 25 .

26.6

Where sub-paragraph (2) applies to regulations, the Scottish Ministers must
explain why they are of the opinion that, by reason of urgency, it is
necessary to make the regulations without their being subject to the
affirmative procedure.

