Title: Cost of Living (Tenant Protection) (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2024-06-10
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/10

## Cost of Living (Tenant Protection) (Scotland) Act 2022

### Residential tenancies: rent cap and evictions

#### Rent cap

##### Rent cap for residential tenancies

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Protection against eviction

##### Protection against eviction from residential properties

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Part 1: supporting provisions

#### Information and advice for tenants

3

The Scottish Ministers must take steps to ensure that tenants affected by the
provisions of Part 1 receive appropriate information, advice and support for
the period during which Part 1 remains in force.

#### Advancement of equality and non-discrimination

4

4.1

In exercising a function conferred by virtue of  Part 1  (including a function
of making subordinate legislation), the Scottish Ministers must have regard—

4.1.a

to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way,

4.1.b

to opportunities to advance equality and non-discrimination.

4.2

In  subsection (1) (a) , “ communicating in an inclusive way ” means
communicating in a way that ensures that individuals who have difficulty
communicating (in relation to speech, language or otherwise) can receive
information and express themselves in ways that best meet each individual’s
needs.

#### Subordinate legislation making powers

5

Any power to make subordinate legislation conferred by virtue of  Part 1
includes power to make—

5.a

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision,

5.b

different provision for different purposes or areas.

#### Power to suspend and revive Part 1

6

6.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

6.1.a

suspend the operation of any provision in  Part 1 ,

6.1.b

revive the operation of a provision so suspended.

6.2

Sections 15 to 17 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (effect of repeals) apply to the suspension of a provision by regulations
under  subsection (1) (a)  as if the provision had been repealed by an Act.

6.3

The powers in  subsection (1)  may be exercised more than once in relation to
the same provision.

6.4

Regulations under  this section  may make—

6.4.a

different provision for different purposes or areas,

6.4.b

consequential provision,

6.4.c

transitional, transitory or saving provision.

6.5

The power under  subsection (4) (b)  and  (c)  includes power to modify any
enactment (including this Act).

6.6

Regulations under  this section —

6.6.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

6.6.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Expiry of Part 1

7

7.1

Part 1  expires at the end of    31 March 2024 .

7.2

Subsection (1)  is subject to  section 8  (power to bring forward expiry).

7.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

7.3.a

amend  subsection (1)  so as to replace “31 March 2023” with  “30 September
2023” ,

7.3.b

further amend  subsection (1)  so as to replace “30 September 2023” with  “31
March 2024” .

7.4

The power conferred by  subsection (3) (b)  may be used only after 31 March
2023.

7.5

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

7.6

At the same time as laying a draft Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (3)  before the Scottish Parliament in
accordance with section 29(2) of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act 2010 (instruments subject to the affirmative procedure), the
Scottish Ministers must lay before the Parliament a statement of their reasons
why the regulations should be made.

7.7

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make—

7.7.a

consequential provision,

7.7.b

transitional, transitory or saving provision,

in connection with the expiry under  subsection (1)  of any provision of this
Act.

7.8

Regulations under  subsection (7)  may—

7.8.a

make different provision for different purposes or areas,

7.8.b

modify any enactment (including this Act).

7.9

Regulations under  subsection (7) —

7.9.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

7.9.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Power to bring forward expiry of Part 1

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that any provision of  Part
1 —

8.1.a

does not expire at the time when it would otherwise expire (whether by virtue
of  section 7  or previous regulations under  this section ), and

8.1.b

expires instead at such earlier time as is specified in the regulations.

8.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider that any provision of Part 1 is no
longer necessary or proportionate in connection with the cost of living, they
must, as soon as is reasonably practicable—

8.2.a

in a case where they consider that the provision may need to be revived, bring
forward regulations under  section 6 (1)  to suspend the provision,

8.2.b

in any other case, bring forward regulations under  subsection (1)  to expire
the provision.

8.3

Regulations under  this section  may make—

8.3.a

different provision for different purposes or areas,

8.3.b

consequential provision,

8.3.c

transitional, transitory or saving provision.

8.4

The power under  subsection (3) (b)  and  (c)  includes power to modify any
enactment (including this Act).

8.5

Regulations under  this section —

8.5.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

8.5.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Reports by the Scottish Ministers on status of Part 1 provisions

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers must, in respect of each reporting period—

9.1.a

undertake a review of the operation of the provisions of  Part 1  with a view
to considering whether those provisions remain necessary and proportionate in
connection with the cost of living, and

9.1.b

prepare a report on that review.

9.2

A report prepared under  subsection (1)  must—

9.2.a

set out how any powers conferred by the provisions of  Part 1  have been
exercised,

9.2.b

set out the steps the Scottish Ministers have taken to meet the requirements
in section 3, and

9.2.c

include—

9.2.c.i

the status of the provisions of  Part 1  (whether or not any power under a
provision has been exercised), and

9.2.c.ii

a statement that the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that the status of those
provisions is appropriate.

9.3

Before Scottish Ministers prepare a report of a review under subsection (1),
the Scottish Ministers—

9.3.a

must consult—

9.3.a.i

such persons as appear to them to represent the interests of tenants and
landlords that may be affected by the provisions of Part 1,

9.3.a.ii

local authorities,

9.3.b

may consult any other person they consider appropriate.

9.4

A review under this section must include a summary of how the views of those
consulted under subsection (3) were taken into account by the Scottish
Ministers in finalising their report.

9.5

The references in  subsection (2)  to the “status” of a provision are to—

9.5.a

whether the provision is in force at the end of the reporting period, and

9.5.b

whether any power under the following provisions has been exercised by the
Scottish Ministers in relation to it during that period (and, if so, how)—

9.5.b.i

section 6  (power to suspend or revive provisions),

9.5.b.ii

section 8  (power to bring forward expiry).

9.6

Each of the following is a “reporting period”—

9.6.a

the period beginning with the day after Royal Assent and ending on 31 December
2022,

9.6.b

each successive period of 3 months that ends during the period before  Part 1
of this Act expires by virtue of  section 7 (1)  or  8 (1)  up to and
including 31 December 2023.

9.7

In the report in respect of the period ending 31 December 2022, the Scottish
Ministers must, in considering the application of the permitted rate (within
the meaning of section 24A(1) of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2001) of 0%,
explain whether they propose to—

9.7.a

retain the permitted rate at 0%,

9.7.b

increase the permitted rate,

9.7.c

make regulations under section 8(1) to provide for the expiry of paragraph 3
of schedule 1, or

9.7.d

make regulations under section 6(1) to suspend the operation of that
paragraph.

9.8

Subsection (1)  does not apply in respect of a reporting period if, during the
reporting period, the Scottish Ministers are required under  section 7 (6)  to
lay before the Scottish Parliament a statement of their reasons why
regulations should be made under that section.

9.9

Where the Scottish Ministers are required to prepare a report under
subsection (1)  in respect of a reporting period, they must lay the report
before the Scottish Parliament no later than 14 days after the end of the
reporting period.

### Residential tenancies: rent adjudication

#### Rent adjudication: power to modify

10

Schedule 3  contains modifications to the law in relation to rent
adjudication.

#### Expiry of section 10

11

11.1

Section 10  expires at the end of   31 March 2025 .

11.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that, instead of expiring at
the time it would otherwise expire,  section 10  will expire at the end of a
period of not more than one year from that time.

11.3

For the avoidance of doubt, the power under  subsection (2)  may be exercised
more than once.

11.4

Regulations under  subsection (2) —

11.4.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure, and

11.4.b

must be made before  section 10  expires.

11.5

At the same time as laying a draft Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under  subsection (2)  before the Scottish Parliament in
accordance with section 29(2) of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act 2010 (instruments subject to the affirmative procedure), the
Scottish Ministers must lay before the Parliament a statement of their reasons
why the regulations should be made.

### General

#### Ancillary provision

12

12.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

12.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

12.3

Without prejudice to section 6 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act 2010, the Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify any
regulations made under  subsection (1)  in consequence of—

12.3.a

the exercise of a power under  section 6  (power to suspend and revive
provisions),

12.3.b

the expiry of a provision of this Act under  section 7  (expiry),

12.3.c

the exercise of a power under  section 8  (power to bring forward expiry).

12.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  may make transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

12.5

Regulations under  this section —

12.5.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

12.5.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Commencement

13

13.1

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

13.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of
this Act.

#### Short title

14

The short title of this Act is the Cost of Living (Tenant Protection)
(Scotland) Act 2022.

Rent cap

(introduced by  section 1 )

##### Rent cap for private residential tenancies

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Rent cap for assured tenancies and short assured tenancies

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Rent cap for Scottish secure tenancies and short Scottish secure tenancies

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Rent cap for student residential tenancies

4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Protection against eviction

(introduced by  section 2 )

##### Eviction from residential properties: restrictions on enforcement

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Student residential tenancies: criminal behaviour

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Student residential tenancies: anti-social behaviour

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Safeguards for landlords: substantial rent arrears and financial hardship

4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Unlawful eviction: notification and determination of damages, etc.

7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Rent adjudication: power to modify

(introduced by  section 10 )

##### Private residential tenancies

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Assured tenancies and short assured tenancies

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

