Title: Domestic Abuse (Safe Leave) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-05-17
Description: Make provision for an entitlement to paid safe leave for victims of domestic abuse; and for connected purposes.
Publisher: Government Printer for Northern Ireland
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/27/enacted

## Domestic Abuse (Safe Leave) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by Her Majesty as follows:

### Safe leave for victims of domestic abuse

1

1.1

After Article 112EF of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996
insert—

######### DOMESTIC ABUSE SAFE LEAVE

########## Domestic abuse safe leave

1.1.112EG

1.1.112EG.1

The Department must make regulations entitling an employee who is a victim of
domestic abuse to be absent from work on leave under this Article for the
purpose of dealing with issues related to the domestic abuse (referred to in
this Chapter as “ safe leave ”).

1.1.112EG.2

For the purposes of this Chapter, an employee is a victim of domestic abuse
if—

1.1.112EG.2.a

the employee is being, or has been, subjected to abusive behaviour by a person
to whom the employee is connected, and

1.1.112EG.2.b

such other conditions as may be specified are satisfied.

1.1.112EG.3

The regulations must include provision as to the meaning of being subjected to
abusive behaviour, and as to the criteria for being connected to another
person, for the purposes of paragraph (2); and the regulations may do so by
reference to provisions of the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021 or by applying other statutory provisions (with or
without modifications).

1.1.112EG.4

Issues related to domestic abuse for the purposes of paragraph (1) include,
but are not limited to—

1.1.112EG.4.a

obtaining legal advice and pursuing legal proceedings and remedies;

1.1.112EG.4.b

finding alternative accommodation;

1.1.112EG.4.c

taking advantage of healthcare (including mental health care);

1.1.112EG.4.d

obtaining welfare support;

1.1.112EG.4.e

protecting family members; and

1.1.112EG.4.f

such other matters as may be specified in the regulations.

1.1.112EG.5

The regulations must, in particular, include provision ensuring that the
period of safe leave to which an employee who is a victim of domestic abuse is
entitled is at least 10 days in each leave year (whether or not taken as a
single continuous period), with “leave year” having the meaning given in, and
being calculated in accordance with, the regulations.

1.1.112EG.6

The regulations may make provision about how safe leave is to be taken; and,
in particular, the regulations may—

1.1.112EG.6.a

attach conditions, or enable an employer to attach reasonable conditions, in
respect of entitlement to safe leave (including as to when it may be taken);

1.1.112EG.6.b

require an employee to give such notice (if any) as is reasonably practicable
before taking safe leave.

1.1.112EG.7

The regulations may not impose conditions, or enable an employer to impose
conditions, about length of service for eligibility for safe leave.

########## Rights during and after safe leave

1.1.112EH

1.1.112EH.1

Regulations under Article 112EG must provide—

1.1.112EH.1.a

that an employee who is absent on safe leave is entitled, for such purposes
and to such extent as may be specified, to the benefit of the terms and
conditions of employment which would have applied but for the absence;

1.1.112EH.1.b

that an employee who is absent on safe leave is bound, for such purposes and
to such extent as may be specified, by obligations arising under those terms
and conditions (except in so far as they are inconsistent with paragraph (1)
of that Article); and

1.1.112EH.1.c

that an employee who is absent on safe leave is entitled to return from leave
to a job of a specified kind (but this is subject to Article 112EI(1)).

1.1.112EH.2

In paragraph (1)(a), “ terms and conditions of employment ” includes—

1.1.112EH.2.a

terms and conditions about remuneration, and

1.1.112EH.2.b

any other matters connected with an employee’s employment whether or not they
arise under the contract of employment.

1.1.112EH.3

Provision under paragraph (1)(a) must, in particular, provide that it is for
the employer of an employee who is absent on safe leave to pay the employee
remuneration in respect of the period of safe leave.

1.1.112EH.4

The reference in paragraph (1)(c) to absence on safe leave  includes, where
appropriate, a reference to a continuous period of absence attributable partly
to safe leave and partly to any one or more of the following—

1.1.112EH.4.a

maternity leave;

1.1.112EH.4.b

paternity leave;

1.1.112EH.4.c

adoption leave;

1.1.112EH.4.d

shared parental leave; and

1.1.112EH.4.e

parental leave.

1.1.112EH.5

Regulations under Article 112EG may make provision, in relation to the right
to return mentioned in paragraph (1)(c), about—

1.1.112EH.5.a

seniority, pension rights and similar rights; and

1.1.112EH.5.b

terms and conditions of employment on return.

########## Special cases

1.1.112EI

1.1.112EI.1

Regulations under Article 112EG may make provision about—

1.1.112EI.1.a

redundancy, or

1.1.112EI.1.b

dismissal (other than by reason of redundancy),

during a period of safe leave.

1.1.112EI.2

Provision by virtue of paragraph (1) may include provision requiring an
employer to offer alternative employment.

########## Enforcement

1.1.112EJ

1.1.112EJ.1

Regulations under Article 112EG may make provision for the consequences of—

1.1.112EJ.1.a

the prevention or attempted prevention by an employer of the exercise by an
employee of the entitlement to be absent from work on safe leave;

1.1.112EJ.1.b

a failure by the employer to comply with the requirement to pay remuneration
by virtue of Article 112EH(3);

1.1.112EJ.1.c

a failure to comply with any other provision of the regulations.

1.1.112EJ.2

Provision under paragraph (1) may, in particular—

1.1.112EJ.2.a

enable an employee to present a complaint to an industrial tribunal, and

1.1.112EJ.2.b

include provision as to the remedies available to an industrial tribunal where
it finds a complaint presented by virtue of this Article to be well-founded.

1.1.112EJ.3

Provision under paragraph (1) made in connection with provision under Article
112EI(1) may include provision for a dismissal to be treated as unfair for the
purposes of Part 11.

########## Workers

1.1.112EK

Regulations under Article 112EG must extend the right to safe leave to workers
who are not employees; and for that purpose the regulations—who are not
employees; and for that purpose the regulations—

1.1.112EK.a

may make provision applying, modifying or excluding a provision of the
regulations, in such circumstances as may be specified and subject to any
conditions specified, in relation to a worker;

1.1.112EK.b

may, so far as is necessary for the purpose of making provision by virtue of
sub-paragraph (a), make provision applying, modifying or excluding a provision
of this Order; and

1.1.112EK.c

may make provision similar to a provision of or under Article 67K.

########## Chapter 5: supplemental

1.1.112EL

Regulations under Article 112EG may—

1.1.112EL.a

make provision about notices to be given and other procedures to be followed
by employees and employers;

1.1.112EL.b

make provision requiring employers or employees to keep records;

1.1.112EL.c

make special provision for cases where an employee has a right that
corresponds to a right under Article 112EG and that arises under the person’s
contract of employment or otherwise;

1.1.112EL.d

make provision modifying the effect of Chapter 4 of Part 1 (calculation of a
week’s pay) in relation to an employee who is or has been absent from work on
safe leave;

1.1.112EL.e

make provision applying, modifying or excluding a statutory provision, in such
circumstances as may be specified and subject to any conditions which may be
specified, in relation to a person entitled to take safe leave;

1.1.112EL.f

make consequential provision.

.

1.2

In Article 251(1A) of that Order (regulations that are subject to approval by
the Assembly), after “112BAA,” insert  “112EG,” .

### Reports

2

2.1

The Department for the Economy must, in so far as it is practicable for the
Department to do so, make a report on the operation of regulations under
Article 112EG of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996—

2.1.a

as soon as practicable after the first anniversary of the commencement of the
first regulations under that Article, and

2.1.b

at least once in every three years after the making of the previous report on
the operation of the regulations.

2.2

The Department must publish each report made under this section and lay a copy
of it before the Assembly.

2.3

In making a report under this section, the Department must consult such
persons or organisations as it considers appropriate.

### Guidance

3

3.1

The Department for the Economy must issue guidance about the implementation or
application of a provision of regulations under Article 112EG of the
Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

3.2

The Department must review the guidance from time to time and issue revised
guidance where the Department thinks it appropriate.

### Power to make consequential etc. provision

4

4.1

The Department for the Economy may by regulations make provision in
consequence of, or for giving full effect to, this Act.

4.2

Regulations under this section may—

4.2.a

amend, repeal, revoke or otherwise modify a provision of the Employment Rights
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (including a provision inserted by this Act) or
any other statutory provision (within the meaning of section 1(f) of the
Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954));

4.2.b

include transitional, transitory or saving provision in connection with the
coming into operation of provision made by the regulations.

4.3

Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution, except as
mentioned in subsection (4).

4.4

Regulations under this section which contain (whether alone or with other
provision) provision that amends the text of Northern Ireland legislation or
an Act of Parliament are not to be made unless a draft of the regulations has
been laid before, and approved by resolution of, the Assembly.

4.5

The power conferred by this section is not restricted by any other provision
of this Act.

### Commencement

5

5.1

Sections 1 to 3 come into operation on such day or days as the Department for
the Economy may by order appoint.

5.2

The other provisions of this Act come into operation on the day after Royal
Assent.

5.3

An order under this section may make such transitory or transitional
provision, or savings, as the Department considers necessary or expedient.

### Short title

6

This Act may be cited as the Domestic Abuse (Safe Leave) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022.

