Title: Energy Prices Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/44

## Energy Prices Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Reduction of domestic energy bills in England, Wales and Scotland

#### Domestic energy price reduction schemes for Great Britain

1

1.1

The Secretary of State may establish a domestic electricity price reduction
scheme for Great Britain.

1.2

A “domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Great Britain” is a scheme
(including any other related arrangements) that makes provision for and in
connection with—

1.2.a

reducing the amount that would otherwise be charged for GB domestic
electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers who are parties to the
scheme, and

1.2.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions in charges.

1.3

The Secretary of State may establish a domestic gas price reduction scheme for
Great Britain.

1.4

A “domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain” is a scheme
(including any other related arrangements) that makes provision for and in
connection with—

1.4.a

reducing the amount that would otherwise be charged for GB domestic gas supply
by licensed gas suppliers who are parties to the scheme, and

1.4.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions in charges.

1.5

A domestic electricity or gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain may, in
particular, provide for the amount charged to be reduced by an amount
calculated by reference to the difference between—

1.5.a

charges that would be made if the scheme were not applicable, and

1.5.b

an amount specified in, or in accordance with, the scheme.

1.6

The Secretary of State may modify or revoke a domestic electricity or gas
price reduction scheme for Great Britain.

1.7

But if the scheme includes provision about modification or revocation of the
scheme, the Secretary of State’s power to modify or revoke it is subject to
that provision.

1.8

Any such provision of the scheme does not prevent the Secretary of State from
modifying the scheme if—

1.8.a

the Secretary of State considers that a licensed electricity supplier or
licensed gas supplier may make, or has made, arrangements whose primary
purpose is to increase payments to the supplier under the scheme, and

1.8.b

the purpose of the modification of the scheme is to prevent the increased
payments or require repayment of increased payments.

1.9

For provision about time limits on the exercise of the powers conferred by
this section, see Schedule 6.

#### GB electricity scheme: supplementary provision

2

2.1

This section—

2.1.a

applies in relation to a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Great
Britain that is designated for the purposes of this section in regulations
made by the Secretary of State (the “designated scheme”); and

2.1.b

applies in relation to the designated scheme as it has effect from time to
time.

2.2

A licensed electricity supplier who provides GB domestic electricity supply—

2.2.a

must take all reasonable steps to become a party to the designated scheme as
soon as is reasonably practicable;

2.2.b

must, after becoming a party to the designated scheme, remain a party unless
and until it ceases to be a party in accordance with the terms of the
designated scheme;

2.2.c

must, while a party to the designated scheme, comply with the terms of the
designated scheme that are applicable to it.

2.3

The Secretary of State must publish the designated scheme (as it has effect
from time to time), so far as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
to do so.

2.4

The provision made by paragraph 6(g) of Schedule 6A to the Electricity Act
1989 (enforcement by GEMA) does not prevent any other remedy from being
pursued or obtained in respect of non-compliance with the terms of the
designated scheme (including any remedy in the law of contract).

2.5

The Secretary of State is not liable in the law of contract for things done or
omitted in the performance or purported performance of the terms of the
designated scheme, unless the liability relates to payment of an amount under
the scheme.

2.6

A domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Great Britain that was
established before section 1 (1)  came into force otherwise than in accordance
with that section (a “pre-commencement scheme”) may be designated for the
purposes of this section.

2.7

But no action may be taken in reliance on paragraph 6(g) of Schedule 6A to the
Electricity Act 1989 in relation to non-compliance with a pre-commencement
scheme that is designated if or to the extent that the non-compliance occurred
before the scheme is designated.

2.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### GB gas scheme: supplementary provision

3

3.1

This section—

3.1.a

applies in relation to a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain
that is designated for the purposes of this section in regulations made by the
Secretary of State (the “designated scheme”); and

3.1.b

applies in relation to the designated scheme as it has effect from time to
time.

3.2

A licensed gas supplier who provides GB domestic gas supply—

3.2.a

must take all reasonable steps to become a party to the designated scheme as
soon as is reasonably practicable;

3.2.b

must, after becoming a party to the designated scheme, remain a party unless
and until it ceases to be a party in accordance with the terms of the
designated scheme;

3.2.c

must, while a party to the designated scheme, comply with the terms of the
designated scheme that are applicable to it.

3.3

A gas shipper must apply to become a party to the designated scheme if—

3.3.a

that gas shipper receives from another party to the designated scheme a
written request to become a party, and

3.3.b

the designated scheme would not operate effectively if that gas shipper was
not a party;

and the gas shipper must make that application as soon as reasonably
practicable after receiving the request.

3.4

A gas shipper—

3.4.a

must, after becoming a party to the designated scheme, remain a party unless
and until it ceases to be a party in accordance with the terms of the
designated scheme;

3.4.b

must, while a party to the designated scheme, comply with the terms of the
designated scheme that are applicable to it.

3.5

The Secretary of State must publish the designated scheme (as it has effect
from time to time), so far as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
to do so.

3.6

The provision made by paragraph 4(f) of Schedule 4B to the Gas Act 1986
(enforcement by GEMA) does not prevent any other remedy from being pursued or
obtained in respect of non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme
(including any remedy in the law of contract).

3.7

The Secretary of State is not liable in the law of contract for things done or
omitted in the performance or purported performance of the terms of the
designated scheme, unless the liability relates to payment of an amount under
the scheme.

3.8

A domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain that was established
before section 1 (3)  came into force otherwise than in accordance with that
section (a “pre-commencement scheme”) may be designated for the purposes of
this section.

3.9

But no action may be taken in reliance on paragraph 4(f) of Schedule 4B to the
Gas Act 1986 in relation to non-compliance with a pre-commencement scheme that
is designated if or to the extent that the non-compliance occurred before the
scheme is designated.

3.10

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation of sections 1 to 3

4

4.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 1 to 3 and this section.

####### Expressions relating to electricity

4.2

A “licensed electricity supplier” is a person who holds an electricity supply
licence.

4.3

An “electricity supply licence” is a licence granted under section 6(1)(d) of
the Electricity Act 1989.

4.4

“GB domestic electricity supply” is the supply of electricity to premises that
are domestic premises for the purposes of the relevant standard conditions (as
they have effect from time to time).

4.5

In subsection  (4)  “relevant standard conditions” are the conditions which
are, by virtue of section 33(1) of the Utilities Act 2000, the standard
conditions for the purposes of electricity supply licences.

####### Expressions relating to gas

4.6

A “licensed gas supplier” is a person who holds a gas supply licence.

4.7

A “gas supply licence” is a licence granted under section 7A(1) of the Gas Act
1986.

4.8

“ Gas shipper ” has the same meaning as in Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 (see
section 7A(11) of that Act).

4.9

“GB domestic gas supply” is the supply of gas to premises that are domestic
premises for the purposes of the relevant standard conditions (as they have
effect from time to time).

4.10

In subsection  (9)  “relevant standard conditions” are the conditions which
are, by virtue of section 81(2) of the Utilities Act 2000, the standard
conditions for the purposes of gas supply licences.

####### Other expressions

4.11

A reference to a charge for GB domestic electricity supply or GB domestic gas
supply includes a reference to a charge that does not relate to electricity or
gas supplied (such as a standing charge).

### Reduction of domestic energy bills in Northern Ireland

#### Domestic energy price reduction schemes for Northern Ireland

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may establish a domestic electricity price reduction
scheme for Northern Ireland.

5.2

A “domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland” is a
scheme (including any other related arrangements) that makes provision for and
in connection with—

5.2.a

reducing the amount that would otherwise be charged for NI domestic
electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers who are parties to the
scheme, and

5.2.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions in charges.

5.3

The Secretary of State may establish a domestic gas price reduction scheme for
Northern Ireland.

5.4

A “domestic gas price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland” is a scheme
(including any other related arrangements) that makes provision for and in
connection with—

5.4.a

reducing the amount that would otherwise be charged for NI domestic gas supply
by licensed gas suppliers who are parties to the scheme, and

5.4.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions in charges.

5.5

The Secretary of State may modify or revoke a domestic electricity or gas
price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland.

5.6

But if the scheme includes provision about modification or revocation of the
scheme, the Secretary of State’s power to modify or revoke it is subject to
that provision.

5.7

Any such provision of the scheme does not prevent the Secretary of State from
modifying the scheme if—

5.7.a

the Secretary of State considers that a licensed electricity supplier or
licensed gas supplier may make, or has made, arrangements whose primary
purpose is to increase payments to the supplier under the scheme, and

5.7.b

the purpose of the modification of the scheme is to prevent the increased
payments or require repayment of increased payments.

5.8

For provision about time limits on the exercise of the powers conferred by
this section, see Schedule 6.

#### NI electricity scheme: supplementary provision

6

6.1

This section—

6.1.a

applies in relation to a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for
Northern Ireland that is designated for the purposes of this section in
regulations made by the Secretary of State (the “designated scheme”); and

6.1.b

applies in relation to the designated scheme as it has effect from time to
time.

6.2

A licensed electricity supplier who provides NI domestic electricity supply—

6.2.a

must take all reasonable steps to become a party to the designated scheme as
soon as is reasonably practicable;

6.2.b

must, after becoming a party to the designated scheme, remain a party unless
and until it ceases to be a party in accordance with the terms of the
designated scheme;

6.2.c

must, while a party to the designated scheme, comply with the terms of the
designated scheme that are applicable to it.

6.3

The Northern Ireland Regulator may give an NI domestic electricity supplier
directions in relation to the supplier’s performance of the terms of the
designated scheme.

6.4

An NI domestic electricity supplier must comply with any direction given to it
under subsection  (3) .

6.5

The Secretary of State must publish the designated scheme (as it has effect
from time to time), so far as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
to do so.

6.6

The provision made by Article 41A(4)(l) of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order
2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ) (enforcement by the Northern Ireland
Regulator) does not prevent any other remedy from being pursued or obtained in
respect of non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme (including
any remedy in the law of contract).

6.7

The Secretary of State is not liable in the law of contract for things done or
omitted in the performance or purported performance of the terms of the
designated scheme, unless the liability relates to payment of an amount under
the scheme.

6.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### NI gas scheme: supplementary provision

7

7.1

This section—

7.1.a

applies in relation to a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Northern
Ireland that is designated for the purposes of this section in regulations
made by the Secretary of State (the “designated scheme”); and

7.1.b

applies in relation to the designated scheme as it has effect from time to
time.

7.2

A licensed gas supplier who provides NI domestic gas supply—

7.2.a

must take all reasonable steps to become a party to the designated scheme as
soon as is reasonably practicable;

7.2.b

must, after becoming a party to the designated scheme, remain a party unless
and until it ceases to be a party in accordance with the terms of the
designated scheme;

7.2.c

must, while a party to the designated scheme, comply with the terms of the
designated scheme that are applicable to it.

7.3

The Northern Ireland Regulator may give an NI domestic gas supplier directions
in relation to the supplier’s performance of the terms of the designated
scheme.

7.4

An NI domestic gas supplier must comply with any direction given to it under
subsection  (3) .

7.5

The Secretary of State must publish the designated scheme (as it has effect
from time to time), so far as the Secretary of State considers it appropriate
to do so.

7.6

The provision made by Article 41B(3)(k) of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order
2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ) (enforcement by the Northern Ireland
Regulator) does not prevent any other remedy from being pursued or obtained in
respect of non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme (including
any remedy in the law of contract).

7.7

The Secretary of State is not liable in the law of contract for things done or
omitted in the performance or purported performance of the terms of the
designated scheme, unless the liability relates to payment of an amount under
the scheme.

7.8

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Interpretation of sections 5 to 7

8

8.1

This section applies for the purposes of sections 5 to 7 and this section.

####### Expressions relating to electricity

8.2

A “licensed electricity supplier” is a person who holds an electricity supply
licence.

8.3

An “electricity supply licence” is a licence granted under Article 10(1)(c) of
the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) ).

8.4

“ NI domestic electricity supply ” has the meaning specified in, or determined
in accordance with, regulations made by the Secretary of State; and
regulations under this subsection are subject to the affirmative procedure.

####### Expressions relating to gas

8.5

A “licensed gas supplier” is a person who holds a gas supply licence.

8.6

A “gas supply licence” is a licence granted under Article 8(1)(c) of the Gas
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

8.7

“ NI domestic gas supply ” has the meaning specified in, or determined in
accordance with, regulations made by the Secretary of State; and regulations
under this subsection are subject to the affirmative procedure.

####### Other expressions

8.8

A reference to a charge for NI domestic electricity supply or NI domestic gas
supply includes a reference to a charge that does not relate to electricity or
gas supplied (such as a standing charge).

### Reduction of non-domestic energy bills in England, Wales and Scotland

#### Reduced energy charges for non-domestic customers in Great Britain

9

9.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision for and in
connection with—

9.1.a

reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for GB non-domestic
electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers, and

9.1.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

9.2

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision for and in
connection with—

9.2.a

reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for GB non- domestic gas
supply by licensed gas suppliers, and

9.2.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

9.3

Regulations under this section may, in particular, provide for reductions in
amounts charged to be calculated by reference to the difference between—

9.3.a

the wholesale price paid for electricity or gas, as a component of the amounts
that would otherwise be charged for the supply of electricity or gas, and

9.3.b

a notional wholesale price, if it is lower than the wholesale price paid.

9.4

If the regulations make such provision, they may in particular—

9.4.a

provide for—

9.4.a.i

the wholesale price paid to be the actual wholesale price paid or a wholesale
price treated as paid, and

9.4.a.ii

that wholesale price to be specified in or under the regulations, or
determined in accordance with the regulations;

9.4.b

provide for the notional wholesale price to be specified in or under the
regulations, or determined in accordance with the regulations.

9.5

The Secretary of State may review the operation of regulations under this
section.

9.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

9.7

Schedule 1 describes particular kinds of provision that may be made by
regulations under this section.

9.8

For provision about time limits on the exercise of the powers conferred by
this section, see Schedule 6.

#### Interpretation of section 9 and Schedule 1

10

10.1

This section applies for the purposes of section 9, this section and Schedule
1.

####### Expressions relating to electricity

10.2

A “licensed electricity supplier” is a person who holds an electricity supply
licence.

10.3

An “electricity supply licence” is a licence granted under section 6(1)(d) of
the Electricity Act 1989.

10.4

“GB non-domestic electricity supply” is the supply of electricity to premises
that are non-domestic premises for the purposes of the relevant standard
conditions (as they have effect from time to time).

10.5

In subsection  (4)  “relevant standard conditions” are the conditions which
are, by virtue of section 33(1) of the Utilities Act 2000, the standard
conditions for the purposes of electricity supply licences.

####### Expressions relating to gas

10.6

A “licensed gas supplier” is a person who holds a gas supply licence.

10.7

A “gas supply licence” is a licence granted under section 7A(1) of the Gas Act
1986.

10.8

“GB non-domestic gas supply” is the supply of gas to premises that are non-
domestic premises for the purposes of the relevant standard conditions (as
they have effect from time to time).

10.9

In subsection  (8)  “relevant standard conditions” are the conditions which
are, by virtue of section 81(2) of the Utilities Act 2000, the standard
conditions for the purposes of gas supply licences.

### Reduction of non-domestic energy bills in Northern Ireland

#### Reduced energy charges for non-domestic customers in Northern Ireland

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision for and in
connection with—

11.1.a

reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for NI non-domestic
electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers, and

11.1.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

11.2

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision for and in
connection with—

11.2.a

reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for NI non-domestic gas
supply by licensed gas suppliers, and

11.2.b

making payments to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

11.3

Regulations under this section may, in particular, provide for reductions in
amounts charged to be calculated by reference to the difference between—

11.3.a

the wholesale price paid for electricity or gas, as a component of the amounts
that would otherwise be charged for the supply of electricity or gas, and

11.3.b

a notional wholesale price, if it is lower than the wholesale price paid.

11.4

If the regulations make such provision, they may in particular—

11.4.a

provide—

11.4.a.i

for the wholesale price paid to be the actual wholesale price paid or a
wholesale price treated as paid;

11.4.a.ii

for that wholesale price to be specified in or under the regulations, or
determined in accordance with the regulations;

11.4.b

provide for the notional wholesale price to be specified in or under the
regulations, or determined in accordance with the regulations.

11.5

The Secretary of State may review the operation of regulations under this
section.

11.6

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

11.7

Schedule 2 describes particular kinds of provision that may be made by
regulations under this section.

11.8

For provision about time limits on the exercise of the powers conferred by
this section, see Schedule 6.

#### Interpretation of section 11 and Schedule 2

12

12.1

This section applies for the purposes of section 11, this section and Schedule
2.

####### Expressions relating to electricity

12.2

A “licensed electricity supplier” is a person who holds an electricity supply
licence.

12.3

An “electricity supply licence” is a licence granted under Article 10(1)(c) of
the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) ).

12.4

“ NI non-domestic electricity supply ” has the meaning specified in, or
determined in accordance with, regulations made by the Secretary of State; and
regulations under this subsection are subject to the affirmative procedure.

####### Expressions relating to gas

12.5

A “licensed gas supplier” is a person who holds a gas supply licence.

12.6

A “gas supply licence” is a licence granted under Article 8(1)(c) of the Gas
(Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

12.7

“ NI non-domestic gas supply ” has the meaning specified in, or determined in
accordance with, regulations made by the Secretary of State; and regulations
under this subsection are subject to the affirmative procedure.

####### Other expressions

12.8

A reference to a charge for NI non-domestic electricity supply or NI non-
domestic gas supply includes a reference to a charge that does not relate to
electricity or gas supplied (such as a standing charge).

### Support for meeting energy costs etc

#### Power of the Secretary of State to give support for meeting energy costs etc

13

13.1

The Secretary of State may take such steps as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate to—

13.1.a

provide support for meeting costs related to the use of energy;

13.1.b

enable or encourage the efficient use of energy;

13.1.c

provide support for meeting costs related to the supply of energy;

13.1.d

enable or encourage the supply of energy.

13.2

The Secretary of State may take such other steps as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate in response to the energy crisis.

13.3

The steps that may be taken under the powers conferred by subsections  (1)
and  (2)  include—

13.3.a

giving financial assistance (whether directly or indirectly and whether
subject to conditions or not);

13.3.b

acquiring, making available or otherwise enabling access to energy or relevant
infrastructure (including by entering into contracts);

13.3.c

steps in respect of particular descriptions of households, persons or
premises;

13.3.d

dealing with any costs or matters incidental to the exercise of those powers
(whether those costs or matters fall to the Secretary of State or another).

13.4

In subsection  (3)(b)  “ relevant infrastructure ” means infrastructure
related to the supply or use of energy.

13.5

Steps of a kind—

13.5.a

described in subsection  (1)  or  (2) , and

13.5.b

taken by the Secretary of State on or after 1 January 2022 but before the
coming into force of this section,

are, to the extent that they are not authorised by a power of the Secretary of
State arising under any other legislation, authorised by subsection  (1)  or
(2)  (as appropriate).

13.6

Nothing in this section limits a power of the Secretary of State arising under
any other legislation or otherwise.

13.7

For provision about time limits on the exercise of the powers conferred by
this section, see Schedule 6.

#### Procedure and reporting in connection with section 13

14

14.1

The power conferred by section 13 (2)  is exercisable only in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

14.2

Expenditure to be incurred by the Secretary of State—

14.2.a

in consequence of an exercise of the power conferred by section 13 (2) , and

14.2.b

in connection with any one project,

must not exceed £100 million unless the expenditure in excess of that sum is
authorised by a resolution of the House of Commons before the power is
exercised.

14.3

But subsection  (2)  does not apply if the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the exercise of the power is urgent and that it is not reasonably
practicable to obtain the approval of the House of Commons for the connected
expenditure before doing so.

14.4

In such circumstances, the Secretary of State must, as soon as reasonably
practicable, lay a statement concerning that expenditure before Parliament.

14.5

As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of any quarter in which a
power conferred by section 13 is exercised or expenditure is incurred by the
Secretary of State in consequence of the exercise of such a power, the
Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a report stating the amount of,
and containing such other details as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate about—

14.5.a

expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in that quarter in consequence
of the exercise of the powers conferred by section 13,

14.5.b

expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State in consequence of the exercise
of those powers from the time when this Act came into force until the end of
that quarter, and

14.5.c

expenditure expected to be incurred by the Secretary of State in the future in
consequence of the exercise of those powers, both during that quarter and
during previous quarters.

14.6

In subsection  (5)  “ quarter ” means a period of three months ending at the
end of March, June, September or December.

#### Role of other bodies in giving support for meeting energy costs etc

15

15.1

A designated body may take action in support of a step taken under section 13
(a “relevant step”).

15.2

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision about designated
bodies taking action in support of relevant steps.

15.3

The regulations may, in particular, make provision in connection with
designated bodies—

15.3.a

receiving financial assistance,

15.3.b

distributing and otherwise managing financial assistance,

15.3.c

monitoring and accounting for financial assistance,

15.3.d

recovering and returning financial assistance, and

15.3.e

providing information.

15.4

The regulations may—

15.4.a

make provision about how designated bodies are to take action in support of
relevant steps, and

15.4.b

provide for the giving of guidance about how such actions are to be taken.

15.5

Subsection  (1)  applies to action taken by a designated body—

15.5.a

on or after 1 January 2022 but before the coming into force of this section,
and

15.5.b

in support of a step taken by the Secretary of State during that period and of
a kind described in section 13 (1)  or  (2) ,

as it does to action taken by a designated body (in support of a step taken
under section 13) on or after the coming into force of this section.

15.6

The power of the Secretary of State to deal with costs or matters incidental
to the exercise of the powers conferred by section 13 includes dealing with
costs or matters arising under this section.

15.7

A “designated body” is—

15.7.a

a local authority;

15.7.b

a person who is a heat supplier within the meaning of the Heat Network
(Metering and Billing) Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/3120 ) or who otherwise
supplies and charges for the supply of heating, cooling or hot water to a
building or persons in a building;

15.7.c

any other body or person established by or under any primary legislation or
subordinate legislation and designated, in regulations made by the Secretary
of State, for the purposes of this section.

15.8

Regulations under subsection  (2)  or  (7)  are subject to the negative
procedure.

15.9

In this section “ local authority ” means—

15.9.a

a county council in England,

15.9.b

a district council for an area in England for which there is no county
council,

15.9.c

a combined authority established under section 103 of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009,

15.9.d

the Greater London Authority,

15.9.e

a London borough council,

15.9.f

the Common Council of the City of London,

15.9.g

the Council of the Isles of Scilly,

15.9.h

a county council in Wales,

15.9.i

a county borough council in Wales,

15.9.j

a corporate joint committee established by regulations made under Part 5 of
the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021,

15.9.k

a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc. (Scotland)
Act 1994,

15.9.l

a community council in Scotland,

15.9.m

a district council in Northern Ireland.

### Reducing the price of electricity

#### Temporary requirement for electricity generators to make payments

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may, for a purpose mentioned in subsection (2), make
regulations for, and in connection with, requiring periodic payments to be
made to a payment administrator by—

16.1.a

specified electricity generators,

16.1.b

electricity generators that are of a specified description, or

16.1.c

electricity generators that are designated by the Secretary of State in
accordance with the regulations.

16.2

The purposes are—

16.2.a

the purpose of enabling a payment administrator to obtain funds for paying to
electricity suppliers in connection with reducing the cost to customers of
electricity;

16.2.b

the purpose of enabling a payment administrator to obtain funds for meeting
expenditure incurred or to be incurred by the Secretary of State in reducing
the cost to customers of electricity.

16.3

Regulations under this section may include—

16.3.a

provision about the method by which the amount of a periodic payment is to be
calculated;

16.3.b

provision for determining the time at which a periodic payment is to be made;

16.3.c

provision requiring the making of an advance payment in respect of a potential
liability to make a periodic payment and about balancing payments;

16.3.d

provision about interest on a late payment and penalties for a late payment;

16.3.e

provision for a payment, interest or a penalty to be recoverable by a payment
administrator as a civil debt;

16.3.f

provision for amounts received by a payment administrator to be paid by the
payment administrator to electricity suppliers or into the Consolidated Fund;

16.3.g

provision imposing on an electricity supplier that receives a payment from a
payment administrator a requirement to secure that customers of the
electricity supplier receive, by a specified time, such benefit from the
payment as may be specified or determined in accordance with the regulations;

16.3.h

provision for amounts received by a payment administrator to be retained by
the payment administrator to meet expenditure incurred by the payment
administrator in exercising functions under the regulations;

16.3.i

provision conferring functions in connection with the application, monitoring
or enforcement of the regulations on the Secretary of State, a payment
administrator, GEMA, the Northern Ireland Regulator or any other person;

16.3.j

provision conferring functions in connection with the application, monitoring
or enforcement of the regulations on a person designated by the Secretary of
State in accordance with the regulations;

16.3.k

provision conferring powers on any person to require information for the
purpose of exercising their functions under the regulations;

16.3.l

provision for anything which is to be calculated or determined under the
regulations to be calculated or determined by such persons, in accordance with
such procedure and by reference to such matters and to the opinion of such
persons, as may be specified in the regulations;

16.3.m

provision for an appeal against a calculation, determination or other decision
made under the regulations;

16.3.n

provision to deal with the consequences of, or to prohibit or otherwise
regulate, transactions or arrangements that undermine the effectiveness of the
regulations.

16.4

The provision made by virtue of subsection (3)(a) must require the amount of a
periodic payment to be calculated by reference to the quantity of electricity
generated during the period in question by the relevant generating station
with which the electricity generator is concerned.

16.5

The provision made by virtue of subsection (3)(i) may include provision
conferring a power on the Secretary of State to direct that an electricity
generator specified in, or of a description specified in, the direction is not
liable to make further payments under the regulations.

16.6

The provision made by virtue of subsection (3)(i) may include provision for
requirements imposed on a person by the regulations to be enforceable—

16.6.a

by GEMA—

16.6.a.i

as if they were relevant requirements for the purposes of section 25 of the
Electricity Act 1989, and

16.6.a.ii

as if the person were a regulated person for the purposes of that section (if
that is not in fact the case);

16.6.b

by the Northern Ireland Regulator—

16.6.b.i

as if they were relevant requirements for the purposes of Article 41A of the
Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ), and

16.6.b.ii

as if the person were a regulated person for the purposes of that Article (if
that is not in fact the case).

16.7

The first regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

16.8

Any other regulations under this section are subject to the negative
procedure.

16.9

For provision imposing a time limit relevant to the exercise of the powers
conferred by this section, see Schedule 6.

16.10

In this section—

      “ electricity generator ” means a person who owns or has any interest in
a relevant generating station; and a reference to the relevant generating
station with which an electricity generator is concerned is to be read
accordingly;           “ electricity supplier ” means a person who is a holder
of a licence to supply electricity under—         section 6(1)(d) of the
Electricity Act 1989, or           Article 10(1)(c) of the Electricity
(Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) ;                 “
generating station ” means a station which generates electricity or any part
of such a station;           “ payment administrator ” means a person
specified as a payment administrator for the purposes of regulations under
this section;           “ relevant generating station ” means a generating
station—         in respect of which no contract for difference has effect
under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Energy Act 2013 (ignoring any contract for
difference under which no payments have begun to fall due), and           that
is not an accredited FIT installation within the meaning of the Feed-in
Tariffs Order 2012 ( S.I. 2012/2782 );                 “specified”, except in
subsection (5), means specified in regulations under this section.

#### Power to require information in connection with regulations under section 16

17

17.1

The Secretary of State may direct an electricity generator to provide the
Secretary of State with such specified information as the Secretary of State
may reasonably require in connection with the making of regulations under
section 16.

17.2

A direction under this section must be in writing.

17.3

An electricity generator to whom a direction is given under this section must,
so far as reasonably practicable, provide the Secretary of State with the
specified information—

17.3.a

within the specified period, and

17.3.b

in the specified form and manner.

17.4

A direction under this section is enforceable by the Secretary of State in
civil proceedings—

17.4.a

for an injunction,

17.4.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

17.4.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

17.5

In this section—

      “ electricity generator ” has the same meaning as in section 16;
“ information ” includes documents;           “ specified ” means specified in
the direction.

#### Contracts for difference

18

18.1

The Energy Act 2013 is amended as follows.

18.2

In section 6 (power to make regulations about contracts for difference for the
purpose of encouraging low carbon electricity generation)—

18.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

18.2.a.1A

The reference in subsection (1) to encouraging low carbon electricity
generation includes encouraging the continuation of, or an increase in, low
carbon electricity generation by existing generating stations.

, and

18.2.b

in subsection (8), after paragraph (a) insert—

18.2.b.aa

the first regulations made after the passing of the Energy Prices Act 2022
which make provision falling within each of the sections mentioned in
paragraph (a);

.

18.3

In section 7 (designation of a CFD counterparty), in subsection (5), omit the
words from “, but only” to the end.

18.4

In section 17 (payments to electricity suppliers), after subsection (2)
insert—

18.4.2A

Regulations may make provision imposing on an electricity supplier who
receives a payment from a CFD counterparty a requirement to secure that
customers of the electricity supplier receive, by a time specified in the
regulations, such benefit from the payment as may be specified in or
determined in accordance with the regulations.

18.5

In section 19 (information and advice)—

18.5.a

in subsection (2)—

18.5.a.i

in paragraph (c), after “the Northern Ireland system operator” insert  “, an
electricity supplier” ,

18.5.a.ii

after paragraph (c) insert—

18.5.a.ii.ca

for the Authority to require information to be provided to it by a CFD
counterparty or electricity suppliers;

18.5.a.ii.cb

for the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation to require
information to be provided to it by a CFD counterparty or electricity
suppliers;

, and

18.5.a.iii

in paragraph (e), after “to it by” insert  “the Authority, the Northern
Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation,” , and

18.5.b

in subsection (4), at the beginning insert  “Except as provided by
regulations,” .

### Passing on the benefits of reductions and other support

#### Requirement to pass on energy price support to end users

19

19.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations impose pass-through requirements on
persons to whom energy price support is provided (“intermediaries”).

19.2

A “pass-through requirement” is a requirement to secure that the benefit of
energy price support provided to an intermediary is passed on to end users of
the intermediary by a specified time.

19.3

An end user of an intermediary is a person—

19.3.a

to whom energy is made available by the intermediary, where energy price
support has been provided to the intermediary in respect of that energy,

19.3.b

to whom heating, cooling, hot water or electricity is made available by the
intermediary using energy in respect of which energy price support has been
provided to the intermediary, or

19.3.c

who makes a qualifying payment to the intermediary.

19.4

“ Energy price support ” means financial assistance provided—

19.4.a

by way of a payment to a person in connection with energy costs (whether of
that person or of others),

19.4.b

by way of a reduction in the amount to be paid by a person for energy, or

19.4.c

otherwise than as mentioned in paragraph  (a)  or  (b) , to or in respect of a
person under this Act or any scheme established under it,

where the assistance is provided in response to the energy crisis.

19.5

For the purposes of subsection (3)(c), “ qualifying payment ” means a payment
in respect of—

19.5.a

energy, heating, cooling or hot water made available to the person by another
person, or by the intermediary to another person, where (as the case may be)—

19.5.a.i

the energy is energy in respect of which energy price support has been
provided to the intermediary, or

19.5.a.ii

the heating, cooling or hot water is produced using energy in respect of which
energy price support has been provided to the intermediary,

19.5.b

electricity made available to the person by another person, or by the
intermediary to another person, using energy in respect of which energy price
support has been provided to the intermediary, or

19.5.c

the provision by the intermediary of a service, a product or accommodation,
where an identified component of the amount paid relates directly to the use
of—

19.5.c.i

energy in respect of which energy price support has been provided to the
intermediary, or

19.5.c.ii

heating, cooling, hot water or electricity produced using energy in respect of
which energy price support has been provided to the intermediary.

19.6

Regulations under subsection  (1)  must—

19.6.a

specify the benefit to be passed on in accordance with a pass-through
requirement, or

19.6.b

provide for the benefit to be determined in accordance with the regulations.

19.7

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may also, in particular, make provision—

19.7.a

about how the benefit is to be passed on;

19.7.b

about the allocation of the benefit between two or more persons;

19.7.c

for the purpose of determining who is an end user of an intermediary.

19.8

A pass-through requirement may apply to intermediaries generally, to
intermediaries of a specified description, or to specified intermediaries.

19.9

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may require intermediaries to provide
specified information to end users, to the Secretary of State or to other
specified persons.

19.10

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make provision—

19.10.a

for a specified amount, or an amount determined in accordance with the
regulations, to be recoverable as a civil debt by a person who does not
receive the benefit specified or determined by virtue of subsection  (6)  by
the specified time;

19.10.b

for the payment of a specified amount, on an application made in accordance
with the regulations by a person who is an end user of an intermediary, where
the intermediary fails to comply with a requirement by virtue of subsection
(9)  to provide information to the person;

19.10.c

about the payment of interest on any amount referred to in paragraph  (a)  or
(b) ;

19.10.d

for the making of complaints by end users to a specified person;

19.10.e

applying the Heat Network (Metering and Billing) Regulations 2014 ( S.I.
2014/3120 ), with or without modifications, in relation to any requirement by
virtue of subsection  (9)  to provide information to a person within
regulation 10 of those Regulations.

19.11

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (10)(d) —

19.11.a

must set out the grounds on which a complaint may be made (which must relate
to a failure to comply with a requirement imposed by the regulations);

19.11.b

may include provision for—

19.11.b.i

Part 2 of the Consumers, Estate Agents and Redress Act 2007 (complaints
handling and redress schemes) to apply in relation to end users in England,
Wales or Scotland as it applies in relation gas or electricity consumers, or

19.11.b.ii

Article 22 of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I.
6) ) and such other provisions of that Order as relate to it to apply in
relation to end users in Northern Ireland as they apply in relation to a
customer of, or user of electricity or gas supplied by, an authorised
supplier,

with such modifications as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

19.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section so as to add to
the cases in which a person is an end user of an intermediary.

19.13

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

19.14

In this section—

19.14.a

“ specified ” means specified in regulations under subsection  (1) ;

19.14.b

references to energy being made available are to its being made available
otherwise than in accordance with a licence under—

19.14.b.i

section 7A(1) of the Gas Act 1986 or Article 8(1)(c) of the Gas (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ) (gas supply licence), or

19.14.b.ii

section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989 or Article 10(1)(c) of the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) )
(electricity supply licence);

19.14.c

references to the provision of energy price support are to its provision
before, or on or after, the day on which this Act is passed;

19.14.d

references to a person to whom energy price support is provided include
references to a person to whom the benefit of energy price support is provided
indirectly (whether in consequence of a pass-through requirement or
otherwise).

### The domestic energy tariff cap

#### Domestic gas and electricity tariff cap

20

Schedule 3 contains amendments to the Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff
Cap) Act 2018.

### Regulation of energy markets

#### Power of the Secretary of State to modify energy licences etc

21

21.1

The Secretary of State may exercise a power conferred by this section if the
Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so—

21.1.a

in response to the energy crisis, or

21.1.b

in connection with—

21.1.b.i

this Act,

21.1.b.ii

regulations under this Act,

21.1.b.iii

a domestic energy price reduction scheme (including its establishment,
modification or revocation), or

21.1.b.iv

anything done or proposed to be done under, or given effect by, section 13,
any other provision of this Act or regulations under this Act.

21.2

The Secretary of State may modify—

21.2.a

an energy licence (including any conditions, standard or otherwise, of a
licence);

21.2.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of any energy licence,
or an agreement that gives effect to a document so maintained.

21.3

Subsection  (2)  has effect in relation to licences whenever granted and
agreements whenever entered into.

21.4

The power to make modifications under subsection  (2) —

21.4.a

may be exercised—

21.4.a.i

generally,

21.4.a.ii

only in relation to specified cases, or

21.4.a.iii

subject to exceptions;

21.4.b

may be exercised differently in different cases;

21.4.c

includes a power to make consequential, supplementary, incidental, saving or
transitional modifications.

21.5

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection  (2) , conditions included
in an energy licence by virtue of that subsection may do any of the things
authorised for licences by—

21.5.a

section 7(1), (3), (3A), (3C)(a), or (4) to (6A) of the Electricity Act 1989;

21.5.b

section 7B(4), (4A), (5), (5B)(a), (6) or (7) of the Gas Act 1986;

21.5.c

Article 11(2), (3), or (4) to (6B) of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) );

21.5.d

Article 10(2), (3), or (4) to (6A) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (
S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

21.6

Nothing in this section affects any other power—

21.6.a

to modify an energy licence or other document, or

21.6.b

to give a direction (including under section 22(1)).

21.7

If the Secretary of State makes or proposes to make modifications under this
section, the Secretary of State must publish a notice—

21.7.a

setting out the modifications,

21.7.b

explaining the effect of the modifications, and

21.7.c

specifying the date from which the modifications have effect (which may not be
earlier than the day on which they are published).

21.8

Publication under subsection  (7)  must be in a manner the Secretary of State
considers appropriate for bringing the information to the attention of persons
likely to be affected by the modifications.

21.9

Subsection  (7)  applies in respect of a proposed modification only if the
Secretary of State considers it appropriate in all the circumstances to
publish the notice and (in accordance with subsection  (10) ) consider
representations before making the modification.

21.10

Where the duty in subsection  (7)  applies in respect of a proposed
modification, the Secretary of State must (before making the modification)
consider any representations made by persons likely to be affected by the
modification.

21.11

In this section “ energy licence ” means—

21.11.a

a licence for the purposes of section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989;

21.11.b

a licence for the purposes of section 5 of the Gas Act 1986;

21.11.c

a licence granted under Article 10 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) );

21.11.d

a licence granted under Article 8 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (
S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

#### Power of Secretary of State to give directions

22

22.1

The Secretary of State may exercise a power conferred by this section if the
Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so—

22.1.a

in response to the energy crisis, or

22.1.b

in connection with—

22.1.b.i

this Act,

22.1.b.ii

regulations under this Act,

22.1.b.iii

a domestic energy price reduction scheme (including its establishment,
modification or revocation), or

22.1.b.iv

anything done or proposed to be done under, or given effect by, section 13,
any other provision of this Act or regulations under this Act.

22.2

The Secretary of State may give a person who is subject to directions under
this section—

22.2.a

a direction of a general character;

22.2.b

a direction to do (or not do) a specific thing.

22.3

The following are subject to directions under this section—

22.3.a

the Northern Ireland Regulator;

22.3.b

a person who holds an energy licence.

22.4

A direction under this section—

22.4.a

must be in writing;

22.4.b

may be varied or revoked by a subsequent direction given by the Secretary of
State.

22.5

So far as a direction under this section conflicts with the requirements of an
enactment or instrument or with any duty which arises otherwise than under an
enactment or instrument the requirements are or the duty is to be disregarded.

22.6

In this section “ energy licence ” means—

22.6.a

a licence for the purposes of section 4 of the Electricity Act 1989;

22.6.b

a licence for the purposes of section 5 of the Gas Act 1986;

22.6.c

a licence granted under Article 10 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) );

22.6.d

a licence granted under Article 8 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (
S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

#### Regulation of the Northern Ireland energy market

23

Schedule 4 contains provision about regulation of the Northern Ireland energy
market.

### Final provisions

#### Concurrent exercise of powers by the Department for the Economy

24

Schedule 5 provides for certain powers of the Secretary of State under this
Act to be exercisable concurrently by the Department for the Economy in
Northern Ireland.

#### Time limits on exercise of certain powers under this Act

25

Schedule 6 provides for time limits on the exercise of certain powers
conferred by this Act.

#### Regulations

26

26.1

Regulations made under this Act by the Secretary of State are to be made by
statutory instrument.

26.2

A power to make regulations under this Act includes power to make—

26.2.a

different provision for different purposes or cases;

26.2.b

incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

26.2.c

transitional, transitory or saving provision.

26.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the negative procedure, the
statutory instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

26.4

Where regulations under this Act—

26.4.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure, and

26.4.b

are made after the initial period,

they may not be made unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing
them has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of
Parliament.

26.5

Where regulations under this Act—

26.5.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure, and

26.5.b

are made during the initial period,

the statutory instrument containing them must be laid before Parliament after
being made.

26.6

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (5)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

26.7

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

26.7.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

26.7.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

26.8

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (7) , that does
not—

26.8.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

26.8.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

26.9

Any provision that may be included in regulations under this Act subject to
the negative procedure may be made by regulations subject to the affirmative
procedure.

26.10

If a draft of a statutory instrument containing regulations made under this
Act by the Secretary of State would, apart from this subsection, be treated
for the purposes of the Standing Orders of either House of Parliament as a
hybrid instrument, it is to proceed in that House as if were not a hybrid
instrument.

26.11

In this section “ initial period ” means the period of six months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed.

#### Consequential provision etc

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make provision that is
consequential on—

27.1.a

this Act, or

27.1.b

regulations under this Act.

27.2

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make any provision which the
Secretary of State considers appropriate in connection with—

27.2.a

a domestic energy price reduction scheme (including its establishment,
modification or revocation), or

27.2.b

anything done or proposed to be done under, or given effect by, section 13,
any other provision of this Act or any regulations under this Act.

27.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with—

27.3.a

any provision of this Act ceasing to have effect to any extent, or

27.3.b

any power ceasing to be exercisable by the Secretary of State or by the
Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland,

under Schedule 4, 5 or 6.

27.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  may, in particular, make provision for the
transfer of property, rights and liabilities (whether or not otherwise capable
of being transferred), including any acquired or arising after the regulations
are made.

27.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  may amend or repeal provision made
by primary legislation passed before, or in the same Session as, this Act.

27.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  (whether alone or with other provision) are
subject to the affirmative procedure.

27.7

Any other regulations under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  are subject to the
negative procedure.

27.8

Schedule 7 contains amendments of legislation.

27.9

For provision about the modification of energy licences, see section 21.

#### Interpretation

28

28.1

For the purposes of this Act something is done “in response to the energy
crisis” if it is done for the purpose of responding to a relevant change in
the price of energy (including responding to a cause or effect, or anticipated
cause or effect, of a relevant change).

28.2

A change in the price of energy is a “relevant change” if it—

28.2.a

occurred on or after 1 January 2022 and before this Act came into force, or

28.2.b

occurs after this Act is passed.

28.3

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  do not prevent something from being done in
response to the energy crisis that will or may produce a result that is
different from the position at a time before 1 January 2022.

28.4

In this Act—

      “ affirmative procedure ” is to be construed in accordance with section
26 (4)  to  (7) ;           “ domestic electricity price reduction scheme for
Great Britain ” has the meaning given in section 1 (2) ;           “ domestic
electricity price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland ” has the meaning
given in section 5 (2) ;           “ domestic energy price reduction scheme ”
means—         a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Great
Britain,           a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Northern
Ireland,           a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain, or
a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland;                 “
domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain ” has the meaning given
in section 1 (4) ;           “ domestic gas price reduction scheme for
Northern Ireland ” has the meaning given in section 5 (4) ;           “ energy
” means—         natural gas,           petroleum (in any form),           any
other substance (whether solid, liquid or gaseous) used as fuel, and
electricity;                 “ GEMA ” means the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority;           “ modify ” includes amend, repeal and revoke (and, in
particular, a power to modify an agreement includes power to make a person a
party to an agreement, or to discharge a party from the party’s obligations
under the agreement);           “ negative procedure ” is to be construed in
accordance with section 26 (3) ;           “ Northern Ireland Regulator ”
means the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation;           “
primary legislation ” means—         an Act,           an Act or Measure of
Senedd Cymru,           an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or
Northern Ireland legislation;                 “ subordinate legislation ”
means an instrument made under primary legislation.

#### Application to the Crown

29

This Act binds the Crown.

#### Extent, commencement and short title

30

30.1

These provisions of this Act extend to England and Wales and Scotland—

30.1.a

sections 1 to 4;

30.1.b

sections 9 and 10 and Schedule 1;

30.1.c

section 20 and Schedule 3.

30.2

These provisions of this Act extend to Northern Ireland only—

30.2.a

sections 5 to 8;

30.2.b

sections 11 and 12 and Schedule 2;

30.2.c

section 23 and Schedule 4;

30.2.d

section 24 and Schedule 5.

30.3

The amendments made by Schedule 7 have the same extent as the legislation
amended.

30.4

The other provisions of this Act extend to England and Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

30.5

Section 18 comes into force at the end of the period of two months beginning
with the day on which this Act is passed.

30.6

The other provisions of this Act come into force on the day on which it is
passed.

30.7

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of
this Act.

30.8

This Act may be cited as the Energy Prices Act 2022.

## SCHEDULES

  Non-domestic relief regulations for Great Britain

Section 9

##### Introduction

1

In this Schedule—

      “ energy supply ” means—         GB non-domestic electricity supply, or
GB non-domestic gas supply;                 “ licensed supplier ” means—
a licensed electricity supplier, or           a licensed gas supplier;
“ GB non-domestic relief regulations ” means regulations under section 9 (1)
or  (2) ;           “ support scheme ” means provision in GB non-domestic
relief regulations for—         reducing the amounts that would otherwise be
charged for energy supply by licensed suppliers, and           making payments
to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

##### Application of GB non-domestic relief regulations

2

2.1

GB non-domestic relief regulations may relate to charges for energy supply
that took place before section 9 or the regulations came into force (including
charges made or paid before that section or the regulations came into force).

2.2

GB non-domestic relief regulations may apply to energy supply to only some
descriptions of customers.

2.3

GB non-domestic relief regulations may apply to only some descriptions or
parts of energy supply.

2.4

The power under section 26 (2)(a)  for GB non-domestic relief regulations to
make different provision for different cases includes power for those
regulations to make different provision—

2.4.a

for energy supply to different descriptions of customers,

2.4.b

for different descriptions of energy supply, or

2.4.c

for different parts of energy supply.

2.5

That includes different provision for reducing the amount that would otherwise
be charged for energy supply by licensed suppliers.

##### Delegation

3

3.1

GB non-domestic relief regulations may provide for functions (including
functions involving the exercise of a discretion) to be exercisable by any
person (including the Secretary of State).

3.2

In particular, the regulations may confer power—

3.2.a

to make rules or other subordinate legislation (and may provide for them to be
made by statutory instrument), or

3.2.b

to give directions.

##### Powers and duties

4

4.1

GB non-domestic relief regulations may provide for duties to be imposed on, or
powers to be conferred on, any person (including the Secretary of State).

4.2

That includes powers or duties relating to the provision, or making available,
of information.

##### Modification of contracts

5

GB non-domestic relief regulations may modify, or make other provision in
relation to, the terms of contracts or other arrangements relating to energy
supply.

##### Enforcement

6

6.1

GB non-domestic relief regulations may provide for civil penalties.

6.2

GB non-domestic relief regulations may provide for obligations under the
regulations to be enforceable as, or as if they were, relevant requirements
for the purposes of section 25 of the Electricity Act 1989 or section 28 of
the Gas Act 1986.

##### Exclusion of liability

7

GB non-domestic relief regulations may provide for a person not to be liable
in damages for things done or omitted in the exercise or purported exercise of
functions under the regulations.

##### Avoidance of abuse or unreasonable reliance on support schemes

8

GB non-domestic relief regulations may make provision to deal with the
consequences of, or to prohibit or otherwise regulate, transactions or
arrangements which the Secretary of State considers manipulate or otherwise
abuse—

8.a

any support scheme, or

8.b

the availability of any support scheme.

##### Financially disadvantaged customers

9

9.1

GB non-domestic relief regulations may make provision about the terms on which
licensed suppliers are to provide energy supply to which a support scheme
relates to a specified description of customers.

9.2

That includes provision about—

9.2.a

terms on which the customers must, or must not, be provided with the energy
supply;

9.2.b

factors which must, or must not, be taken into account in deciding the terms
on which the customers are to be provided with the energy supply;

9.2.c

the way in which factors may be taken into account in deciding the terms on
which the customers are to be provided with the energy supply.

9.3

The Secretary of State may specify a description of customers for the purposes
of regulations under this paragraph only if the Secretary of State considers
that customers within that description are financially disadvantaged.

9.4

This paragraph does not limit the provision that may be made under paragraph
5 .

  Non-domestic relief regulations for Northern Ireland

Section 11

##### Introduction

1

In this Schedule—

      “ energy supply ” means—         NI non-domestic electricity supply, or
NI non-domestic gas supply;                 “ licensed supplier ” means—
a licensed electricity supplier, or           a licensed gas supplier;
“ NI non-domestic relief regulations ” means regulations under section 11 (1)
or  (2) ;           “ support scheme ” means provision in NI non-domestic
relief regulations for—         reducing the amounts that would otherwise be
charged for energy supply by licensed suppliers, and           making payments
to those suppliers in respect of those reductions.

##### Application of NI non-domestic relief regulations

2

2.1

NI non-domestic relief regulations may relate to charges for energy supply
that took place before section 11 or the regulations came into force
(including charges made or paid before that section or the regulations came
into force).

2.2

NI non-domestic relief regulations may apply to energy supply to only some
descriptions of customers.

2.3

NI non-domestic relief regulations may apply to only some descriptions or
parts of energy supply.

2.4

The power under section 26 (2)(a)  for non-domestic relief regulations to make
different provision for different cases includes power for those regulations
to make different provision—

2.4.a

for energy supply to different descriptions of customers,

2.4.b

for different descriptions of energy supply, or

2.4.c

for different parts of energy supply.

2.5

That includes different provision for reducing the amount that would otherwise
be charged for energy supply by licensed suppliers.

##### Delegation

3

3.1

NI non-domestic relief regulations may provide for functions (including
functions involving the exercise of a discretion) to be exercisable by any
person (including the Secretary of State).

3.2

In particular, the regulations may confer power—

3.2.a

to make rules or other subordinate legislation (and may provide for them to be
made by statutory rule), or

3.2.b

to give directions.

##### Powers and duties

4

4.1

NI non-domestic relief regulations may provide for duties to be imposed on, or
powers to be conferred on, any person (including the Secretary of State).

4.2

That includes powers or duties relating to the provision, or making available,
of information.

##### Modification of contracts

5

NI non-domestic relief regulations may modify, or make other provision in
relation to, the terms of contracts or other arrangements relating to energy
supply.

##### Enforcement

6

6.1

NI non-domestic relief regulations may provide for civil penalties.

6.2

NI non-domestic relief regulations may provide for obligations under the
regulations to be enforceable as, or as if they were, relevant requirements
for the purposes of Article 41A or 41B of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order
2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ).

##### Exclusion of liability

7

NI non-domestic relief regulations may provide for a person not to be liable
in damages for things done or omitted in the exercise or purported exercise of
functions under the regulations.

##### Avoidance of abuse or unreasonable reliance on support schemes

8

NI non-domestic relief regulations may make provision to deal with the
consequences of, or to prohibit or otherwise regulate, transactions or
arrangements which the Secretary of State considers manipulate or otherwise
abuse—

8.a

any support scheme, or

8.b

the availability of any support scheme.

##### Financially disadvantaged customers

9

9.1

NI non-domestic relief regulations may make provision about the terms on which
licensed suppliers are to provide energy supply to which a support scheme
relates to a specified description of customers.

9.2

That includes provision about—

9.2.a

terms on which the customers must, or must not, be provided with the energy
supply;

9.2.b

factors which must, or must not, be taken into account in deciding the terms
on which the customers are to be provided with the energy supply;

9.2.c

the way in which factors may be taken into account in deciding the terms on
which the customers are to be provided with the energy supply.

9.3

The Secretary of State may specify a description of customers for the purposes
of regulations under this paragraph only if the Secretary of State considers
that customers within that description are financially disadvantaged.

9.4

This paragraph does not limit the provision that may be made under paragraph
5 .

Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff Cap) Act 2018

Section 20

##### Amendments to 2018 Act

1

The Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff Cap) Act 2018 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 1 (cap on standard variable and default rates) is amended as follows.

2.2

After subsection (3) insert—

2.2.3A

If tariff cap conditions cease to have effect by virtue of section 8 in the
case of supply licences for the supply of gas but continue to have effect in
the case of supply licences for the supply of electricity, or vice versa, the
reference in subsection (2)(b) to the standard supply licence conditions is to
be construed accordingly.

2.3

In subsection (6), after paragraph (d) insert—

2.3.e

the need to set the cap at a level that takes account of the impact of the cap
on public spending.

2.4

After subsection (6) insert—

2.4.6A

In performing the duty under subsection (6)(e), the Authority must have regard
to any information provided to it by the Secretary of State, or any guidance
given by the Secretary of State, in relation to the matter mentioned in that
provision.

3

3.1

Section 5 (publication and effect of modifications) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (4), for “56 days” substitute  “25 working days” .

3.3

After subsection (4) insert—

3.3.5

In subsection (4), “ working day ” means a day other than—

3.3.5.a

Saturday or Sunday,

3.3.5.b

Christmas Day or Good Friday, or

3.3.5.c

a day which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act
1971 in any part of the United Kingdom.

4

4.1

Section 6 (review of level at which cap is set) is amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (1) insert—

4.2.1A

As soon as practicable after carrying out a review under subsection (1), the
Authority must—

4.2.1A.a

produce a statement stating whether, in consequence of the review, the
Authority proposes to change the level at which the cap is set, and

4.2.1A.b

send a copy of the statement to the Secretary of State.

4.2.1B

The Authority must publish a statement under subsection (1A) as soon as
practicable after complying with that subsection.

4.3

Omit subsection (2).

5

Omit section 7.

6

For section 8 substitute—

######### Termination of tariff cap conditions

6.8

6.8.1

The Secretary of State may at any time give a notice that tariff cap
conditions are to cease to have effect in the case of—

6.8.1.a

all supply licences,

6.8.1.b

all supply licences for the supply of gas, or

6.8.1.c

all supply licences for the supply of electricity.

6.8.2

Where the Secretary of State gives a notice under subsection  (1) , tariff cap
conditions cease to have effect, in the case of licences to which the notice
relates, on the date specified in the notice.

6.8.3

In deciding whether to give a notice under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of
State must have regard to the desirability of ensuring that tariff cap
conditions continue to have effect—

6.8.3.a

in the case of supply licences for the supply of electricity, for so long as a
scheme is designated for the purposes of section 2 of the Energy Prices Act
2022 (domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Great Britain);

6.8.3.b

in the case of supply licences for the supply of gas, for so long as a scheme
is designated for the purposes of section 3 of the Energy Prices Act 2022
(domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain).

6.8.4

The Secretary of State must publish a notice under subsection  (1) .

6.8.5

Where tariff cap conditions cease to have effect as provided by this section
in the case of all supply licences, the functions of the Authority under
section 1 cease to be exercisable.

6.8.6

Where tariff cap conditions cease to have effect as provided by this section
in the case of supply licences for the supply of gas, the functions of the
Authority under section 1 cease to be exercisable in relation to such
licences.

6.8.7

Where tariff cap conditions cease to have effect as provided by this section
in the case of supply licences for the supply of electricity, the functions of
the Authority under section 1 cease to be exercisable in relation to such
licences.

7

In section 9(1) (protection for domestic customers after termination of tariff
cap conditions), for the words from “Before” to “the Authority must”
substitute  “The Authority must, at such intervals as it considers
appropriate,” .

8

8.1

Section 10 (consequential modification of standard supply licence conditions)
is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1), after “effect” insert  “, in the case of all supply
licences,” .

8.3

After subsection (1) insert—

8.3.1A

The Authority may make such modifications of any standard conditions
incorporated in supply licences by virtue of section 8 of the Gas Act 1986 as
it considers necessary or expedient in consequence of tariff cap conditions
ceasing to have effect as provided by section 8 in the case only of supply
licences for the supply of gas.

8.3.1B

The Authority may make such modifications of any standard conditions
incorporated in supply licences by virtue of section 8A of the Electricity Act
1989 as it considers necessary or expedient in consequence of tariff cap
conditions ceasing to have effect as provided by section 8 in the case only of
supply licences for the supply of electricity.

8.4

In subsection (2)(a), for “the modifications” substitute  “modifications made
under this section” .

8.5

In subsection (3), after “modification” insert  “made under this section” .

##### Transitional provision

9

9.1

This paragraph applies if—

9.1.a

paragraph  5  of this Schedule comes into force on or after 1 November 2022,
and

9.1.b

in relation to the review carried out in 2022 under section 7 of the 2018 Act
(review of competition for domestic supply contracts), no statement was
published in accordance with section 7(6) of that Act.

9.2

In such a case—

9.2.a

tariff cap conditions continue to have effect, notwithstanding section 8(3) of
the 2018 Act, until they cease to have effect in accordance with section 8 of
that Act (as substituted by paragraph  6  of this Schedule), and

9.2.b

section 7(5) and (6) of the 2018 Act (duty to publish statement following
review) is to be treated as not having applied in relation to the review.

9.3

In this paragraph—

“ the 2018 Act ” means the Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff Cap) Act 2018;
“ tariff cap conditions ” has the same meaning as in the 2018 Act.

  Regulation of the Northern Ireland energy market

Section 23

##### Simplification of procedure for modifying conditions of electricity licences

1

1.1

This paragraph applies to the exercise of the power conferred by Article 14 of
the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) )
(modification of conditions of electricity licences) by the Northern Ireland
Regulator in response to the energy crisis.

1.2

These provisions of Article 14 do not apply to the exercise of the power—

1.2.a

paragraphs (2)(d), (3), (5) and (8)(c) (representations with respect to
proposed modification);

1.2.b

paragraph (10) (56 day standstill period before modification takes effect).

1.3

If, before the Northern Ireland Regulator decides to proceed with the making
of a proposed modification by the exercise of the power, the Department
directs the Regulator not to make that modification, the Regulator shall
comply with the direction.

1.4

Article 14(7) has effect subject to sub-paragraph  (2) .

1.5

An appeal may not be brought under Article 14B in respect of the exercise of
the power.

##### Simplification of procedure for modifying conditions of gas licences

2

2.1

This section applies to the exercise of the power conferred by Article 14 of
the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ) (modification
of conditions of gas licences) by the Northern Ireland Regulator in response
to the energy crisis.

2.2

These provisions of Article 14 do not apply to the exercise of the power—

2.2.a

paragraphs (2)(d), (3), (5) and (8)(c) (representations with respect to
proposed modification);

2.2.b

paragraph (10) (56 day standstill period before modification takes effect).

2.3

If, before the Northern Ireland Regulator decides to proceed with the making
of a proposed modification by the exercise of the power, the Department
directs the Regulator not to make that modification, the Regulator shall
comply with the direction.

2.4

Article 14(7) has effect subject to sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.5

An appeal may not be brought under Article 14B in respect of the exercise of
the power.

##### Expiry of this Schedule

3

3.1

This Schedule ceases to have effect at the end of the relevant period.

3.2

In this paragraph “ relevant period ” means the first period of 6 months to
end after this Act is passed during the whole of which both the First Minister
and deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland have held office.

3.3

That includes any such period which began before the day on which this Act is
passed.

3.4

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, substitute the period of time
specified in sub-paragraph  (2)  (for the purposes of this Schedule or a
paragraph of this Schedule).

3.5

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (4)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

##### Interpretation

4

In this Schedule—

      “ Department ” means the Department for the Economy in Northern Ireland;
“ electricity licence ” means a licence granted under Article 10 of the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/231 (N.I. 1) );
“ gas licence ” means a licence granted under Article 8 of the Gas (Northern
Ireland) Order 1996 ( S.I. 1996/275 (N.I. 2) ).

  Powers and expiry of powers in respect of Northern Ireland

Section 24

##### Powers exercisable concurrently by the Department for the Economy

1

1.1

A power conferred on the Secretary of State by any of the following provisions
of this Act may be exercised concurrently by the Department for the Economy in
Northern Ireland (“ the Department ”)—

1.1.a

section 5 (domestic energy price reduction: Northern Ireland);

1.1.b

section 11 (non-domestic energy charges: Northern Ireland);

1.1.c

section 13 (support for meeting energy costs etc.);

1.1.d

section 15 (role of other bodies in support for meeting energy costs etc.);

1.1.e

section 19 (passing on energy price support);

1.1.f

section 21 (modification of energy licences);

1.1.g

section 22 (directions);

1.1.h

section 27 (consequential provision).

1.2

Accordingly, for that purpose—

1.2.a

a reference to the Secretary of State in any of those provisions or any
related provision is to be read as a reference to the Department, and

1.2.b

a reference to the House of Commons or Parliament in any of those provisions
or any related provision is to be read as a reference to the Northern Ireland
Assembly,

(but see paragraphs  3  and  4  for additional and alternative provision about
section 14 and regulations generally).

##### Limitations on the exercise of particular powers by the Department

2

2.1

The Department may exercise the power in section 21 only in respect of a
licence granted under Article 10 of the Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order
1992 or Article 8 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

2.2

The Department may exercise the power in section 22 only for the purpose of
giving a direction to—

2.2.a

the Northern Ireland Regulator;

2.2.b

a person who holds a licence granted under Article 10 of the Electricity
(Northern Ireland) Order 1992 or Article 8 of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order
1996.

##### Application of section 14 to the exercise of powers by the Department

3

3.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the exercise of the powers in section 13
by the Department.

3.2

If the First Minister or deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland is not
holding office at a time when the Department would otherwise—

3.2.a

seek the approval of the Northern Ireland Assembly for particular expenditure
in accordance with section 14 (2) , that expenditure may instead be approved
by a resolution of the House of Commons;

3.2.b

lay a statement concerning urgent expenditure before the Northern Ireland
Assembly in accordance with section 14 (4) , that statement may instead be
laid by the Secretary of State before Parliament;

3.2.c

lay a report concerning expenditure before the Northern Ireland Assembly in
accordance with section 14 (5) , that report may instead be laid by the
Secretary of State before Parliament.

##### Regulations made by the Department

4

4.1

This paragraph applies where a power conferred by this Act to make regulations
is exercisable concurrently by the Department.

4.2

Any provision made by the Department must be within the devolved competence of
the Northern Ireland Assembly.

4.3

A provision is within the devolved competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly
if—

4.3.a

the provision, if it were contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern
Ireland Assembly—

4.3.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Assembly, and

4.3.a.ii

would not require the consent of the Secretary of State; or

4.3.b

the provision—

4.3.b.i

amends or repeals Northern Ireland legislation, and

4.3.b.ii

would, if it were contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland
Assembly, be within the legislative competence of the Assembly and require the
consent of the Secretary of State.

4.4

Any power of the Department to make regulations is exercisable by statutory
rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (
S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12) ) (and not by statutory instrument).

4.5

If regulations made by the Secretary of State under a power in this Act would
be subject to—

4.5.a

the affirmative procedure, regulations may not be made by the Department under
that power unless a draft of the statutory rule containing the regulations has
been laid before and approved by a resolution of the Northern Ireland
Assembly;

4.5.b

the negative procedure, a statutory rule containing regulations made by the
Department under that power is subject to negative resolution within the
meaning given by section 41(6) of the  Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland)
1954 (c. 33 (N.I.)) .

##### Expiry of the Department’s powers

5

A power conferred by any of the following provisions of this Act ceases to be
exercisable concurrently by the Department at the end of the relevant period
(and accordingly the related provision in paragraph  1(1)  ceases to have
effect)—

5.a

section 5;

5.b

section 11;

5.c

section 13;

5.d

section 15;

5.e

section 19;

5.f

section 21;

5.g

section 22;

5.h

section 27.

##### Expiry of the Secretary of State’s powers in respect of Northern Ireland

6

A power conferred by any of the following provisions of this Act ceases to be
exercisable by the Secretary of State at the end of the relevant period—

6.a

section 5;

6.b

section 11.

##### Meaning of “relevant period”

7

7.1

In this Schedule “ relevant period ” means the first period of 6 months to end
after this Act is passed during the whole of which both the First Minister and
deputy First Minister in Northern Ireland have held office.

7.2

That includes any such period which began before the day on which this Act is
passed.

7.3

The Secretary of State may, by regulations, substitute the period of time
specified in sub-paragraph  (1)  (for the purposes of paragraph  5 , paragraph
6 , both of those paragraphs or any sub-paragraph of those paragraphs).

7.4

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (3)  are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

##### Continuity of the Department’s powers

8

A power exercisable concurrently by the Department by virtue of paragraph
1(1)  continues to be so exercisable even if that power has ceased to be
exercisable by the Secretary of State.

  Time limits on the exercise of certain powers under this Act

Section 25

##### Domestic electricity price reduction schemes for Great Britain

1

1.1

This paragraph applies to a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for
Great Britain if that scheme, or any other such scheme, has been designated.

1.2

The scheme may not provide for the reduction of the amount charged for
domestic electricity supply if that supply takes place after the end of the
period of two years beginning with 1 October 2022.

1.3

That period may be extended in accordance with paragraph  9 .

1.4

In this paragraph “ designated ” means designated under section 2.

##### Domestic gas price reduction schemes for Great Britain

2

2.1

This paragraph applies to a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great
Britain if that scheme, or any other such scheme, has been designated.

2.2

The scheme may not provide for the reduction of the amount charged for
domestic gas supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period of
two years beginning with 1 October 2022.

2.3

That period may be extended in accordance with paragraph  9 .

2.4

In this paragraph “ designated ” means designated under section 3.

##### Domestic electricity price reduction schemes for Northern Ireland

3

3.1

This paragraph applies to a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for
Northern Ireland if that scheme, or any other such scheme, has been
designated.

3.2

The scheme may not provide for the reduction of the amount charged for
domestic electricity supply if that supply takes place after the end of the
period of two years beginning with the operative date of the only or first
scheme to be designated.

3.3

That period may be extended in accordance with paragraph  9 .

3.4

In this paragraph—

      “ designated ” means designated under section 6;           “ operative
date ”, in relation to a designated scheme, means the first day on which
domestic electricity supply takes place at a charge reduced in accordance with
the scheme.

##### Domestic gas price reduction schemes for Northern Ireland

4

4.1

This paragraph applies to a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Northern
Ireland if that scheme, or any other such scheme, has been designated.

4.2

The scheme may not provide for the reduction of the amount charged for
domestic gas supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period of
two years beginning with the operative date of the only or first scheme to be
designated.

4.3

That period may be extended in accordance with paragraph  9 .

4.4

In this paragraph—

      “ designated ” means designated under section 7;           “ operative
date ”, in relation to a designated scheme, means the first day on which
domestic gas supply takes place at a charge reduced in accordance with the
scheme.

##### Reduced energy charges for non-domestic customers in Great Britain

5

5.1

Regulations under section 9 (1)  may not provide for the reduction of charges
for electricity supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period
of two years beginning with the operative date of the first regulations made
under section 9 (1) .

5.2

Additionally, regulations under section 9 (1) —

5.2.a

may only provide for the reduction of charges for electricity supply that
takes place during a period of six months or less;

5.2.b

but may provide for the reduction of charge for electricity supply that takes
place during up to four such periods;

5.2.c

must, if they provide for the reduction of charges for electricity supply that
takes place during more than one such period, provide for each period to begin
immediately after the end of a preceding period.

5.3

Regulations under section 9 (2)  may not provide for the reduction of charges
for gas supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period of two
years beginning with the operative date of the first regulations made under
section 9 (2) .

5.4

Additionally, regulations under section 9 (2) —

5.4.a

may only provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes place
during a period of six months or less;

5.4.b

but may provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes place
during up to four such periods;

5.4.c

must, if they provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes
place during more than one such period, provide for each period to begin
immediately after the end of a preceding period.

5.5

In this paragraph—

      “ operative date ”, in relation to regulations under section 9 (1)  or
(2) , means the first day on which GB non-domestic electricity supply or gas
supply takes place at a charge reduced in accordance with regulations made
under that provision;           “ reduction of charges for electricity supply
” means reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for GB non-
domestic electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers;           “
reduction of charges for gas supply ” means reducing the amounts that would
otherwise be charged for GB non-domestic gas supply by licensed gas suppliers.

##### Reduced energy charges for non-domestic customers in Northern Ireland

6

6.1

Regulations under section 11 (1)  may not provide for the reduction of charges
for electricity supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period
of two years beginning with the operative date of the first regulations made
under section 11 (1) .

6.2

Additionally, regulations under section 11 (1) —

6.2.a

may only provide for the reduction of charges for electricity supply that
takes place during a period of six months or less;

6.2.b

but may provide for the reduction of charges for electricity supply that takes
place during up to four such periods;

6.2.c

must, if they provide for the reduction of charges for electricity supply that
takes place during more than one such period, provide for each period to begin
immediately after the end of a preceding period.

6.3

Regulations under section 11 (2)  may not provide for the reduction of charges
for gas supply if that supply takes place after the end of the period of two
years beginning with the operative date of the first regulations made under
section 11 (2) .

6.4

Additionally, regulations under section 11 (2) —

6.4.a

may only provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes place
during a period of six months or less;

6.4.b

but may provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes place
during up to four such periods;

6.4.c

must, if they provide for the reduction of charges for gas supply that takes
place during more than one such period, provide for each period to begin
immediately after the end of a preceding period.

6.5

In this paragraph—

      “ operative date ”, in relation to regulations under section 11 (1)  or
(2) , means the first day on which NI non-domestic electricity supply or gas
supply takes place at a charge reduced in accordance with regulations made
under that provision;           “ reduction of charges for electricity supply
” means reducing the amounts that would otherwise be charged for NI non-
domestic electricity supply by licensed electricity suppliers;           “
reduction of charges for gas supply ” means reducing the amounts that would
otherwise be charged for NI non-domestic gas supply by licensed gas suppliers.

##### Power of the Secretary of State to give support for meeting energy costs etc

7

7.1

The powers conferred by section 13 cease to be exercisable at the end of the
period of three years and six months beginning with the day on which this Act
is passed.

7.2

That period may be extended in accordance with paragraph  9 .

7.3

Sub-paragraph  (1)  does not prevent the powers conferred by section 13 from
being exercised in a manner that could have an effect (including through the
creation of rights, privileges, obligations or liabilities) which continues
after the period when the power is exercisable.

##### Temporary requirement for electricity generators to make payments

8

8.1

Regulations under section 16 may not require an electricity generator to make
a periodic payment in respect of a period that expires after the end of the
period of 5 years beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

8.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this paragraph so as to
substitute a longer period for the period specified for the time being in sub-
paragraph  (1) .

8.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Extension of certain periods

9

9.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that any of the relevant
time periods—

9.1.a

does not end at the time when it would otherwise end (whether by virtue of the
original limitation or previous regulations under this paragraph), and

9.1.b

ends instead at such later time as is specified in the regulations.

9.2

Regulations under sub-paragraph  (1)  relating to a relevant time period must
not provide for that period to end after the end of the period of 6 months
beginning with the time when the relevant time period would otherwise have
ended (whether by virtue of the original limitation or previous regulations
under this paragraph).

9.3

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to the affirmative procedure.

9.4

In this paragraph—

      “ original limitation ” means paragraph  1(2) ,  2(2) ,  3(2) ,  4(2)
or  7(1) ;           “ relevant time period ” means any of the periods
(initially of two years’ length or three years and six months’ length)
referred to in the original limitations.

Amendments of legislation

Section 27

##### Acts of Parliament

###### Gas Act 1986

1

In Schedule 4B to the Gas Act 1986 (provisions imposing obligations that are
enforceable as relevant requirements), in paragraph 4 (obligations of gas
suppliers and gas shippers), after paragraph (e) insert—

1.f

section 3 (2) ,  (3)  or  (4)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022, except section 3
(2)(c)  or  (4)(b)  insofar as non-compliance with the terms of the designated
scheme involves the amounts payable by or to the Secretary of State under the
scheme;

1.g

section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022.

###### Electricity Act 1989

2

In Schedule 6A to the Electricity Act 1989 (provisions imposing obligations
that are enforceable as relevant requirements), in paragraph 6 (obligations of
supply licence holders), after paragraph (f) insert—

2.g

section 2 (2)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022, except section 2 (2)(c)  insofar
as non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme involves the amounts
payable by or to the Secretary of State under the scheme;

2.h

section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022.

###### Utilities Act 2000

3

The Utilities Act 2000 is amended as follows.

4

In section 33(1) (standard conditions of electricity licences)—

4.a

in paragraph (i), omit the second “or”;

4.b

in paragraph (j), after “2022” insert

, or

4.b.k

under or by virtue of section 21 of the Energy Prices Act 2022

.

5

In section 81(2) (standard conditions of gas licences), after “Smart Meters
Act 2018” insert  “or under or by virtue of section 21 of the Energy Prices
Act 2022” .

6

In section 105 (general restrictions on disclosure of information)—

6.a

in subsection (1), after “2022” insert  “or a relevant scheme or regulations
made under section 9 (1)  or  (2)  or section 16 of the Energy Prices Act
2022” ;

6.b

in subsection (3), after paragraph (ab) insert—

6.b.ac

it is required by any person in exercise of a power to require information
conferred by regulations under section 16 of the Energy Prices Act 2022;

;

6.c

after subsection (8) insert—

6.c.8A

Subsection (1) does not apply to a disclosure of information which has been
obtained—

6.c.8A.a

under or by virtue of a relevant scheme if it is made by a person in
connection with that person’s performance of the terms of that relevant
scheme, or

6.c.8A.b

under or by virtue of regulations made under section 9 (1)  or  (2)  of the
Energy Prices Act 2022 if the disclosure is made by a person in connection
with the exercise of that person’s functions under the regulations.

;

6.d

in subsection (10), after the definition of “relevant activities” insert—

“ relevant scheme ” means— a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for
Great Britain, or a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Great Britain,
within the meaning of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (see section 1 of that Act);

.

##### Northern Ireland legislation

###### Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003

7

The Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ( S.I. 2003/419 (N.I. 6) ) is amended
as follows.

8

In Article 12 (the principal objective and general duties of the Department
and the Authority in relation to electricity), in paragraph (7), in the
definition of “electricity functions”—

8.a

for “means functions” substitute

means—

functions

;

8.b

after the third “electricity” insert

;

the functions which the Department has under section 5 (so far as relating to
electricity) and section 6 of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (see Schedule 5 to
that Act); the Authority’s function of giving directions under section 6 (3)
of the Energy Prices Act 2022; functions under regulations made under section
11 (1)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022; the power which the Department has
under section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (by virtue of paragraph
1(1)(g)  of Schedule 5 to that Act) to give a direction in connection with—
the domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland, or
regulations made under section 11(1) (so far as relating to electricity)

.

9

In Article 14 (the principal objective and general duties of the Department
and the Authority in relation to gas), in paragraph (6), in the definition of
“gas functions”—

9.a

in paragraph (a), omit “and”;

9.b

in paragraph (b), after “gas” insert

;

the functions which the Department has under section 5 (so far as relating to
gas) and section 7 of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (see Schedule 5 to that Act);
the Authority’s function of giving directions under section 7 (3)  of the
Energy Prices Act 2022; functions under regulations made under section 11 (2)
of the Energy Prices Act 2022; the power which the Department has under
section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (by virtue of paragraph  1(1)(g)  of
Schedule 5 to that Act) to give a direction in connection with— the domestic
gas price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland, or regulations made under
section 11 (2)  (so far as relating to gas)

.

10

In Article 41A (meaning of relevant requirement in relation to electricity),
in paragraph (4)—

10.a

in sub-paragraph (j), omit the third “and”;

10.b

after paragraph (k) insert—

10.b.l

section 6 (2)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022, except section 6 (2)(c)  insofar
as non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme involves the amounts
payable by or to the Secretary of State under the scheme; and

10.b.m

section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022,

.

11

In Article 41B (meaning of relevant requirement in relation to gas), in
paragraph (3)—

11.a

in sub-paragraph (i), omit the third “and”;

11.b

after paragraph (j) insert—

11.b.k

section 7 (2)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022, except section 7 (2)(c)  insofar
as non-compliance with the terms of the designated scheme involves the amounts
payable by or to the Secretary of State under the scheme; and

11.b.l

section 22 of the Energy Prices Act 2022,

.

12

In Article 63 (general restrictions on disclosure of information)—

12.a

in paragraph (1)(a)—

12.a.i

for “or Part II” substitute  “, Part II” ;

12.a.ii

after “Gas Order” insert  “, a relevant scheme or regulations made under
section 11 (1)  or  (2)  or section 16 of the Energy Prices Act 2022” ;

12.b

in paragraph (3), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.b.ba

it is required by any person in exercise of a power to require information
conferred by regulations under section 16 of the Energy Prices Act 2022;

;

12.c

after paragraph (7) insert—

12.c.7A

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a disclosure of information which has been
obtained—

12.c.7A.a

under or by virtue of a relevant scheme if it is made by a person in
connection with that person’s performance of the terms of that relevant
scheme;

12.c.7A.b

under or by virtue of regulations made under section 11 (1)  or  (2)  of the
Energy Prices Act 2022 if the disclosure is made by a person in connection
with the exercise of that person’s functions under the regulations.

;

12.d

after paragraph (10) insert—

12.d.11

In this Article “ relevant scheme ” means—

12.d.11.a

a domestic electricity price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland, or

12.d.11.b

a domestic gas price reduction scheme for Northern Ireland,

established under section 5 of the Energy Prices Act 2022.

###### The Electricity (Single Wholesale Market) (Northern Ireland) Order 2007

13

The Electricity (Single Wholesale Market) (Northern Ireland) Order 2007 ( S.I.
2007/913 (N.I. 7) ) is amended as follows.

14

In Article 6 (the Single Electricity Market Committee), in paragraph (4),
after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

14.e

the function of giving directions under section 6 (3)  of the Energy Prices
Act 2022;

14.f

a function under regulations made under section 11 (1)  of the Energy Prices
Act 2022;

.

15

In Article 9 (principal objective and duties of Department, the Authority and
SEM Committee in relation to SEM), in paragraph (8), in the definition of
“electricity functions”, after paragraph (d) insert—

functions under sections 5 and 6 of the Energy Prices Act 2022 (but only the
functions under section 5 relating to electricity); functions under
regulations made under section 11 (1)  of the Energy Prices Act 2022;

.

