Title: Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2023-07-07
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/9

## Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (Scotland) Act 2022

### Key concepts

#### Meaning of “firework” and “pyrotechnic article”

1

1.1

In this Act—

      “ firework ” means a pyrotechnic article which—         is a firework
for the purposes of the following British Standards or any British Standard
replacing them—           BS EN 15947:2015, or           BS EN 16261:2012, or
would be a firework for those purposes if it were intended as a form of
entertainment,                 “ pyrotechnic article ” means an article which
contains explosive substances or an explosive mixture of substances designed
to produce heat, light, sound, gas or smoke or a combination of such effects
through self-sustained exothermic chemical reactions.

1.2

But, for the purposes of this Act, a projectile, propelling charge or blank
ammunition used in a portable firearm, other gun or artillery is not a
pyrotechnic article.

1.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify—

1.3.a

subsection (1)  to amend or replace the definition of “firework”, or

1.3.b

subsection (2) to add, amend or remove articles or descriptions of types of
articles that are not to be treated as a pyrotechnic article for the purposes
of this Act.

1.4

Regulations under  subsection (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Categories of fireworks

2

2.1

In this Act—

      “ category F1 firework ” means a firework which presents a very low
hazard and negligible noise level and which is intended for use in confined
areas, including a firework which is intended for use inside domestic
buildings,           “ category F2 firework ” means a firework which presents
a low hazard and low noise level and which is intended for outdoor use in
confined areas,           “ category F3 firework ” means a firework which
presents a medium hazard, which is intended for outdoor use in large open
areas and whose noise level is not harmful to human health,           “
category F4 firework ” means a firework which presents a high hazard, which is
intended for use only by persons with specialist knowledge and whose noise
level is not harmful to human health.

2.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

2.2.a

modify  subsection (1)  to add, amend or remove categories, types,
classifications or descriptions of fireworks,

2.2.b

make further provision about the requirements a person must meet to
demonstrate “ specialist knowledge ” for the purposes of the definition of a
“category F4 firework”.

2.3

Regulations—

2.3.a

under subsection  (2) (a)  are subject to the affirmative procedure,

2.3.b

under  subsection (2) (b)  are subject to the negative procedure.

### Fireworks licensing

#### Fireworks which require a licence

##### Application of Part

3

3.1

This Part applies to the following fireworks—

3.1.a

category F2 fireworks, and

3.1.b

category F3 fireworks.

3.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  subsection (1)  to add,
amend or remove categories, types, classifications or descriptions of
fireworks.

3.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Fireworks licensing

##### Requirement to have fireworks licence

4

4.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to purchase,
acquire, possess or use a firework to which this Part applies without having a
fireworks licence.

4.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

4.3

It is not an offence under subsection  (1)  for a non-natural person to
purchase, acquire, possess or use a firework without having a fireworks
licence if such purchase, acquisition, possession or use is done on its behalf
by a person who has a fireworks licence.

4.4

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

##### Supply of fireworks to unlicensed persons

5

5.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to supply a firework
to which  this Part  applies to a person who does not have a fireworks
licence.

5.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

5.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
show that the person took reasonable steps to establish that the person to
whom the firework was supplied had a fireworks licence or was exempt under
schedule 1.

5.4

It is the duty of each local weights and measures authority to enforce  this
section  in its area in so far as it relates to the supply of fireworks by a
person in the course of business.

5.5

In this section, “supply” of a firework includes—

5.5.a

selling it,

5.5.b

exchanging it for a consideration other than money,

5.5.c

giving it as a prize or otherwise making a gift of it,

5.5.d

otherwise making the firework available.

5.6

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

#### Process for licensing

##### Applying for fireworks licence: general requirements

6

6.1

A person aged 18 years or over may apply to the Scottish Ministers for the
grant of a fireworks licence.

6.2

An application for a fireworks licence must—

6.2.a

comply with any regulations made under subsection  (3) , and

6.2.b

comply with the mandatory requirements in section  7 .

6.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

6.3.a

set out the form and content of the application,

6.3.b

specify the manner in which applications must be made,

6.3.c

specify the information to be provided in the application,

6.3.d

specify any supporting documents to be provided by an applicant,

6.3.e

set the fees payable (if any) and specify to whom the fees are payable, and

6.3.f

make provision for the time in which an application must be made.

6.4

Without limiting the generality of subsection  (3) (e) , when setting the fees
payable under this section the Scottish Ministers—

6.4.a

must have regard to the reasonable costs of carrying out functions under this
Part, but

6.4.b

if it is considered appropriate to do so, may charge a nominal fee or remit
the fee altogether.

6.5

Regulations under subsection  (3)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Applying for fireworks licence: mandatory requirements

7

7.1

When applying for a fireworks licence, an applicant must—

7.1.a

disclose any convictions in relation to a relevant offence,

7.1.b

disclose details of any previous fireworks licences that were revoked or
cancelled, and

7.1.c

provide evidence of having completed a fireworks training course on the safe,
lawful and appropriate use of fireworks that complies with section  8  no
earlier than 3 months before making the application.

7.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations specify additional mandatory
requirements that an applicant for a fireworks licence must meet.

7.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the negative procedure.

7.4

In this section, “ relevant offence ” means—

7.4.a

an offence under this Act,

7.4.b

an offence under—

7.4.b.i

the Fireworks Act 2003 and any regulations made under that Act,

7.4.b.ii

the Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1553 ),

7.4.b.iii

the Explosives Substances Act 1883, or

7.4.b.iv

the Explosives Act 1875,

7.4.c

wilful fire-raising or culpable and reckless fire-raising, or

7.4.d

any other offence where the misuse of fire, fireworks or pyrotechnic articles
has been a factor.

##### Fireworks training course

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision in relation to
fireworks training courses for the purposes of section  7 (1) (c) .

8.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may include provision for—

8.2.a

training requirements, such as—

8.2.a.i

the content of such courses,

8.2.a.ii

the accreditation by the Scottish Ministers of such courses and the persons
providing such courses, and

8.2.a.iii

requiring that any person providing training or any particular description of
training in accordance with the regulations holds such qualification as may be
specified in the regulations,

8.2.b

the form of such courses,

8.2.c

the minimum criteria for successful completion of such courses, and

8.2.d

how successful completion of such courses is recorded.

8.3

Any person providing a fireworks training course must have regard to any
guidance issued by the Scottish Ministers for the purposes of this section.

8.4

The Scottish Ministers must publish any such guidance (and may revise or
revoke that guidance).

8.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Grant of fireworks licence

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers may grant a fireworks licence only if—

9.1.a

a valid application and any applicable fees have been received,

9.1.b

the requirements under sections  6  and  7  have been met, and

9.1.c

they are satisfied that the applicant can be permitted to possess and use
fireworks safely, lawfully and appropriately.

9.2

If the Scottish Ministers decide to refuse to grant a fireworks licence, they
must inform the person of the right under section 14 to appeal the decision at
the same time as notifying the person of that decision.

##### Fireworks licence: conditions and further provision

10

10.1

All fireworks licences are subject to the following conditions—

10.1.a

a licence is valid only for the person named on the licence and is not
transferable,

10.1.b

a licence is valid only for the period specified on the licence, and

10.1.c

a licensed person must inform the Scottish Ministers of any change of
circumstances specified in regulations under subsection  (4) (c) .

10.2

The Scottish Ministers—

10.2.a

must attach to a fireworks licence any additional conditions specified in
regulations under subsection (4)(d)(i), and

10.2.b

may attach to a fireworks licence any optional conditions specified in
regulations under subsection (4)(d)(ii).

10.3

If the Scottish Ministers decide to attach an optional condition to a
fireworks licence, they must inform the person of the right under section 14
to appeal the decision at the same time as notifying the person of that
decision.

10.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

10.4.a

specify the form and content of a fireworks licence,

10.4.b

determine the length of time for which licences may be granted,

10.4.c

specify the changes of circumstances that a licensed person must inform the
Scottish Ministers of, and

10.4.d

make provision for any—

10.4.d.i

additional conditions that must be attached to a fireworks licence, and

10.4.d.ii

optional conditions that may be attached to a fireworks licence.

10.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Register of fireworks licence applications and licensed persons

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers must establish and maintain a register of fireworks
licence applications and licensed persons.

11.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for—

11.2.a

the details of licence applications required to be kept on the register,
including whether or not an application was granted and, if applicable, the
grounds for refusal,

11.2.b

the details about licensed persons required to be kept on the register, and

11.2.c

the length of time such details are to be kept on the register.

11.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Revocation of fireworks licence

12

12.1

The Scottish Ministers may revoke a person’s fireworks licence if—

12.1.a

the person breaches any condition of the licence, or

12.1.b

the person is convicted of a relevant offence (whether or not the convicting
court cancelled the fireworks licence under section  13 ).

12.2

A person whose fireworks licence is revoked under  this section  is prohibited
from applying for a new fireworks licence—

12.2.a

in a case where the licence was cancelled by a court under  section 13 ,
within the period specified in  section 13 (3) , or

12.2.b

in any other case, within the period of 12 months beginning with day on which
the licence was revoked.

12.3

A fireworks licence is revoked by the Scottish Ministers giving notice of the
revocation to the person who has the fireworks licence.

12.4

A notice under subsection  (3)  must—

12.4.a

be given no later than 7 days before it is to take effect, and

12.4.b

require the person to surrender—

12.4.b.i

the person’s fireworks licence, and

12.4.b.ii

any firework to which  this Part  applies in the person’s possession,

in the manner and by the date specified in the notice.

12.5

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to fail to comply
with the requirements of a notice given under subsection  (3) .

12.6

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (5)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

12.7

If the Scottish Ministers decide to revoke a fireworks licence, they must
inform the person of the right under section 14 to appeal the decision at the
same time as notifying the person of that decision.

12.8

If a person appeals under section  14  against a decision to revoke the
person’s fireworks licence—

12.8.a

the revocation does not take effect, but

12.8.b

the person must still comply with the requirements of the notice given under
subsection  (3) ,

pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.

12.9

In  this section , “ relevant offence ” has the meaning given in section  7
(4) .

##### Notification of convictions and cancellation of fireworks licence

13

13.1

This section applies if a person who has a fireworks licence is convicted of a
relevant offence.

13.2

The court may cancel the person’s fireworks licence.

13.3

A person whose fireworks licence is cancelled under this section is prohibited
from applying for a new fireworks licence within the period of 12 months
beginning with the day on which the licence was cancelled.

13.4

If the court cancels the person’s fireworks licence, it—

13.4.a

must notify the Scottish Ministers of the cancellation, and

13.4.b

may make an order for forfeiture under section  48 .

13.5

If the court does not cancel the person’s fireworks licence, it must notify
the Scottish Ministers of the conviction.

13.6

In this section, “ relevant offence ” has the meaning given in section  7 (4)
.

##### Appeals

14

14.1

A person may appeal to the appropriate sheriff against a decision of the
Scottish Ministers—

14.1.a

to refuse to grant the person a fireworks licence under section  9 ,

14.1.b

to attach an optional condition to the person’s fireworks licence under
section  10 (2) (b), or

14.1.c

to revoke the person’s fireworks licence under section  12 (1) .

14.2

An appeal must be made within the period of 21 days beginning with the day on
which the decision appealed against was made.

14.3

An appeal under this section is to be determined on the merits (and not by way
of review).

14.4

The sheriff hearing the appeal may consider any evidence or other matter,
whether or not it was available at the time the Scottish Ministers made the
decision being appealed against.

14.5

On determining the appeal, the sheriff may—

14.5.a

dismiss the appeal,

14.5.b

give the Scottish Ministers such direction as the sheriff considers
appropriate in respect of the decision that is the subject of the appeal.

14.6

The determination of the sheriff may be appealed against only on a point of
law.

14.7

In this section, “ the appropriate sheriff ” means—

14.7.a

in a case where the appellant resides in Scotland, a sheriff of the sheriffdom
in which the appellant resides, or

14.7.b

in a case where the appellant resides outwith Scotland, a sheriff of the
sheriffdom of Lothian and Borders, sitting at Edinburgh.

#### Offences relating to fireworks licence applications

##### False statements

15

15.1

It is an offence for a person to knowingly or recklessly make any statement
which is false in any material particular for the purposes of obtaining a
fireworks licence.

15.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### False or altered licences and documents

16

16.1

It is an offence for a person to produce a false fireworks licence or other
false document purporting to prove an exemption under  schedule 1 .

16.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

#### General

##### Power of Scottish Ministers to make arrangements for certain functions

17

17.1

The Scottish Ministers may make arrangements for a person to perform some or
all of their functions under this Part.

17.2

Subsection  (1)  does not include any power of the Scottish Ministers to make
regulations under this Part.

17.3

The making of arrangements under this section to perform a function does not—

17.3.a

affect the Scottish Ministers’ responsibility for the performance of the
function, or

17.3.b

prevent the Scottish Ministers from performing the function.

##### Power to make further provision

18

18.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make further provision for the
purposes of this Part.

18.2

Without limiting the generality of subsection  (1) , regulations under that
subsection may make provision—

18.2.a

about the verification of applications and supporting documents,

18.2.b

about the sharing of information (for example, in connection with the
verification of applications or the enforcement of this Part).

18.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

##### Regulations: consultation

19

19.1

Before making any regulations under this Part, the Scottish Ministers must
consult such persons as they consider are likely to be interested in or
affected by the licensing of fireworks.

19.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to regulations under section  3 .

### Restrictions on supply and use of fireworks and pyrotechnic articles

#### Application of Part

##### Application of Part

20

20.1

In this Part—

20.1.a

section  21  applies to all pyrotechnic articles other than—

20.1.a.i

category F1 fireworks, and

20.1.a.ii

percussion caps for toys that are intended for use by children under the age
of 14,

20.1.b

section  22  applies to—

20.1.b.i

category F2 fireworks, and

20.1.b.ii

category F3 fireworks, and

20.1.c

section  24  applies to—

20.1.c.i

category F2 fireworks, and

20.1.c.ii

category F3 fireworks.

20.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

20.2.a

modify subsection  (1) (a)  to add, amend or remove categories, types,
classifications or descriptions of fireworks or pyrotechnic articles, and

20.2.b

modify subsection  (1) (b)  or  (c)  to add, amend or remove categories,
types, classifications or descriptions of fireworks.

20.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Prohibition on supply to children

##### Prohibition on providing fireworks or pyrotechnic articles to children

21

21.1

It is an offence for a person to knowingly—

21.1.a

buy or attempt to buy a firework or other pyrotechnic article to which this
section applies for a person under the age of 18, or

21.1.b

give or otherwise make available a firework or other pyrotechnic article to
which this section applies to a person under the age of 18.

21.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

21.3

It is not an offence under subsection  (1)  for a person to buy or attempt to
buy a pyrotechnic article for, or give or otherwise make one available to, a
person under the age of 18 if—

21.3.a

the manufacturer of the pyrotechnic article designed it to be used as a visual
distress signal, and

21.3.b

the person intends that the person under the age of 18 will use the
pyrotechnic article only in appropriate circumstances.

21.4

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

#### Days of supply and use of fireworks

##### Restriction on days of supply of fireworks

22

22.1

It is an offence for a person to supply fireworks to which this section
applies on days other than those specified in subsection  (3) .

22.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

22.3

The supply of fireworks to which this section applies is permitted only
between the following days (inclusive of the first and last day specified)—

22.3.a

7 April to 14 April,

22.3.b

27 October to 10 November,

22.3.c

26 December to 31 December,

22.3.d

the first day of Chinese New Year and the 3 days immediately preceding it,

22.3.e

the first day of Diwali and the 3 days immediately preceding it.

22.4

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
show that the person took reasonable steps to establish that the person to
whom the fireworks were supplied was exempt under  schedule 1 .

22.5

It is the duty of each local weights and measures authority to enforce this
section in its area.

22.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection  (3)  to add,
amend or remove a day or a period of days.

22.7

Regulations under subsection  (6)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

22.8

In this section, “supply” of fireworks includes—

22.8.a

selling them,

22.8.b

exchanging them for any consideration other than money, and

22.8.c

giving them as a prize or otherwise making a gift of them,

but does not include supplying them otherwise than in the course of a
business.

22.9

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

##### Alignment of days when licence required to supply 

23

23.1

The Fireworks Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/1836 ) are modified as follows.

23.2

Regulation 9(2) has effect as if for the days and periods specified in
paragraphs (a) to (d) of that regulation (being the days on which certain
fireworks may be supplied or exposed for supply without requiring a licence
granted under regulation 9(1)), there are substituted the days and periods
specified in section 22(3) of this Act.

23.3

The modification in subsection (2) applies only in relation to—

23.3.a

category F2 fireworks, and

23.3.b

category F3 fireworks.

##### Restriction on days of use of fireworks

24

24.1

It is an offence for a person to use fireworks to which this section applies
on days other than those specified in subsection  (3) .

24.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

24.3

The use of fireworks to which this section applies is permitted only between
the following days (inclusive of the first and last day specified)—

24.3.a

7 April to 16 April,

24.3.b

27 October to 12 November,

24.3.c

26 December to 2 January,

24.3.d

the 3 days immediately preceding the first day of Chinese New Year to the
seventh day after the first day of Chinese New Year,

24.3.e

the 3 days immediately preceding the first day of Diwali to the seventh day
after the first day of Diwali.

24.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection  (3)  to add,
amend or remove a day or a period of days.

24.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

24.6

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

#### Compensation

##### Compensation for specialist firework businesses affected by 

25

25.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for or about the
payment of compensation to relevant persons in consequence of—

25.1.a

the coming into force of  section 22 , or

25.1.b

the coming into force of a modification under  section 22 (6)  which further
limits the days on which fireworks may be supplied.

25.2

In  subsection (1) , a “relevant person” is a person whose trade or business
was wholly or mainly concerned with the supply, distribution or importation of
fireworks in Scotland immediately before the coming into force of  section 22
or a modification of the kind described in  subsection (1) (b) .

25.3

Without limiting the generality of  subsection (1) , regulations under that
subsection may—

25.3.a

make further provision about who qualifies as a relevant person,

25.3.b

set out the circumstances in which compensation is payable,

25.3.c

make provision about the calculation of compensation,

25.3.d

set out the procedure to be followed in connection with claiming compensation,

25.3.e

provide for the review of decisions made under the regulations, and

25.3.f

make provision about appeals against decisions made under the regulations.

25.4

Regulations under  this section  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

### Firework control zones

#### Application of Part

26

26.1

This Part  applies to—

26.1.a

category F2 fireworks,

26.1.b

category F3 fireworks, and

26.1.c

category F4 fireworks.

26.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify  subsection (1)  to add,
amend or remove categories, types, classifications or descriptions of
fireworks.

26.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Firework control zones

27

27.1

At any time, a local authority may (in accordance with  this Part )—

27.1.a

designate a place within its area as a firework control zone,

27.1.b

amend a zone (including the period for which it is to have effect or days on
which it is to operate), or

27.1.c

revoke a zone.

27.2

It is an offence for a person to—

27.2.a

ignite a firework to which  this Part  applies in a firework control zone, or

27.2.b

knowingly or recklessly—

27.2.b.i

throw or cast a lit firework to which  this Part  applies into a firework
control zone, or

27.2.b.ii

fire a firework to which  this Part  applies into a firework control zone.

27.3

A firework control zone operates and the offence in  subsection (2)  applies
on all days that the zone has effect unless the designation specifies
particular days on which the zone is to operate, in which case the offence
applies on those days only.

27.4

A person who commits an offence under subsection  (2)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

27.5

This section  is subject to  section 38  and  schedule 1  (exemptions).

#### Prior consultation on proposals 

28

28.1

Before designating a place as a firework control zone or amending or revoking
a zone, a local authority must—

28.1.a

prepare and publish its proposal in relation to the designation, amendment or
revocation of the zone, and

28.1.b

consult—

28.1.b.i

persons who live or work in the place which will be affected by the proposal,

28.1.b.ii

other members of the local community in or near the place,

28.1.b.iii

any other persons or bodies that the local authority considers to have a
connection with, be interested in or affected by the proposal.

28.2

The proposal must, in particular, set out—

28.2.a

the reasons for the proposed designation of a place as a firework control
zone, or, as the case may be, the amendment or revocation of a zone,

28.2.b

the boundaries of the zone,

28.2.c

the date from which the proposal is to have effect and the date on which it is
proposed that the zone is to cease to have effect,

28.2.d

the consultation dates, and

28.2.e

how the consultation is to be conducted.

28.3

The proposal may set out specific days on which the zone is to operate for the
purpose of  section 27 (3) .

#### Publication of decision on proposal

29

29.1

Following a consultation on a proposal published under  section 28 (1) , a
local authority must publish a document which—

29.1.a

confirms whether or not it is proceeding with the proposal,

29.1.b

sets out any changes to the proposal which have been made (whether or not as a
result of the consultation), and

29.1.c

explains how it had regard to the views expressed during the consultation
process.

29.2

The local authority must publish the document—

29.2.a

as soon as practicable after the decision in relation to the proposal is made,
and

29.2.b

where a decision has been made to proceed with the proposal, at least 60 days
before the day on which the proposal is to have effect.

#### Publicising firework control zones

30

As soon as practicable after a document is published under section 29
confirming that a proposal is proceeding, the local authority must take
reasonable steps to inform the persons mentioned in section 28(1)(b) of—

30.a

the date any decision to designate a place as a firework control zone or amend
or revoke a zone is to have effect (and, if different, the days on which it is
to operate),

30.b

the boundaries of the zone (or any changes to those boundaries),

30.c

what is permissible within a zone, the exemptions that apply and the
consequences of failure to comply,

30.d

such other information as the Scottish Ministers may specify in regulations
made under section 32.

#### Review of operation and effectiveness 

31

31.1

A local authority must carry out reviews of the operation and effectiveness of
its firework control zones.

31.2

A review under this section may—

31.2.a

be in respect of one or more firework control zones, and

31.2.b

be combined with a proposal under  section 28  to amend or revoke a zone.

31.3

On completion of a review, the local authority must—

31.3.a

prepare and publish a report of the review's findings, and

31.3.b

make such proposals in relation to the zone (or zones) as it considers
appropriate.

31.4

Regulations made under  section 32  may specify a minimum frequency for
reviews under this section.

#### Power to make further provision

32

32.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make further provision about
firework control zones and the procedures to be followed to designate a place
as a zone, or to amend or revoke one.

32.2

Without limiting the generality of  subsection (1) , regulations under that
subsection may—

32.2.a

set limits on—

32.2.a.i

the size of place that may be designated a firework control zone,

32.2.a.ii

the cumulative area that a local authority may designate as such zones,

32.2.b

specify the manner in which a local authority is to designate a place as a
zone, or to amend or revoke one,

32.2.c

specify information that must be included when designating a place as a zone,
or amending or revoking one,

32.2.d

make further provision in relation to zones that operate on specific days
only,

32.2.e

make further provision relating to the consultation process,

32.2.f

make provision relating to the publication of documents required under  this
Part ,

32.2.g

make further provision in relation to the reviewing and reporting on the
operation and effectiveness of zones in its area.

32.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Guidance

33

33.1

Local authorities must have regard to any guidance issued by the Scottish
Ministers for the purposes of  this Part .

33.2

The Scottish Ministers must publish any such guidance (and may revise or
revoke that guidance).

### Pyrotechnic articles in public places and at designated venues and events

#### Application of Part

34

34.1

In this Part—

34.1.a

section 35 applies to all pyrotechnic articles except category F1 fireworks,
and

34.1.b

section 36 applies to all pyrotechnic articles.

34.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection (1) to add, amend
or remove categories, types, classifications or descriptions of fireworks or
pyrotechnic articles.

34.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Prohibition of pyrotechnic articles in public places

35

35.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to possess a
pyrotechnic article to which this section applies in a public place.

35.2

A person who commits an offence under subsection (1) is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

35.3

It is not an offence under subsection (1) for a person to possess a
pyrotechnic article if the possession of the pyrotechnic article—

35.3.a

is in connection with the person’s employment, or

35.3.b

is in connection with the person undertaking an activity where it is
appropriate to possess the article for use as a visual distress signal.

35.4

In this section, “ public place ” means any place other than premises occupied
as a private dwelling (including any stair, passage, garden, yard, garage,
outhouse or other appurtenance of such premises which is not used in common by
the occupants of more than one such dwelling).

35.5

This section—

35.5.a

does not apply to a designated venue or a place where a designated event is
occurring (see section 36), and

35.5.b

is also subject to section 38 and schedule 1 (exemptions).

#### Prohibition of pyrotechnic articles at designated venues or events

36

36.1

It is an offence for a person, without reasonable excuse, to possess a
pyrotechnic article to which this section applies while the person is in a
designated venue or while at a designated event.

36.2

A person convicted of an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

36.3

In this section, “designated venue” or “ designated event ” means a venue or,
as the case may be, event designated by the Scottish Ministers under section
37.

36.4

This section is subject to section  38  and schedule  1  (exemptions).

#### Designation of venues or events

37

37.1

For the purposes of section 36, the Scottish Ministers may by regulations
designate—

37.1.a

a sports ground or class of sports grounds (whether or not the grounds are
used for sporting events),

37.1.b

a sporting event or class of sporting events (whether or not attendees have
paid to attend),

37.1.c

a venue that is to be used for a music event, including any place that is to
be used by a person responsible for the organisation of a music event for the
purpose of—

37.1.c.i

regulating entry to, or departure from, the event, or

37.1.c.ii

providing accommodation or other facilities for those attending the event,

37.1.d

a music event or class of music events (whether or not attendees have paid to
attend).

37.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are subject to the negative procedure.

### Exemptions, enforcement and other matters

#### Exemptions

##### Exemptions from offences in Act

38

38.1

Schedule 1  contains exemptions to certain offences under Parts  2  to  5 .

38.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

38.2.a

modify schedule  1  to add, amend or remove exemptions,

38.2.b

make further provision about the requirements that a person must meet to be
treated as being employed by, or in business as, a professional organiser or
operator of fireworks displays or pyrotechnics displays for the purposes of
schedule  1 .

38.3

Regulations under subsection (2) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Powers of local weights and measures authorities

##### Powers of local weights and measures authorities

39

Schedule 2  makes provision about the powers of a local weights and measures
authority (and its officers) to enforce the offences under  sections 5  and
22  in its area and related matters.

#### Powers of constables

##### Power of entry etc. with warrant 

40

40.1

A sheriff or justice of the peace may grant a warrant under this section
authorising a constable to enter premises if the sheriff or justice of the
peace is satisfied, by evidence on oath, that there are reasonable grounds for
suspecting—

40.1.a

that an offence under this Act has been, or is being, committed at the
premises, or

40.1.b

that there is evidence at the premises of the commission of an offence under
this Act.

40.2

A warrant granted under this section remains in force for a period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which it was granted.

40.3

A warrant granted under this section may authorise a constable to—

40.3.a

enter the premises by force if necessary,

40.3.b

search the premises and any person found in the premises,

40.3.c

seize and retain any item or material found on the premises, or on any person
in the premises, if the constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that
it may provide evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act.

40.4

A constable who is authorised by a warrant granted under this section to seize
and detain material may, if the material is only capable of being looked at,
read, watched or listened to (as the case may be) after conversion from data
stored in another form, require that the material—

40.4.a

be converted into such a form in a way which enables it to be taken away, or

40.4.b

be produced in a form which is capable of being taken away and from which it
can be readily converted.

40.5

In this section, “ premises ” includes any—

40.5.a

land or building,

40.5.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

40.5.c

tent or moveable structure,

(whether or not the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling).

##### Search for fireworks or pyrotechnic articles without warrant

41

41.1

If a constable has reasonable grounds for suspecting that a person has
committed or is committing an offence under this Act, the constable may—

41.1.a

search that person without warrant, and detain the person for such time as is
reasonably required to permit the search to be carried out,

41.1.b

stop and search a vehicle (and anything on or in it) without warrant,

41.1.c

seize and retain any item found in the course of a search which may be
relevant to the commission of the offence.

41.2

A constable who detains a person under  subsection (1)  must give the person
the reason for the detention.

#### Offences in relation to enforcement

##### Offence of obstructing officer of a local weights and measures authority

42

42.1

It is an offence for a person to—

42.1.a

intentionally obstruct an officer of a local weights and measures authority
who is exercising powers conferred by  schedule 2,

42.1.b

intentionally fail to comply with any requirement made of the person by an
officer of a local weights and measures authority under paragraph 7 or 10 of
schedule 2 ,

42.1.c

fail, without reasonable cause, to give an officer of a local weights and
measures authority any other assistance or information which the officer may
reasonably require of him for the purposes of the exercise of the officer's
powers under  schedule 2 .

42.2

It is an offence for a person, in giving any information which is required of
the person by virtue of  subsection (1) (c) —

42.2.a

to make any statement which the person knows is false in a material
particular, or

42.2.b

recklessly to make a statement which is false in a material particular.

42.3

A person who commits an offence under  this section  is liable, on summary
conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (or both).

##### Offence of impersonating officer of a local weights and measures authority

43

43.1

It is an offence for a person who is not an officer of a local weights and
measures authority to purport to act as such an officer in the exercise of
powers under  schedule 2 .

43.2

A person who commits an offence under  subsection (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale.

#### Aggravation of offences against emergency workers

##### Aggravation of offences against emergency workers

44

44.1

An offence is aggravated by the use of a firework or pyrotechnic article if—

44.1.a

the offence is committed in a manner that involves the use of a firework or
pyrotechnic article which is currently lit or ignited (or which has recently
been lit or ignited), and

44.1.b

a victim (or intended victim) of the offence is an emergency worker.

44.2

For the purpose of subsection (1), an emergency worker is—

44.2.a

a person—

44.2.a.i

acting in a capacity mentioned in section 1(3) or 2(3) of the Emergency
Workers (Scotland) Act 2005,

44.2.a.ii

acting in a capacity mentioned in section 90(3)(a), (c) or (d) of the Police
and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012,

44.2.a.iii

who is a constable of the British Transport Police Force and is acting in that
capacity,

44.2.b

a person who is assisting such a person in responding to an emergency
circumstance.

44.3

Evidence from a single source is sufficient to prove that an offence is
aggravated by the use of a firework or pyrotechnic article.

44.4

Subsection (5) applies where it is—

44.4.a

libelled in an indictment, or specified in a complaint, that an offence is
aggravated by the use of a firework or pyrotechnic article, and

44.4.b

proved that the offence is so aggravated.

44.5

The court must—

44.5.a

state on conviction that the offence is aggravated by the use of a firework or
pyrotechnic article,

44.5.b

record the conviction in a way that shows that the offence is so aggravated,

44.5.c

take the aggravation into account in determining the appropriate sentence, and

44.5.d

state—

44.5.d.i

where the sentence in respect of the offence is different from that which the
court would have imposed if the offence were not so aggravated, the extent of
and the reasons for that difference, or

44.5.d.ii

otherwise, the reasons for there being no such difference.

44.6

For the purposes of this section, a person is responding to emergency
circumstances if the person—

44.6.a

is going anywhere for the purpose of dealing with emergency circumstances
occurring there, or

44.6.b

is dealing with emergency circumstances or preparing to do so.

44.7

For the purposes of this section, circumstances are “emergency” circumstances
if they are present or imminent and—

44.7.a

are causing or are likely to cause—

44.7.a.i

serious injury to or the serious illness (including mental illness) of a
person,

44.7.a.ii

serious harm to the environment (including the life and health of plants and
animals and the fabric of buildings), or

44.7.a.iii

a worsening of any such injury, illness or harm, or

44.7.b

are likely to cause the death of a person.

44.8

For the purposes of this section, circumstances to which a person is
responding are to be taken to be emergency circumstances if the person
believes and has reasonable grounds for believing they are or may be emergency
circumstances.

#### Miscellaneous

##### Time limit for prosecution of offences

45

Summary proceedings for an offence under this Act may be commenced at any time
within the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the offence was
committed.

##### Presumptions in proceedings under this Act

46

46.1

This section applies for the purposes of a trial in proceedings for an alleged
offence under this Act.

46.2

Where an item—

46.2.a

is labelled as a firework or other pyrotechnic article, or

46.2.b

is not so labelled but is found within a container which is labelled as
containing fireworks or other pyrotechnic articles,

the item is presumed to be a firework or pyrotechnic article as described on
the label or, as the case may be, container.

46.3

At the trial, a party to the proceedings may rebut the presumption mentioned
in subsection (2) by proving that, at the time the offence is alleged to have
been committed, the item was not a firework or other pyrotechnic article of
the description on the item or the container.

46.4

A party may lead evidence for the purpose of rebutting the presumption only if
the party has given notice of the intention to do so to the other parties—

46.4.a

not less than 7 days before the intermediate diet, or

46.4.b

if there is no intermediate diet, not less than 28 days before the date of the
trial.

##### Certificates as to proof of certain matters

47

47.1

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

47.2

In the table in schedule 9 (certificates as to proof of certain routine
matters), at the end insert—

        The Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles (Scotland) Act 2022.
Sections 4(1) and 5(1)         A person authorised to do so by the Scottish
Ministers         In relation to a person identified in the certificate, that
on the date specified in the certificate the person had, or as the case may
be, did not have, a fireworks licence (within the meaning of Part 2 of that
Act).         Sections 4(1), 5(1), 21(1), 22(1), 24(1) and 27(2)         A
person authorised to do so by the Scottish Ministers         That the
particular item identified in the certificate is—       a     a firework
within the meaning of section 1(1) of that Act, and         b     of such
category of firework (construed in accordance with section 2(1) of that Act)
as is specified in the certificate.           Sections 21(1), 35(1) and 36(1)
A person authorised to do so by the Scottish Ministers          That the
particular item identified in the certificate is a pyrotechnic article within
the meaning of section 1(1) and (2) of that Act.

.

##### Forfeiture and disposal of fireworks and pyrotechnic articles

48

48.1

This section  applies where—

48.1.a

the Scottish Ministers revoke a person’s licence by giving notice under
section 12 (3) ,

48.1.b

a court convicts a person of an offence under this Act, or

48.1.c

a court cancels a person’s fireworks licence under  section 13 (2) .

48.2

Subsection (3)  applies where—

48.2.a

a firework to which  Part 2  applies is surrendered in pursuance of a notice
given under  section 12 (3)  which revokes a person’s fireworks licence, and

48.2.b

the person appeals against the decision to revoke the person’s fireworks
licence (and does not withdraw that appeal prior to its determination).

48.3

Where  this subsection  applies—

48.3.a

if the appeal is successful, the firework must be returned,

48.3.b

if the appeal is unsuccessful, the sheriff may make such order for the
disposal of the firework as the sheriff considers appropriate.

48.4

Subsection (5)  applies where—

48.4.a

a firework to which  Part 2  applies is surrendered in pursuance of a notice
given under  section 12 (3)  which revokes a person’s fireworks licence, and

48.4.b

the person—

48.4.b.i

does not appeal against the decision to revoke the person’s fireworks licence,
or

48.4.b.ii

makes and subsequently withdraws an appeal against such a decision.

48.5

Where  this subsection  applies, the firework is to be disposed of in such
manner as the chief constable considers appropriate.

48.6

The court by which a person is convicted or, as the case may be, which cancels
a person’s fireworks licence may make an order for the forfeiture or disposal
of any firework or pyrotechnic article—

48.6.a

to which the offence relates, or

48.6.b

which is possessed by the person.

48.7

A constable may seize and retain a firework or pyrotechnic article which may
be the subject of an order for forfeiture under  this section .

48.8

Where a court orders the disposal of a firework or pyrotechnic article seized
and retained under this Act by a constable or an officer of a local weights
and measures authority, the firework or pyrotechnic article may be disposed of
in such manner as the chief constable or, as the case may be, the local
weights and measures authority considers appropriate.

##### Individual culpability for offending by an organisation

49

49.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

49.1.a

an offence under this Act is committed by a relevant organisation, and

49.1.b

the commission of the offence involves the connivance or consent of, or is
attributable to the neglect of—

49.1.b.i

a responsible official of the organisation, or

49.1.b.ii

an individual purporting to act in the capacity of a responsible official.

49.2

The responsible official (or, as the case may be, the individual purporting to
act in that capacity), as well as the organisation, commits the offence.

49.3

“ Relevant organisation ” means—

49.3.a

a company,

49.3.b

a partnership (including a limited liability partnership),

49.3.c

another body or association.

49.4

“ Responsible official ” means—

49.4.a

in the case of a company—

49.4.a.i

a director, secretary, manager or similar officer, or

49.4.a.ii

where the affairs of the company are managed by its members, a member,

49.4.b

in the case of a limited liability partnership, a member,

49.4.c

in the case of a partnership other than a limited liability partnership, a
partner,

49.4.d

in the case of another body or association, a person who is concerned in the
management or control of its affairs.

### General provisions

#### Report on operation of Act

50

50.1

The Scottish Ministers must, as soon as practicable after the end of the
reporting period, lay before the Scottish Parliament a report on the operation
of this Act during the reporting period.

50.2

The report must, in particular, include information about—

50.2.a

proceedings and convictions in respect of relevant offences during the
reporting period,

50.2.b

the number of incidents connected to fireworks and other pyrotechnic articles
which occurred during the reporting period, and

50.2.c

the views and experiences of persons in relation to the use of fireworks in
their communities during the relevant period.

50.3

The reporting period is the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which
this Act receives Royal Assent.

50.4

In this section, “ relevant offence ” means an offence under this Act or
listed in section 7(4)(b) and (c).

#### Interpretation

51

In this Act—

      “ chief constable ” means the chief constable of the Police Service of
Scotland,           “ constable ” has the same meaning as in section 99(1) of
the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act 2012,           “ firework control
zone ”, in relation to the area of a local authority, means a place within the
area which has been designated as a firework control zone by the local
authority under section 27(1) (and a reference to such a zone includes a zone
as it has been amended),           “ fireworks licence ” means a fireworks
licence granted by the Scottish Ministers under section  9 ,           “
licensed person ” means a person who has a fireworks licence (and a reference
to an unlicensed person is to be construed accordingly),           “ public
fireworks display ” means a fireworks display at which the public, or any
section of the public, are present (whether or not they have paid to be) that
complies with regulations made under section 6 of the Fireworks Act 2003 (if
any),           “ regulatory authority ” means—         the Chief Constable of
the Police Service of Scotland,           the Health and Safety Executive,
a local authority,           a local weights and measures authority.

#### Regulations

52

Any power of the Scottish Ministers to make regulations under this Act, other
than section  56 , includes power to make—

52.a

different provision for different purposes,

52.b

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

#### Ancillary provision

53

53.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

53.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

53.3

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

53.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act (including this Act), but

53.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Crown application: criminal offences

54

54.1

No contravention of any provision made by this Act makes the Crown criminally
liable.

54.2

But the Court of Session may, on the application of the Lord Advocate, declare
unlawful any act or omission of the Crown which constitutes such a
contravention.

54.3

Despite subsection  (1) , any provision made by or under this Act applies to a
person in the public service of the Crown as it applies to other persons.

#### Crown application: powers of entry

55

55.1

A warrant granted under  section 40  or  schedule 2  is exercisable in
relation to Crown land specified in column 1 of the following table only with
the consent of the person specified in the corresponding entry in column 2 of
the table (the “appropriate authority”).

        Crown land         Appropriate authority           Land an interest in
which belongs to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and which forms part of the
Crown Estate (that is, the property, rights and interests under the management
of the Crown Estate Commissioners)         The Crown Estate Commissioners
Land an interest in which belongs to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and
which forms part of the Scottish Crown Estate         The person managing the
land         Land an interest in which belongs to Her Majesty in right of the
Crown other than land forming part of the Crown Estate or the Scottish Crown
Estate         The office-holder in the Scottish Administration or, as the
case may be, the Government department managing the land         Land an
interest in which belongs to Her Majesty in right of Her private estates
The person appointed by Her Majesty in writing under the Royal Sign Manual or,
if no such appointment is made, the Scottish Ministers         Land an
interest in which belongs to an office-holder in the Scottish Administration
The office-holder in the Scottish Administration         Land an interest in
which belongs to a Government department         The Government department
Land an interest in which is held in trust for Her Majesty by an office-holder
in the Scottish Administration for the purposes of the Scottish Administration
The office-holder in the Scottish Administration         Land an interest in
which is held in trust for Her Majesty for the purposes of a Government
department         The Government department

55.2

In  subsection (1) —

55.2.a

the reference to Her Majesty's private estates is to be construed in
accordance with section 1 of the Crown Private Estates Act 1862,

55.2.b

“ Government department ” means a department of the Government of the United
Kingdom,

55.2.c

“ Scottish Crown Estate ” means the property, rights and interests to which
section 90B(5) of the Scotland Act 1998 applies.

55.3

It is for the Scottish Ministers to determine any question that arises as to
who in accordance with  subsection (1)  is the appropriate authority in
relation to any land, and their decision is final.

#### Commencement

56

56.1

This section and sections 50,  51 ,  52 ,  53  and  57  come into force on the
day after Royal Assent.

56.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

56.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may—

56.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

56.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

57

The short title of this Act is the Fireworks and Pyrotechnic Articles
(Scotland) Act 2022.

Exemptions

(introduced by section   38 )

##### Regulatory authorities or those acting under the direction of a regulatory authority

1

It is not an offence under  section 4 (1)  (requirement to have fireworks
licence) for a person to purchase, acquire, possess or use a firework without
having a fireworks licence if the person is employed by a regulatory authority
(and is acting in that capacity).

2

It is not an offence under  section 4 (1)  for a person to purchase, acquire,
possess or use a firework without having a fireworks licence if the person is
acting under the direction of a regulatory authority.

3

It is not an offence under section  5 (1)  (supply of fireworks to unlicensed
persons) for a person to give or otherwise make available a firework to a
person who does not have a fireworks licence if—

3.a

the person giving or otherwise making available the firework is employed by,
or acting under the direction of, a regulatory authority (and is acting in
that capacity), and

3.b

the unlicensed person is employed by, or acting under the direction of, a
regulatory authority (and is acting in that capacity).

4

It is not an offence under section  24 (1)  (restriction on days of use of
fireworks) for a person to use a firework contrary to section  24 (3)  if—

4.a

the person is employed by, or acting under the direction of, a regulatory
authority, and

4.b

the firework is used in connection with the regulatory authority’s functions.

5

It is not an offence under section  27 (2) (a)  (firework control zones) for a
person to ignite a firework in a firework control zone if—

5.a

the person is employed by, or acting under the direction of, a regulatory
authority, and

5.b

the firework is used in connection with the regulatory authority’s functions.

6

It is not an offence under section  36 (1)  (prohibition of pyrotechnic
articles at designated venues or events) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic
article in a designated venue or while at a designated event if the person is
employed by a regulatory authority (and is acting in that capacity).

##### Professional organisers or operators of fireworks displays or pyrotechnics displays

7

It is not an offence under  section 4 (1)  (requirement to have fireworks
licence) for a person to purchase, acquire, possess or use a firework without
having a fireworks licence if—

7.a

the person is employed by, or in business as, a professional organiser or
operator of fireworks displays, and

7.b

the firework is purchased, acquired, possessed or used in connection with that
business.

8

It is not an offence under  section 5 (1)  (supply of fireworks to unlicensed
persons) for a person to supply a firework to a person who does not have a
fireworks licence if the unlicensed person is employed by, or in business as,
a professional organiser or operator of fireworks displays.

9

It is not an offence under section  21 (1)  (prohibition on providing
fireworks or pyrotechnic articles to children) for a person to give or
otherwise make available a firework or pyrotechnic article to a person under
the age of 18 if—

9.a

the person under the age of 18 is employed by, or in business as, a
professional organiser or operator of fireworks displays or pyrotechnic
displays, and

9.b

the firework is given or made available for the purposes of putting on a
fireworks display or pyrotechnics display for the person’s employer or in the
course of the person’s business (as the case may be).

##### 

9

It is not an offence under section  21 (1)  (prohibition on providing
fireworks or pyrotechnic articles to children) for a person to give or
otherwise make available a firework or pyrotechnic article to a person under
the age of 18 if—

9.a

the person under the age of 18 is employed by, or in business as, a
professional organiser or operator of fireworks displays or pyrotechnic
displays, and

9.b

the firework is given or made available for the purposes of putting on a
fireworks display or pyrotechnics display for the person’s employer or in the
course of the person’s business (as the case may be).

##### 

10

It is not an offence under section  22 (1)  (restriction on days of supply of
fireworks) for a person to supply a firework contrary to section  22 (3)  if
the firework is supplied to a person who is employed by, or in business as, a
professional organiser or operator of fireworks displays.

11

It is not an offence under section  24 (1)  (restriction on days of use of
fireworks) for a person to use a firework contrary to section  24 (3)  if—

11.a

the person is employed by, or in business as, a professional organiser or
operator of fireworks displays, and

11.b

the firework is used for the purposes of putting on a fireworks display for
the person’s employer or in the course of the person’s business (as the case
may be).

12

It is not an offence under section  27 (2) (a)  (firework control zones) for a
person to ignite a firework in a firework control zone if—

12.a

the person is employed by, or in business as, a professional organiser or
operator of fireworks displays, and

12.b

the firework is used for the purposes of putting on a public fireworks display
for the person’s employer or in the course of the person’s business (as the
case may be).

13

It is not an offence under section  36 (1)  (prohibition of pyrotechnic
articles at designated venues or events) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic
article in a designated venue or while at a designated event if—

13.a

the person is employed by, or in business as, a professional organiser or
operator of firework displays or pyrotechnics displays, and

13.b

the pyrotechnic article is possessed in connection with that business.

##### Business or supply in accordance with Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015 

14

It is not an offence under  section 4 (1)  (requirement to have fireworks
licence) for a person to purchase, acquire, possess or use a firework without
having a fireworks licence if—

14.a

the person is employed by a business engaged in, or whose trade or business
(or part of whose trade or business) is, the manufacture, importation,
distribution or supply of fireworks in accordance with the provisions of the
Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/1553 ), and

14.b

the firework is purchased, acquired, possessed or used for purposes which are
necessary in connection with that trade or business.

15

It is not an offence under  section 5 (1)  (supply of fireworks to unlicensed
persons) for a person to supply a firework to a person who does not have a
fireworks licence if the unlicensed person is employed by a business engaged
in, or whose trade or business (or part of whose trade or business) is, the
manufacture, importation, distribution or supply of fireworks in accordance
with the provisions of the Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015.

16

It is not an offence under section  22 (1)  (restriction on days of supply of
fireworks) for a person to supply a firework contrary to section  22 (3)  if
the firework is supplied to a person who is employed by a business engaged in,
or whose trade or business (or part of whose trade or business) is, the supply
of fireworks in accordance with the provisions of the Pyrotechnic Articles
(Safety) Regulations 2015.

17

It is not an offence under section  24 (1)  (restriction on days of use of
fireworks) for a person to use a firework contrary to section  24 (3)  if—

17.a

the person is employed by a business engaged in, or whose trade or business
(or part of whose trade or business) is, the manufacture, importation,
distribution or supply of fireworks in accordance with the provisions of the
Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015, and

17.b

the firework is used for purposes which are necessary in connection with that
trade or business.

18

It is not an offence under section  27 (2) (a)  (firework control zones) for a
person to ignite a firework in a firework control zone if—

18.a

the person is employed by a business engaged in, or whose trade or business
(or part of whose trade or business) is, the manufacture, importation,
distribution or supply of fireworks in accordance with the provisions of the
Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015, and

18.b

the firework is used for purposes which are necessary in connection with that
trade or business.

19

It is not an offence under section  36 (1)  (prohibition of pyrotechnic
articles at designated venues or events) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic
article in a designated venue or while at a designated event if—

19.a

the person is employed by a business engaged in, or whose trade or business
(or part of whose trade or business) is, the manufacture, importation,
distribution or supply of fireworks or pyrotechnic articles in accordance with
the provisions of the Pyrotechnic Articles (Safety) Regulations 2015, and

19.b

the pyrotechnic article is possessed in connection with that business.

##### Organiser of a public fireworks display

20

It is not an offence under section  22 (1)  (restriction on days of supply of
fireworks) for a person to supply a firework contrary to section  22 (3)  if
the firework is supplied to a person who is the organiser of a public
fireworks display on behalf of a charitable, religious, youth, recreational,
community, political or similar organisation.

21

It is not an offence under section  24 (1)  (restriction on days of use of
fireworks) for a person to use a firework contrary to section  24 (3)  if—

21.a

the person is the organiser of a public fireworks display or is assisting such
an organiser, and

21.b

the firework is used for the purposes of putting on a public fireworks display
on behalf of a charitable, religious, youth, recreational, community,
political or similar organisation.

22

It is not an offence under section  27 (2) (a)  (firework control zones) for a
person to ignite a firework in a firework control zone if—

22.a

the person is the organiser of a public fireworks display or is assisting such
an organiser, and

22.b

the firework is used for the purposes of putting on a public fireworks display
on behalf of a charitable, religious, youth, recreational, community,
political or similar organisation.

23

It is not an offence under section 35(1) (prohibition of pyrotechnic articles
in public places) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic article in a public
place if—

23.a

the person is the organiser of a public fireworks display or is assisting such
an organiser, and

23.b

the pyrotechnic article is possessed for the purposes of putting on a public
fireworks display on behalf of a charitable, religious, youth, recreational,
community, political or similar organisation.

24

It is not an offence under section  36 (1)  (prohibition of pyrotechnic
articles at designated venues or events) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic
article in the circumstances described in that paragraph if—

24.a

the person is the organiser of a public fireworks display or is assisting such
an organiser, and

24.b

the pyrotechnic article is possessed for the purposes of putting on a public
fireworks display on behalf of a charitable, religious, youth, recreational,
community, political or similar organisation.

##### Persons under 18 in education, training or employment

25

It is not an offence under section 21(1) (prohibition on providing fireworks
or pyrotechnic articles to children) for a person to buy, attempt to buy, give
or otherwise make available a firework or pyrotechnic article to a person
under the age of 18 if—

25.a

the person under the age of 18 is undertaking education or training, or is in
employment,

25.b

the possession or use of a firework or pyrotechnic article is necessary in
connection with that education, training or employment, and

25.c

the person buying, attempting to buy, giving or otherwise making available the
firework or pyrotechnic article intends that the person under the age of 18
will possess or use the firework or pyrotechnic article only in connection
with that education, training or employment.

##### Persons outwith Scotland

26

It is not an offence under  section 5 (1)  (supply of fireworks to unlicensed
persons) for a person to supply a firework to a person who does not have a
fireworks licence if the unlicensed person is outwith Scotland and the
firework is to be delivered outwith Scotland.

27

It is not an offence under section  22 (1)  (restriction on days of supply of
fireworks) for a person to supply a firework contrary to section  22 (3)  if
the firework is supplied to a person who is outwith Scotland, but only where
the firework is to be delivered outwith Scotland.

##### Public servants and volunteers in similar roles

28

It is not an offence under section 21(1) (prohibition on providing fireworks
or pyrotechnic articles to children) for a person to give or otherwise make
available a pyrotechnic article to a person under the age of 18 if—

28.a

the person who is under the age of 18 is—

28.a.i

a member of the armed forces of Her Majesty,

28.a.ii

a member of the armed forces of another country when that member is serving
with the armed forces of Her Majesty,

28.a.iii

a member of a cadet force listed in paragraph 30(2),

28.a.iv

a member of a cadet force of another country when that member is undertaking
activities with a cadet force listed in paragraph 30(2) or the armed forces of
Her Majesty,

28.a.v

a member of a service or organisation whose functions (whether as an officer,
employee or volunteer) include law enforcement, search and rescue services or
the preservation of life, and

28.b

the pyrotechnic article is given or made available to the person under the age
of 18 in connection with activities the person is undertaking as a member of
such a force, service or organisation.

29

It is not an offence under section 35(1) (prohibition of pyrotechnic articles
in public places) or section 36(1) (prohibition of pyrotechnic articles at
designated venues or events) for a person to possess a pyrotechnic article in
the circumstances described in that subsection if—

29.a

the person is—

29.a.i

a member of the armed forces of Her Majesty,

29.a.ii

a member of the armed forces of another country when that member is serving
with the armed forces of Her Majesty, or

29.a.iii

a member of a cadet force listed in paragraph 30(2),

29.a.iv

a member of a cadet force of another country when that member is undertaking
activities with a cadet force listed in paragraph 30(2) or the armed forces of
Her Majesty,

29.a.v

a member of a service or organisation whose functions (whether as an officer,
employee or volunteer) include law enforcement, search and rescue services or
the preservation of life, and

29.b

the pyrotechnic article is possessed by the person in connection with
activities the person is undertaking as a member of such a force, service or
organisation.

30

30.1

In paragraphs 28 and 29, “ armed forces ” means naval, military or air forces
(and includes reserve forces).

30.2

For the purposes of paragraphs 28(a)(iii), 28(a)(iv) and 29(a)(iii), the cadet
forces are—

30.2.a

the Combined Cadet Force,

30.2.b

the Sea Cadet Corps,

30.2.c

the Volunteer Cadet Corps,

30.2.d

the Army Cadet Force,

30.2.e

the Air Training Corps.

  Investigatory powers of a local weights and measures authority

(introduced by   section 39 )

##### General

1

1.1

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may exercise the
powers under  this schedule  for the purpose of ascertaining whether an
offence under  section 5  (supply of fireworks to unlicensed persons) or
section  22  (restriction on days of supply of fireworks) has been, or is
being, committed.

1.2

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may exercise the
power under  paragraph 6  (power to seize and retain items) in relation to—

1.2.a

an item which an officer of the authority reasonably suspects may disclose (by
means of testing or otherwise) the commission of an offence under  section 5
or  22 ,

1.2.b

a firework or pyrotechnic article which an officer of the authority reasonably
suspects is liable to forfeiture under this Act, and

1.2.c

an item which an officer of the authority reasonably suspects may be required
as evidence in proceedings for an offence under  section 5  or  22 .

1.3

A local weights and measures authority (and its officers) may not exercise the
power under  paragraph 7  (powers in relation to documents) or  paragraph 9
(power of entry with warrant) for the purpose mentioned in  sub-paragraph (1)
unless an officer of the authority reasonably suspects that an offence under
section 5  or  22  has been, or is being, committed.

##### Power to purchase fireworks

2

2.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may—

2.1.a

make a purchase of a firework to which  Part 2  or  section 22  applies, or

2.1.b

direct or enter into an agreement with a person to secure the acquisition or
supply of such a firework.

2.2

For the purposes of exercising the power under  sub-paragraph (1) , the
officer may—

2.2.a

at any reasonable time, enter premises to which the public has access (whether
or not the public has access at that time), and

2.2.b

inspect any product on the premises which the public may inspect.

2.3

The power of entry in  sub-paragraph (2)  may be exercised without first
giving notice or obtaining a warrant.

2.4

In  this paragraph , “ premises ” includes any—

2.4.a

land or building,

2.4.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

2.4.c

tent or moveable structure,

except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling.

##### Power to observe carrying on of business etc.

3

3.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may enter premises to
which the public has access in order to observe the carrying on of a business
on those premises.

3.2

The power under  sub-paragraph (1)  may be exercised at any reasonable time
(whether or not the public has access at that time).

3.3

The power of entry under  sub-paragraph (1)  may be exercised without first
giving notice or obtaining a warrant.

3.4

In this paragraph, “ premises ” includes any—

3.4.a

land or building,

3.4.b

vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,

3.4.c

tent or moveable structure,

except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as a private dwelling.

##### Power to enter premises without warrant

4

4.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may enter premises at any
reasonable time.

4.2

In the case of a routine inspection, the power of entry in  sub-paragraph (1)
may only be exercised if a notice has been given to the occupier of the
premises in accordance with the requirements in  sub-paragraph (3) , unless
sub-paragraph (4)  applies.

4.3

Those requirements are that—

4.3.a

the notice is in writing and is given by the officer,

4.3.b

the notice sets out why the entry is necessary and indicates the nature of the
offence under  section 42  (obstruction), and

4.3.c

there are at least two working days between the date of receipt of the notice
and the date of entry.

4.4

A notice need not be given if the occupier has waived the requirement to give
notice.

4.5

In  this paragraph  “ routine inspection ” means an exercise of the power
under  sub-paragraph (1)  other than where—

4.5.a

the power is exercised by an officer who reasonably suspects that an offence
has been, or is being, committed under  section 5  or  22 , or

4.5.b

the officer reasonably considers that to give notice in accordance with  sub-
paragraph (2)  would defeat the purpose of the entry.

4.6

If an officer enters premises under  sub-paragraph (1)  that are occupied,
otherwise than in the course of a routine inspection, the officer must provide
to an occupier a document that—

4.6.a

sets out why the entry is necessary, and

4.6.b

indicates the nature of the offence under  section 42 .

4.7

If an officer enters premises under  sub-paragraph (1)  that are occupied, the
officer must produce evidence of the officer's identity and authority to an
occupier.

4.8

An officer need not comply with  sub-paragraph (6)  or  (7)  if it is not
reasonably practicable to do so.

4.9

Proceedings resulting from the exercise of the power under  sub-paragraph (1)
are not invalid merely because of a failure to comply with  sub-paragraph (6)
or  (7) .

4.10

An officer entering premises under  sub-paragraph (1)  may be accompanied by
such persons, and may take onto the premises such equipment, as the officer
considers necessary.

4.11

In  this paragraph —

      “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person an officer of a
weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the occupier of the
premises,           “ premises ” includes any—         land or building,
vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,           tent or moveable
structure,              except where the premises are used wholly or mainly as
a private dwelling,           “ working day ” means any day other than—
Saturday or Sunday,           Christmas Day or Good Friday, or           a day
which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in
Scotland.

##### Power to inspect and test fireworks 

5

5.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may—

5.1.a

inspect a firework or an item suspected to be a firework on the premises,

5.1.b

arrange for a firework or an item suspected to be a firework to be tested (and
may seize and retain the firework or item under  paragraph 6  to do so).

5.2

Inspection and testing under  this paragraph  may carried out only for the
purposes of determining—

5.2.a

whether or not an item is a firework, or

5.2.b

the category of a firework (or suspected firework) for the purposes of this
Act (see  section 2 ).

##### Power to seize and retain items

6

6.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may seize and retain an
item other than a document (for which see  paragraph 7 ).

6.2

An officer seizing an item under  this paragraph  from premises which are
occupied must produce evidence of the officer's identity and authority to an
occupier of the premises before seizing it.

6.3

The officer need not comply with  sub-paragraph (2)  if it is not reasonably
practicable to do so.

6.4

An officer seizing an item under  this paragraph  must take reasonable steps
to—

6.4.a

inform the person from whom it is seized that it has been seized, and

6.4.b

provide that person with a written record of what has been seized.

6.5

An item seized under  this paragraph  (except an item seized for the purpose
in  paragraph 1 (2) (b) ) may not be detained—

6.5.a

for a period of more than 3 months beginning with the day on which it was
seized, or

6.5.b

where the item is reasonably required to be retained for a longer period by
the officer for a purpose for which it was seized, for longer than it is
required for that purpose.

##### Powers in relation to documents

7

7.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may, at any reasonable
time—

7.1.a

require a person who is offering to supply fireworks to the public in the
course of a business (“the trader”), an employee of the trader or any other
person acting on behalf of the trader, to produce any document relating to the
trader's business to which the trader, employee or other person has access,

7.1.b

take copies of, or copies of any entry in, any such document,

7.1.c

seize and retain any such document which the officer reasonably suspects may
be required as evidence.

7.2

The powers in sub-paragraph (1) include power to require the trader, employee
or other person to give an explanation of the document.

7.3

Where a document required to be produced under  sub-paragraph (1)  contains
information recorded electronically, the power under that sub-paragraph
includes power to require the production of a copy of the document in a form
in which it can easily be taken away and in which it is visible and legible.

7.4

This paragraph  does not permit an officer to require a person to create a
document other than as described in  sub-paragraph (3) .

7.5

An officer seizing a document under  this paragraph  from premises which are
occupied must produce evidence of the officer's identity and authority to an
occupier of the premises before seizing it.

7.6

The officer need not comply with  sub-paragraph (5)  if it is not reasonably
practicable to do so.

7.7

An officer seizing a document under  this paragraph  must take reasonable
steps to—

7.7.a

inform the person from whom it is seized that it has been seized, and

7.7.b

provide that person with a written record of what has been seized.

7.8

This paragraph  does not permit an officer to require a person to produce or
seize any document which the person would be entitled to refuse to produce in
proceedings in the Court of Session on the grounds of confidentiality of
communications.

7.9

In  sub-paragraph (8) , “ communications ” means—

7.9.a

communications between a professional legal adviser and the adviser's client,
or

7.9.b

communications made in connection with or in contemplation of legal
proceedings or for the purposes of those proceedings.

7.10

In  this paragraph , “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person
an officer of a weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the
occupier of the premises.

##### Power to break open container etc.

8

8.1

An officer of a local weights and measures authority may, for the purpose of
exercising the powers under paragraph  5 ,  6  or  7 , require a person with
authority to do so to—

8.1.a

break open any container, or

8.1.b

access any electronic device in which information may be stored or from which
it may be accessed.

8.2

Where a requirement under  sub-paragraph (1)  has not been complied with, the
officer may, for the purpose of exercising any of the powers in  paragraph 7 —

8.2.a

break open the container, or

8.2.b

access the electronic device.

8.3

Sub-paragraph (1)  or  (2)  applies if and to the extent that the exercise of
the power under that sub-paragraph is reasonably necessary for the purposes
for which that power may be exercised.

8.4

In  this paragraph  “ container ” means anything in which an item or document
may be stored.

##### Power of entry with warrant

9

9.1

A sheriff may grant a warrant under this section authorising an officer of a
local weights and measures authority to enter premises if the sheriff is
satisfied, by evidence on oath, that—

9.1.a

there are reasonable grounds for suspecting—

9.1.a.i

that an offence under  section 5  or  22  has been, or is being, committed at
the premises, or

9.1.a.ii

that there is an item or document on the premises that the officer has the
power to inspect or require to be produced, and

9.1.b

one of the following conditions is met—

9.1.b.i

access to the premises has been or is likely to be refused and notice of the
officer’s intention to apply for a warrant under  this paragraph  has been
given to the occupier of the premises,

9.1.b.ii

it is likely that items or documents on the premises would be concealed or
interfered with if notice of entry on the premises were given to the occupier
of the premises, or

9.1.b.iii

the premises are unoccupied or the occupier of the premises is absent and it
might defeat the purpose of the entry to wait for the occupier’s return.

9.2

A warrant granted under this section remains in force for a period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which it was granted.

9.3

An officer may be accompanied by such persons, and may take onto the premises
such equipment, as the officer considers necessary.

9.4

A warrant granted under this section may authorise an officer to—

9.4.a

enter the premises by force if necessary,

9.4.b

exercise the powers in  paragraph 5 ,  6 ,  7  or  8 .

9.5

If the premises are occupied when the officer enters them, the officer must
produce the warrant for inspection to an occupier of the premises.

9.6

Sub-paragraph (7)  applies if the premises are unoccupied or the occupier is
temporarily absent.

9.7

On leaving the premises, the officer must—

9.7.a

leave a notice on the premises stating that the premises have been entered
under a warrant under  this paragraph , and

9.7.b

leave the premises as effectively secured as the officer found them.

9.8

In  this paragraph —

      “ occupier ”, in relation to premises, means any person an officer of a
weights and measures authority reasonably suspects to be the occupier of the
premises,           “ premises ” includes any—         land or building,
vehicle, vessel, trailer, aircraft or hovercraft,            tent or moveable
structure,             (whether or not the premises are used wholly or mainly
as a private dwelling).

##### Power to require assistance from person on premises

10

If an officer of a local weights and measures authority has entered premises
under  paragraph 4 (1)  or under a warrant under  paragraph 9 , the officer
may require any person on the premises to provide such assistance or
information as the officer reasonably considers necessary.

##### Access to seized items and documents

11

11.1

This paragraph  applies where a thing seized by an officer of a local weights
and measures authority under  this schedule  is retained by the authority.

11.2

If a request for permission to be granted access to that thing is made to the
local weights and measures authority by a person who had custody or control of
it immediately before it was seized, the authority must allow that person
access to it under the supervision of an officer of the authority.

11.3

If a request for a photograph or copy of that thing is made to the local
weights and measures authority by a person who had custody or control of it
immediately before it was seized, the authority must—

11.3.a

allow that person access to it under the supervision of an officer of the
authority for the purpose of photographing or copying it, or

11.3.b

photograph or copy it, or cause it to be photographed or copied.

11.4

Where anything is photographed or copied under  sub-paragraph (3) , the
photograph or copy must be supplied to the person who made the request within
a reasonable time from the making of the request.

11.5

This paragraph  does not require access to be granted to, or a photograph or
copy to be supplied of, a thing if the local weights and measures authority
has reasonable grounds for believing that to do so would prejudice the
investigation for the purposes of which it was seized.

11.6

A local weights and measures authority may recover the reasonable costs of
complying with a request under  this paragraph  from the person by whom or on
whose behalf it was made.

11.7

References in  this paragraph  to a person who had custody or control of a
thing immediately before it was seized include a representative of such a
person.

##### Notice of testing of item

12

12.1

Sub-paragraphs (2)  and  (3)  apply where—

12.1.a

a firework purchased (or acquired under direction or by arrangement) by an
officer of a local weights and measures authority under  paragraph 2  is
submitted to a test and as a result proceedings are brought for an offence
under  section 5  or  22 , or

12.1.b

a firework or item seized by an officer of a local weights and measures
authority under  paragraph 6  is submitted to a test.

12.2

The local weights and measures must inform the relevant person of the results
of the test.

12.3

The local weights and measures authority must allow a relevant person to have
the firework or item tested if it is reasonably practicable to do so.

12.4

In  sub-paragraph (2) , “ relevant person ” means the person from whom the
firework or item was purchased or seized.

12.5

In  sub-paragraph (3) , “ relevant person ” means—

12.5.a

in a case within  sub-paragraph (1) (a) , a person who is a party to the
proceedings, or

12.5.b

in any other case, a person referred to in  sub-paragraph (4) .

##### Application for release of firework, item or document

13

13.1

This paragraph  applies where a firework, item or document is being retained
as the result of the exercise of a power under  this schedule .

13.2

A person with an interest in the firework, item or document may apply to a
sheriff for an order requiring it to be released to that or another person.

13.3

The sheriff may make an order requiring a firework, item or document to be
released only if satisfied that condition A or B is met.

13.4

Condition A is that—

13.4.a

no proceedings have been brought for an offence as the result of the
investigation in the course of which the firework, item or document was
seized, and

13.4.b

the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the firework, item or
document was seized has expired.

13.5

Condition B is that—

13.5.a

proceedings of the kind mentioned in  sub-paragraph (4) (a)  have been
brought, and

13.5.b

those proceedings have been concluded without the firework, item or document
being forfeited.

##### Compensation

14

14.1

This paragraph  applies where an officer of a local weights and measures
authority has seized and retained a firework or item under  this schedule  for
a purpose within  paragraph 1 (2) (a) .

14.2

The local weights and measures authority must pay compensation to any person
with an interest in the firework or item in respect of any loss or damage
caused by the seizure and retention if—

14.2.a

the firework or item has not disclosed an offence under  section 5  or  22 ,
and

14.2.b

the power to seize and retain the firework or item was not exercised as a
result of any neglect or default of the person seeking the compensation.

14.3

Any dispute about the right to or amount of any compensation payable under
this paragraph  is to be determined by a single arbitrator appointed by the
parties or, if there is no agreement between the parties as to that
appointment, by the sheriff.

