Title: Good Food Nation (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2024-07-25
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/5

## Good Food Nation (Scotland) Act 2022

### National good food nation plan

#### Requirement to produce plan

1

1.1

The Scottish Ministers must—

1.1.a

publish, and

1.1.b

lay before the Scottish Parliament,

a national good food nation plan.

1.2

Subsection (1)  must be complied with before the end of the period of 3 months
beginning with the expiry of the period mentioned in section 3(1)(a).

1.3

The national good food nation plan must set out—

1.3.a

the main outcomes in relation to food-related issues which the Scottish
Ministers want to be achieved in relation to Scotland,

1.3.b

indicators or other measures by which progress in achieving the outcomes may
be assessed, and

1.3.c

the policies which the Scottish Ministers intend to pursue in order to secure
the achievement of the outcomes.

1.4

The national good food nation plan must also set out the Scottish Ministers’
plans for ensuring that the implementation of the policies mentioned in
subsection (3)(c) is informed by the views of the food business sector.

1.5

The national good food nation plan may include such other material in relation
to food-related issues as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

1.6

In determining the content of the national good food nation plan so far as
required by subsection (3), the Scottish Ministers must have regard to the
scope for food-related issues to affect outcomes in relation to, among other
things—

1.6.a

social and economic wellbeing,

1.6.b

the environment, including in particular in relation to—

1.6.b.i

climate change, and

1.6.b.ii

wildlife and the natural environment,

1.6.c

health and physical and mental wellbeing (including in particular through the
provision of health and social care services),

1.6.d

economic development,

1.6.e

animal welfare,

1.6.f

education, and

1.6.g

child poverty.

#### Preparation of plan: principles

2

In preparing the national good food nation plan, the Scottish Ministers must
have regard to—

2.a

the fact that each part of the food system and supply chain plays an important
role in the provision of food,

2.b

the role of a sustainable food system and supply chain in contributing to
mitigation of climate change, halting and reversing of loss of biodiversity
and improvement in animal welfare,

2.c

the ability of high quality, nutritious and culturally appropriate food to
improve the health and physical and mental wellbeing of people,

2.d

the fact that adequate food is a human right (as part of the right to an
adequate standard of living set out in Article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) and essential to the
realisation of other human rights,

2.e

the importance of the food business sector—

2.e.i

continuing to be a thriving part of the Scottish economy,

2.e.ii

having resilient supply chains,

2.e.iii

operating with fair work standards, and

2.e.iv

in contributing to resilient local economies across Scotland.

#### Requirement to lay proposed plan before the Parliament

3

3.1

Before complying with the requirement to lay a national good food nation plan
in section 1(1), the Scottish Ministers must—

3.1.a

lay the proposed plan before the Scottish Parliament for a period of 60 days,
of which no fewer than 30 days must be days on which the Parliament is neither
dissolved nor in recess, and

3.1.b

before finalising the plan have regard to—

3.1.b.i

any representations about the proposed plan that are made to them,

3.1.b.ii

any resolution relating to the proposed plan passed by the Parliament, and

3.1.b.iii

any report relating to the draft plan published by any committee of the
Parliament for the time being appointed by virtue of the standing orders,

during that period.

3.2

The proposed plan must be laid before the Parliament under subsection (1)(a)
not later than the end of the period of 12 months beginning with the day on
which this section comes into force.

3.3

The Scottish Ministers must, when laying the national good food nation plan
before the Parliament under section 1(1), lay a statement setting out—

3.3.a

details of any representations, resolutions or reports mentioned in subsection
(1)(b), and

3.3.b

the changes (if any) they have made to the plan in response to such
representations, resolutions or reports and the reasons for those changes.

#### Preparation of plan: consultation

4

4.1

In preparing the national good food nation plan, the Scottish Ministers must—

4.1.a

publish, and consult on, a draft of the plan, and

4.1.b

have regard to any responses to the consultation.

4.2

The persons consulted under  subsection (1) (a)  are to be those who the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

4.3

In consulting under subsection (1)(a), the Scottish Ministers must have regard
to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

4.4

In consulting under subsection (1)(a), the Scottish Ministers must have regard
to the importance of communicating in a way that is effective in engaging
children and young people.

4.5

The Scottish Ministers must, when laying the proposed national good food
nation plan before the Scottish Parliament under section 3(1)(a), publish a
statement—

4.5.a

summarising—

4.5.a.i

the consultation process undertaken in order to comply with subsection (1)(a),
and

4.5.a.ii

any responses to the consultation, and

4.5.b

setting out how in preparing the plan they complied with subsection (1)(b) and
(3).

#### Preparation of plan: consideration of international instruments

5

5.1

In preparing the national good food nation plan, the Scottish Ministers must
have regard to the international instruments listed in  subsection (2) .

5.2

Those instruments are—

5.2.a

Article 11 (so far as it concerns adequate food) of the International Covenant
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights,

5.2.b

Article 24(2)(c) (so far as it concerns the provision of adequate nutritious
foods) of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child,

5.2.c

Articles 27(1) and (3) (so far as they concern nutrition) of the United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child,

5.2.d

Article 12(2) (so far as it as concerns adequate nutrition during pregnancy
and lactation) of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women.

5.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the list in  subsection (2)
so as to add, remove or vary a reference to an international instrument.

5.4

The provision which may be made by regulations under  subsection (3)
includes—

5.4.a

limiting the extent of an international instrument to a particular matter,

5.4.b

providing that a reference to an international instrument is a reference to
that instrument as it has effect—

5.4.b.i

at a particular time, or

5.4.b.ii

as amended from time to time.

#### Effect of plan

6

The Scottish Ministers must, when exercising a specified function or a
function falling within a specified description, have regard to the national
good food nation plan.

#### Reporting

7

7.1

As soon as practicable after the end of each reporting period, the Scottish
Ministers must—

7.1.a

publish, and

7.1.b

lay before the Scottish Parliament,

a report setting out progress made in the reporting period towards achieving
the outcomes set out in the national good food nation plan, by reference to
the indicators or other measures contained in the plan by virtue of  section 1
(3) (b) .

7.2

In relation to any outcome that the report states is not being achieved at the
end of the reporting period, the report must set out—

7.2.a

the view of the Scottish Ministers as to whether the policies in the plan
which are directed at the achievement of the outcome remain sufficient, and

7.2.b

if—

7.2.b.i

the view is that the policies are sufficient, the reasons for the view,

7.2.b.ii

the view is that the policies are insufficient, what action the Scottish
Ministers intend to take.

7.3

The report may include such other material in relation to food-related issues
as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

7.4

In  this section , “ reporting period ” means—

7.4.a

the period of 2 years beginning with the day on which  section 1 (1)  is
complied with, and

7.4.b

each subsequent period of 2 years.

#### Review and revision of plan

8

8.1

Before the end of—

8.1.a

the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which  section 1 (1)  is
complied with, and

8.1.b

each subsequent period of 5 years,

the Scottish Ministers must review the national good food nation plan.

8.2

In reviewing the plan, the Scottish Ministers must have regard to any
recommendation made by virtue of section 20(3)(a) which was published—

8.2.a

if this is the first review, since the plan was published,

8.2.b

if this is a subsequent review, since the last review.

8.3

Following a review, the Scottish Ministers may revise the plan as they
consider appropriate.

8.4

Sections 1 (3)  to  (6) , 2,  4 (1) to (3) and  5 (1)  apply in relation to
revising the plan as they apply in relation to the preparation of the plan in
the first place.

8.5

As soon as practicable after revising the plan, the Scottish Ministers must—

8.5.a

publish, and

8.5.b

lay before the Scottish Parliament,

the plan as so revised.

8.6

Sections 3(1) and (3) and 4(4) apply in relation to a revised national good
food nation plan as they apply in relation to the national good food nation
plan in the first place.

#### Publication of documents: inclusive communications

9

In publishing a document under any of sections 1 to 8, the Scottish Ministers
must have regard to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

### Good food nation plans of public bodies

#### Requirements to produce plans

10

10.1

Each relevant authority must publish a good food nation plan.

10.2

In this Act, a “relevant authority” is—

10.2.a

a health board,

10.2.b

a local authority,

10.2.c

a specified public authority.

10.3

Subsection (1)  must be complied with—

10.3.a

in the case of a health board or local authority, before the end of the period
of 12 months beginning with the day on which  this section  comes into force,

10.3.b

otherwise, before the end of the period specified in relation to the authority
concerned.

10.4

A relevant authority’s good food nation plan must set out—

10.4.a

the main outcomes in relation to food-related issues which the relevant
authority wants to be achieved within the relevant authority’s areas of
responsibility,

10.4.b

indicators or other measures by which progress in achieving the outcomes may
be assessed, and

10.4.c

the policies which the relevant authority intends to pursue in order to secure
the achievement of the outcomes.

10.5

A relevant authority’s good food nation plan may include such other material
in relation to food-related issues as the relevant authority considers
appropriate.

10.6

In determining the content of its good food nation plan, a relevant authority
must have regard to the scope for food-related issues to affect outcomes in
relation to, among other things—

10.6.a

social and economic wellbeing,

10.6.b

the environment, including in particular in relation to—

10.6.b.i

climate change, and

10.6.b.ii

wildlife and the natural environment,

10.6.c

health and physical and mental wellbeing (including in particular through the
provision of health and social care services),

10.6.d

economic development,

10.6.e

animal welfare,

10.6.f

education,

10.6.g

child poverty, and

10.6.h

any other matter specified by the Scottish Ministers.

#### Preparation of plans: principles

11

In preparing a good food nation plan under section 10, a relevant authority
must have regard to—

11.a

the fact that each part of the food system and supply chain plays an important
role in the provision of food,

11.b

the role of a sustainable food system and supply chain in contributing to
mitigation of climate change, halting and reversing of loss of biodiversity
and improvement in animal welfare,

11.c

the ability of high quality, nutritious and culturally appropriate food to
improve the health and physical and mental wellbeing of people,

11.d

the fact that adequate food is a human right (as part of the right to an
adequate standard of living set out in Article 11 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights) and essential to the
realisation of other human rights,

11.e

the importance of the food business sector—

11.e.i

continuing to be a thriving part of the Scottish economy,

11.e.ii

having resilient supply chains,

11.e.iii

operating with fair work standards, and

11.e.iv

contributing to resilient local economies across Scotland.

#### Preparation of plans: consultation

12

12.1

In preparing a good food nation plan under  section 10 , a relevant authority
must—

12.1.a

publish, and consult on, a draft of the plan, and

12.1.b

have regard to any responses to the consultation.

12.2

Those consulted under  subsection (1) (a)  are to be those who the relevant
authority considers appropriate.

12.3

In consulting under subsection (1)(a), a relevant authority must have regard
to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

12.4

In consulting under subsection (1)(a), a relevant authority must have regard
to the importance of communicating in a way that is effective in engaging
children and young people.

#### Preparation of plans: consideration of national plan

13

In preparing a good food nation plan under  section 10 , a relevant authority
must have regard to the national good food nation plan.

#### Statement accompanying plan

14

A relevant authority must, when publishing its good food nation plan, publish
a statement setting out how in preparing the plan it complied with sections 11
and 13.

#### Effect of plans

15

A relevant authority must, when exercising a specified function or a function
falling within a specified description, have regard to the relevant
authority’s good food nation plan.

#### Reporting

16

16.1

As soon as practicable after the end of each reporting period, a relevant
authority must publish a report setting out progress made in the reporting
period towards achieving the outcomes set out in its good food nation plan, by
reference to the indicators or other measures contained in its plan by virtue
of  section 10 (4) (b) .

16.2

The report may include such other material in relation to food-related issues
as the relevant authority considers appropriate.

16.3

In  this section , “ reporting period ” means—

16.3.a

the period of 2 years beginning with the day on which  section 10 (1)  is
complied with by the relevant authority, and

16.3.b

each subsequent period of 2 years.

#### Review and revision of plans

17

17.1

Before the end of—

17.1.a

the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which  section 10 (1)  is
complied with by it, and

17.1.b

each subsequent period of 5 years,

a relevant authority must review its good food nation plan.

17.2

In reviewing its plan, a relevant authority must have regard to any
recommendation made by virtue of section 20(3)(b) which was published—

17.2.a

if this is the first review, since the plan was published,

17.2.b

if this is a subsequent review, since the last review.

17.3

Following a review, the relevant authority may revise the plan as the relevant
authority considers appropriate.

17.4

Sections 10 (4)  to  (6) , 11,  12  and  13  apply in relation to revising the
plan as they apply in relation to the preparation of the plan in the first
place.

17.5

A relevant authority must, when publishing a revised good food nation plan,
publish a statement setting out how in revising the plan it complied with
sections 11 and 13.

17.6

As soon as practicable after revising the plan, a relevant authority must
publish the plan as so revised.

#### Publication of documents: inclusive communications

18

In publishing a document under any of sections 10 to 17, a relevant authority
must have regard to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

### Oversight by food commission

#### Establishment of Scottish Food Commission

19

19.1

The Scottish Food Commission (in Gaelic, Coimisean Bìdh na h-Alba) is
established.

19.2

In this Act, the Scottish Food Commission is referred to as “ the Commission
”.

19.3

Further provision about the constitution and operation of the Commission is
made by the schedule.

#### Functions of the Commission

20

20.1

The functions of the Commission are—

20.1.a

to keep under review—

20.1.a.i

progress in achieving the outcomes in the national good food plan and the good
food nation plans of relevant authorities, and

20.1.a.ii

the effectiveness of those plans in addressing food-related issues, and

20.1.b

to advise, inform and assist the Scottish Ministers and relevant authorities
with a view to—

20.1.b.i

promoting and supporting progress in achieving the outcomes in the national
good food nation plan and the good food nation plans of relevant authorities,
and

20.1.b.ii

improving the effectiveness of those plans in addressing food-related issues.

20.2

The Commission must have regard to any request by the Scottish Ministers to
assist them under subsection (1)(b) in a particular way (for example, by
considering and then advising them on a particular matter).

20.3

In pursuance of subsection (1)(b), the Commission may make formal
recommendations—

20.3.a

to the Scottish Ministers as to action which it considers should be taken in
relation to the national good food nation plan,

20.3.b

to a relevant authority as to action which it considers should be taken in
relation to the authority’s good food nation plan.

20.4

The Commission must publish any formal recommendation it makes.

20.5

Without prejudice to  Part 2  of the schedule, the Commission may, in
particular, for the purpose of its functions—

20.5.a

carry out, commission or support any research it considers appropriate,

20.5.b

seek any independent and expert advice it considers appropriate,

20.5.c

acquire, compile and keep under review information about food-related issues,

20.5.d

keep under review implementation of any international obligation of the United
Kingdom relating to a food-related issue,

20.5.e

have regard to developments in, and information on the effectiveness of,
legislation on food-related issues elsewhere in the world.

20.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify this section so as to—

20.6.a

confer functions on the Commission,

20.6.b

modify the functions of the Commission,

20.6.c

remove functions from the Commission.

20.7

But the power conferred by subsection (6) may not be exercised in a way that
would result in the Commission having a function which relates (wholly or
partly) to something other than the national good food nation plan or the good
food nation plans of relevant authorities.

#### Independence of the Commission

21

21.1

In exercising its functions, the Commission is not subject to the direction or
control of any member of the Scottish Government.

21.2

This section is subject to any contrary provision in this or any other
enactment.

#### Funding and financial assistance

22

22.1

The Scottish Ministers may provide financial assistance (including grants,
loans, guarantees and indemnities) to the Commission.

22.2

The Scottish Ministers may attach conditions (including conditions as to
repayment or the repayment of interest) in respect of any financial assistance
provided.

22.3

The Scottish Ministers may, from time to time after financial assistance is
provided, vary any conditions attached to it.

#### Publication of documents by the Commission: inclusive communication

23

In publishing a document under section 20(4) or the schedule, the Commission
must have regard to the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

### Interpretation

#### Meaning of “food-related issue”

24

24.1

In this Act, “ food-related issue ” means—

24.1.a

a food matter, or

24.1.b

any other matter connected with—

24.1.b.i

the availability of food,

24.1.b.ii

the production, processing or distribution of food,

24.1.b.iii

the preparation or service of food for consumers.

24.2

In  subsection (1) , “ food ” and “ food matter ” have the same meanings as in
the Food (Scotland) Act 2015 (see, respectively, sections 53(1) and 54 of that
Act).

#### Other defined expressions

25

25.1

In this Act—

      “ communicating in an inclusive way ” means communicating in a way that
ensures that individuals who have difficulty communicating (in relation to
speech, language or otherwise) can receive information and expressthemselvesin
waysthat best meet their needs,           “ the Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women ” means the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women adopted and opened
for signature, ratification and accession by General Assembly resolution
34/180 of 18 December 1979,           “ food business sector ” means persons
carrying out businesses involving—         any stage of the production,
processing or distribution of food, or           the preparation or service of
food for consumers,                 “ health board ” means a board constituted
under section 2(1)(a) of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978,
“ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights ” means
the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights adopted and
opened for signature, ratification and accession by General Assembly
resolution 2200A (XXI) of 16 December 1966,           “ international
instrument ”—         means—         any treaty, convention or other
international legislative instrument, or           any document issued by an
international organisation for the purpose of giving guidance to states, and
includes any provision of such an instrument,                 “ international
organisation ” means an organisation and its subordinate bodies governed by
international law, or any other body which is set up by, or on the basis of,
an agreement between two or more states,           “ public authority ” means
a person who is—         a part of the Scottish Administration, or           a
Scottish public authority with mixed functions or no reserved functions
(within the meaning of the Scotland Act 1998),                 “ relevant
authority ” has the meaning given in  section 10 (2) ,           “ specified ”
means specified in regulations made by the Scottish Ministers,           “ the
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child ” means the United
Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted and opened for
signature, ratification and accession by General Assembly resolution 44/25 of
20 November 1989.

25.2

A reference in this Act to an international instrument is, unless the
reference contains contrary provision, a reference to the instrument as it has
effect when  section 5  comes into force.

### Ancillary provision

#### Ancillary provision

26

26.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

26.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

### Regulation-making powers

#### Regulations

27

27.1

A power of the Scottish Ministers to make regulations conferred by any of the
preceding provisions includes power to make—

27.1.a

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision,

27.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

27.2

Before making regulations under section 6, 10(2)(c) or 15, the Scottish
Ministers must—

27.2.a

consult those persons who the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate, and

27.2.b

have regard to any responses to the consultation.

27.3

In consulting under subsection (2), the Scottish Ministers must have regard to
the importance of communicating in an inclusive way.

27.4

Regulations under  section 5 (3)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

27.5

The first regulations under section 6 are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

27.6

Subsequent regulations under section 6 are subject to the negative procedure.

27.7

Regulations under section 10(2)(c) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

27.8

Regulations under section 10(3)(b) or 15 are subject to the negative
procedure.

27.9

Regulations under section 10(6) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

27.10

Regulations under section 20(6) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

27.11

Regulations under  section 26 (1) —

27.11.a

which add to, replace or omit any part of the text of an Act are subject to
the affirmative procedure,

27.11.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

27.12

Regulations under Part 5 of the schedule are subject to the affirmative
procedure.

### Commencement and short title

#### Commencement

28

28.1

The following sections come into force on the day after Royal Assent—

28.1.a

section 24 ,

28.1.b

section 25 ,

28.1.c

section 27 ,

28.1.d

this section , and

28.1.e

section 29 .

28.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

28.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

28.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

28.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

29

The short title of this Act is the Good Food Nation (Scotland) Act 2022.

  Scottish food commission: Constitution and operation

(introduced by section 19)

##### Status

###### Incorporation

1

The Commission is a body corporate.

###### Exclusion of Crown status

2

The Commission is not to be regarded as a servant or agent of the Crown, or
having any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown, nor are its members or
its staff to be regarded as civil servants.

##### Powers

###### General powers

3

The Commission may do anything which appears to it to be—

3.a

necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or in connection with, the
exercise of its functions, or

3.b

otherwise conducive to the exercise of its functions.

##### Procedure

###### Committees and sub-committees

4

The Commission may establish committees and sub-committees.

###### Regulation of procedure

5

The Commission may regulate its own procedure (including quorum) and that of
its committees and sub-committees.

###### Authority to perform functions

6

The Commission may authorise any of its—

6.a

members,

6.b

committees,

6.c

sub-committees, or

6.d

staff,

to exercise such of its functions (and to such extent) as it may determine.

7

The giving of authority under paragraph 6 by the Commission does not—

7.a

affect the Commission’s responsibility for the exercise of its functions, or

7.b

prevent the Commission from exercising the function itself.

###### Validity of things done

8

The validity of anything done by the Commission, its committees or sub-
committees is not affected by—

8.a

a vacancy in its membership,

8.b

a defect in the appointment of a member,

8.c

the disqualification of a member after appointment.

##### Accountability

###### Corporate plan

9

9.1

The Commission must submit a corporate plan to the Scottish Ministers.

9.2

Sub-paragraph (1) must be complied with as soon as reasonably practicable
after the day this paragraph comes into force.

9.3

The corporate plan must set out how the Commission intends to exercise its
functions.

9.4

The corporate plan may include such other material as the Commission considers
appropriate.

9.5

The Scottish Ministers must—

9.5.a

approve the corporate plan,

9.5.b

approve the corporate plan with any modifications they consider appropriate,
or

9.5.c

decline to approve the corporate plan.

9.6

Where the Scottish Ministers intend to approve the corporate plan with
modifications, they must consult the Commission before doing so.

9.7

If sub-paragraph (5)(b) or (c) applies, the Commission must, as soon as
reasonably practicable, modify the corporate plan and submit the modified plan
to the Scottish Ministers.

9.8

Sub-paragraphs (5) to (7) apply to the corporate plan as modified.

9.9

As soon as reasonably practicable after it is approved by the Scottish
Ministers—

9.9.a

the Commission must publish the corporate plan, and

9.9.b

the Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of the corporate plan before the
Scottish Parliament.

9.10

The Commission—

9.10.a

may revise the corporate plan at any time, and

9.10.b

must revise the corporate plan when required to do so by the Scottish
Ministers.

9.11

Sub-paragraphs (1) and (3) to (10) apply to a revised corporate plan as they
apply to the first corporate plan.

###### Accounts and audit

10

10.1

The Commission must—

10.1.a

keep proper accounts and accounting records,

10.1.b

prepare in respect of each financial year a statement of accounts, and

10.1.c

send a copy of the statement to the Auditor General for Scotland for auditing.

10.2

The Commission must comply with any directions which the Scottish Ministers
give it in relation to the matters mentioned in sub-paragraphs (1)(a) and (b).

###### Annual report

11

The Commission must, as soon as reasonably practicable after each financial
year—

11.a

prepare and make publicly available a report of its activities during the
year,

11.b

send a copy of the report to the Scottish Ministers, and

11.c

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament.

##### Members

###### Commission composition

12

12.1

The Commission is to consist of—

12.1.a

a member to chair it, and

12.1.b

at least 2 but no more than 4 other members.

12.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations amend sub-paragraph (1)(b) so as to
alter the maximum number of members.

###### Appointment of members

13

13.1

The Scottish Ministers are to appoint—

13.1.a

the chairing member, and

13.1.b

the ordinary members.

13.2

Appointments are to be made in accordance with regulations made by the
Scottish Ministers.

13.3

A person may be appointed more than once.

13.4

A person who is disqualified from being a member may not be appointed (see
paragraph 17).

13.5

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) may in particular—

13.5.a

specify qualifications and experience that a person must have in order to be
appointed,

13.5.b

require appointments to be made so that a board includes a member who fulfils
criteria specified in the regulations,

13.5.c

require that regard is had when making appointments to the desirability of a
board including a member who fulfils criteria specified in the regulations.

13.6

Criteria, for the purpose of sub-paragraph (5)(b) and (c), may include
criteria about a person’s—

13.6.a

having certain qualifications or experiences,

13.6.b

holding a certain office,

13.6.c

being representative of certain interests.

###### Members’ tenure and other terms and conditions

14

14.1

A person’s membership of the Commission continues until the end of the period
of appointment (subject to paragraph 16).

14.2

In sub-paragraph (1), “ the period of appointment ” means the period specified
by the Scottish Ministers on appointing the person as a member.

14.3

The Scottish Ministers may determine other terms and conditions of membership,
in relation to matters not covered by this schedule.

###### Members’ remuneration, allowances and pensions

15

15.1

The Scottish Ministers may—

15.1.a

pay members of the Commission remuneration and allowances (including
expenses),

15.1.b

pay, or make arrangements for the payment of, pensions, allowances and
gratuities to, or in respect of, any person who is or has been a member of the
Commission.

15.2

The arrangements referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(b) may include—

15.2.a

making payments towards the provision of those pensions, allowances and
gratuities,

15.2.b

providing and maintaining schemes for the payment of those pensions,
allowances and gratuities.

15.3

The reference in sub-paragraph (1)(b) to pensions, allowances and gratuities
includes pensions, allowances and gratuities by way of compensation for loss
of office.

###### Early termination of membership

16

16.1

A person’s membership of the Commission ends if—

16.1.a

the person resigns by written notice given to the Scottish Ministers,

16.1.b

the person becomes disqualified from being a member (see paragraph 17), or

16.1.c

the Scottish Ministers give the person written notice that the person is
removed from the Commission.

16.2

The Scottish Ministers may remove a member of the Commission by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1)(c) only if they consider that the member is—

16.2.a

unfit to continue to be a member, or

16.2.b

unable to exercise the member’s functions.

###### Disqualification from membership

17

17.1

A person is disqualified from being a member of the Commission if the person
is—

17.1.a

disqualified from being a member by virtue of section 19 of the Ethical
Standards in Public Life etc. (Scotland) Act 2000,

17.1.b

disqualified from being the director of a company registered under the
Companies Act 2006 in Great Britain.

17.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify this paragraph to add or
remove descriptions of persons disqualified from being a member of the
Commission.

17.3

Regulations under sub-paragraph (2) may not repeal sub-paragraph (1)(a).

##### Staff

###### Appointment of staff

18

The Commission may appoint staff.

###### Staff terms and conditions

19

Staff appointed by the Commission are appointed on such terms and conditions
as the Scottish Ministers approve.

###### Staff pensions, allowances and gratuities

20

20.1

The Commission may pay, or make arrangements for the payment of, pensions,
allowances and gratuities to, or in respect of, any person who is or has been
a member of its staff.

20.2

But the Commission may not make those payments or arrangements without the
Scottish Ministers’ approval.

20.3

The arrangements referred to in sub-paragraph (1) may include—

20.3.a

making payments toward the provision of pensions, allowances and gratuities,

20.3.b

providing and maintaining schemes for the payment of pensions, allowances and
gratuities.

20.4

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) to pensions, allowances and gratuities
includes pensions, allowances and gratuities by way of compensation for loss
of office.

##### Application of legislation relating to public bodies

###### Amendment of public bodies’ legislation

21

21.1

In the Ethical Standards in Public Life etc. (Scotland) Act 2000, in schedule
3 (devolved public bodies), after the entry relation to the Scottish Fiscal
Commission insert— “The Scottish Food Commission”.

21.2

In the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002, in Part 7 of schedule 1
(non-ministerial office holders in the Scottish Administration), after
paragraph 85ZA insert—

21.2.85ZAA

The Scottish Food Commission

.

21.3

In the Public Appointments and Public Bodies etc. (Scotland) Act 2003, in
schedule 2 (the specified authorities), under the heading “Executive bodies”,
after the entry relating to the Scottish Fiscal Commission insert— “The
Scottish Food Commission”.

21.4

In the Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010, in schedule 8 (listed
public bodies), after the entry relating to the Scottish Fiscal Commission
insert— “The Scottish Food Commission”.

21.5

In the Public Records (Scotland) Act 2011, in the schedule, under the heading
“Others” after the entry relating to the Scottish Fire and Rescue Service
insert— “The Scottish Food Commission”.

21.6

In the Procurement Reform (Scotland) Act 2014, in Part 3 of the schedule
(contracting authorities: others), after paragraph 50 insert—

21.6.50A

The Scottish Food Commission

.

