Title: Health and Care Act 2022
Date: 2024-09-18
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/31

## Health and Care Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Health service in England: integration, collaboration and other changes

#### NHS England

##### NHS Commissioning Board renamed NHS England

1

1.1

The National Health Service Commissioning Board is renamed NHS England.

1.2

Schedule 1 contains consequential amendments.

##### Power to require commissioning of specialised services

2

2.1

Section 3B of the National Health Service Act 2006 (Secretary of State’s power
to require commissioning of services) is amended as follows.

2.2

For subsection (2) substitute—

2.2.2

A service or facility may be prescribed under subsection (1)(d) only if the
Secretary of State considers that it would be appropriate for NHS England to
arrange for the provision of that service or facility (whether by NHS England
making arrangements itself or by giving directions under section  13YB  or
making arrangements under section 65Z5).

2.3

In subsection (3), omit paragraph (d).

2.4

After subsection (4) insert—

2.4.4A

If the Secretary of State refuses a request by NHS England to revoke provision
made by regulations under subsection (1)(d) prescribing a service or facility,
the Secretary of State must explain why to NHS England.

##### Spending on mental health

3

3.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

3.2

After section 12E insert—

########### Expected mental health spending

3.2.12F

3.2.12F.1

The Secretary of State must, in respect of each financial year, publish and
lay before Parliament a document—

3.2.12F.1.a

stating, by comparison with the previous financial year—

3.2.12F.1.a.i

whether the Secretary of State expects there to be an increase in the amount
of expenditure incurred by NHS England and integrated care boards (taken
together) in relation to mental health, and

3.2.12F.1.a.ii

whether the Secretary of State expects there to be an increase in the
proportion of the expenditure incurred by NHS England and integrated care
boards (taken together) that relates to mental health, and

3.2.12F.1.b

explaining why.

3.2.12F.2

The Secretary of State must publish and lay the document before the financial
year to which it relates.

3.3

In section 13U (annual report), after subsection (2A) (inserted by section 34
of this Act) insert—

3.3.2B

The annual report must include—

3.3.2B.a

a statement of the amount of expenditure incurred by NHS England and
integrated care boards during the year (taken together) in relation to mental
health,

3.3.2B.b

a calculation of the proportion of the expenditure incurred by NHS England and
integrated care boards during the year (taken together) that relates to mental
health, and

3.3.2B.c

an explanation of the statement and calculation.

##### NHS England mandate: general

4

4.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 13A (mandate)—

4.2.a

in subsection (1), omit “Before the start of each financial year,”;

4.2.b

in subsection (2), in paragraph (a), omit from “during that financial year” to
the end of that paragraph (but not the final “and”);

4.2.c

omit subsections (3) and (4);

4.2.d

in subsection (5), omit “in relation to the first financial year to which the
mandate relates”;

4.2.e

after subsection (6) insert—

4.2.e.6A

The Secretary of State may revise the mandate.

4.2.e.6B

If the Secretary of State revises the mandate, the Secretary of State must
publish and lay before Parliament the mandate as revised.

4.3

In section 13B (the mandate: supplementary provision)—

4.3.a

for the heading substitute  “Review of NHS England’s performance in
implementing the mandate” ;

4.3.b

omit subsections (2) to (5).

4.4

In section 13T (business plan)—

4.4.a

in subsection (3), omit “for the first financial year to which the plan
relates”;

4.4.b

after subsection (3) insert—

4.4.b.3A

The fact that the mandate is revised during the period to which a business
plan relates does not require NHS England to revise the plan.

4.5

In section 13U (annual report), in subsection (2), for paragraph (a)
substitute—

4.5.a

the extent to which, in that year, it met any objectives or requirements
specified in the mandate,

.

##### NHS England mandate: cancer outcome targets

5

5.1

Section 13A of the National Health Service Act 2006 (mandate) is amended in
accordance with subsection (2).

5.2

After subsection (2), insert the following new subsection—

5.2.2A

The objectives specified by the Secretary of State under subsection (2)(a) for
NHS England must include objectives relating to outcomes for cancer patients,
and those objectives are to be treated by NHS England as having priority over
any other objectives relating specifically to cancer.

##### Duties as to reducing inequalities

6

In section 13G of the National Health Service Act 2006 (NHS England’s duties
in relation to the reduction of inequalities)—

6.a

in paragraph (a), for “patients” substitute  “persons” ;

6.b

in paragraph (b), after “services” insert  “(including the outcomes described
in section 13E(3))” .

##### Duties in respect of research: business plan and annual report etc

7

7.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 13L (duty in respect of research), after “functions,” insert
“facilitate or otherwise” .

7.3

In section 13T (business plan), in subsection (2)(a), after “13G” insert  “,
13L” .

7.4

In section 13U (annual report), in subsection (2)(c) (as amended by section
78(4) of this Act), at the appropriate place insert—

      section 13L;

.

##### NHS England: wider effect of decisions

8

After section 13N of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Duty to have regard to wider effect of decisions

8.13NA

8.13NA.1

In making a decision about the exercise of its functions, NHS England must
have regard to all likely effects of the decision in relation to—

8.13NA.1.a

the health and well-being of the people of England;

8.13NA.1.b

the quality of services provided to individuals—

8.13NA.1.b.i

by relevant bodies, or

8.13NA.1.b.ii

in pursuance of arrangements made by relevant bodies,

for or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness,
as part of the health service in England;

8.13NA.1.c

efficiency and sustainability in relation to the use of resources by relevant
bodies for the purposes of the health service in England.

8.13NA.2

In subsection  (1) —

8.13NA.2.a

the reference to a decision does not include a reference to a decision about
the services to be provided to a particular individual for or in connection
with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness;

8.13NA.2.b

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the health and well-
being of the people of England includes a reference to its effects in relation
to inequalities between the people of England with respect to their health and
well-being;

8.13NA.2.c

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the quality of services
provided to individuals includes a reference to its effects in relation to
inequalities between individuals with respect to the benefits that they can
obtain from those services.

8.13NA.3

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS England must have regard to
guidance published by it under section  13NB .

8.13NA.4

In this section “ relevant bodies ” means—

8.13NA.4.a

NHS England,

8.13NA.4.b

integrated care boards,

8.13NA.4.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

8.13NA.4.d

NHS foundation trusts.

######### Guidance about discharge of duty

8.13NB

8.13NB.1

NHS England may publish guidance about the discharge of—

8.13NB.1.a

the duty imposed on it by section  13NA ;

8.13NB.1.b

the duty imposed on integrated care boards by section  14Z43 ;

8.13NB.1.c

the duty imposed on NHS trusts by section  26A ;

8.13NB.1.d

the duty imposed on NHS foundation trusts by section  63A .

8.13NB.2

NHS England must consult any persons NHS England considers it appropriate to
consult—

8.13NB.2.a

before first publishing guidance under this section, and

8.13NB.2.b

before publishing any revised guidance containing changes that are, in the
opinion of NHS England, significant.

##### NHS England: duties in relation to climate change etc

9

After section 13NB of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by
section 8 of this Act) insert—

######### Duties as to climate change etc

9.13NC

9.13NC.1

NHS England must, in the exercise of its functions, have regard to the need
to—

9.13NC.1.a

contribute towards compliance with—

9.13NC.1.a.i

section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target), and

9.13NC.1.a.ii

section 5 of the Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets), and

9.13NC.1.b

adapt to any current or predicted impacts of climate change identified in the
most recent report under section 56 of the Climate Change Act 2008.

9.13NC.2

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS England must have regard to
guidance published by it under section  13ND .

######### Guidance about discharge of duty under section 

9.13ND

NHS England may publish guidance about the discharge of—

9.13ND.a

the duty imposed on it by section  13NC ;

9.13ND.b

the duty imposed on integrated care boards by section  14Z44 ;

9.13ND.c

the duty imposed on NHS trusts by section 26B;

9.13ND.d

the duty imposed on NHS foundation trusts by section 63B.

##### Public involvement: carers and representatives

10

In section 13Q of the National Health Service Act 2006 (public involvement and
consultation), in subsection (2), after “individuals to whom the services are
being or may be provided” insert  “, and their carers and representatives (if
any),” .

##### Information about inequalities

11

11.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

11.2

After section 13S insert—

########### Information about inequalities

11.2.13SA

11.2.13SA.1

NHS England must publish a statement setting out—

11.2.13SA.1.a

a description of the powers available to relevant NHS bodies to collect,
analyse and publish information relating to—

11.2.13SA.1.a.i

inequalities between persons with respect to their ability to access health
services;

11.2.13SA.1.a.ii

inequalities between persons with respect to the outcomes achieved for them by
the provision of health services (including the outcomes described in section
13E(3)); and

11.2.13SA.1.b

the views of NHS England about how those powers should be exercised in
connection with such information.

11.2.13SA.2

NHS England may from time to time publish a revised statement under subsection
(1).

11.2.13SA.3

In this section “ relevant NHS bodies ” means—

11.2.13SA.3.a

integrated care boards,

11.2.13SA.3.b

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

11.2.13SA.3.c

NHS foundation trusts.

11.3

In Schedule 4 (NHS trusts: constitution etc), in paragraph 12, after sub-
paragraph (1A) (inserted by Schedule 4 to this Act) insert—

11.3.1B

The annual report must, in particular, review the extent to which the NHS
trust has exercised its functions consistently with NHS England’s views set
out in the latest statement published under section 13SA(1) (views about how
functions relating to inequalities information should be exercised).

11.4

In Schedule 7 (constitution of public benefit corporations), in paragraph 26,
after sub-paragraph (1A) (inserted by Schedule 4 to this Act) insert—

11.4.1B

The reports must, in particular, review the extent to which the public benefit
corporation has exercised its functions consistently with NHS England’s views
set out in the latest statement published under section 13SA(1) (views about
how functions relating to inequalities information should be exercised).

##### Support and assistance by NHS England

12

After section 13Y of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Assistance and support

########## Power of NHS England to provide assistance and support

12.13YA

12.13YA.1

NHS England may provide assistance or support to—

12.13YA.1.a

any person providing or proposing to provide services as part of the health
service;

12.13YA.1.b

any person, not within paragraph  (a) , exercising functions in relation to
the health service.

12.13YA.2

The assistance that may be provided under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b)
includes making available the services of NHS England’s employees or any other
resources of NHS England.

12.13YA.3

The assistance that may be provided under subsection  (1)(a) , or that may be
provided under subsection  (1)(b)  to integrated care boards, also includes
financial assistance.

12.13YA.4

Assistance or support provided under this section may be provided on such
terms, including terms as to payment, as NHS England considers appropriate.

##### Exercise of functions relating to provision of services

13

13.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

13.2

After section 13YA (inserted by section 12 of this Act) insert—

########### Discharge of functions

############ Directions in respect of functions relating to provision of services

13.2.13YB

13.2.13YB.1

NHS England may by direction provide for any of its relevant functions to be
exercised by one or more integrated care boards.

13.2.13YB.2

In this section “ relevant function ” means—

13.2.13YB.2.a

any function of NHS England under section 3B(1) (commissioning functions);

13.2.13YB.2.b

any function of NHS England, not within paragraph  (a) , that relates to the
provision of—

13.2.13YB.2.b.i

primary medical services,

13.2.13YB.2.b.ii

primary dental services,

13.2.13YB.2.b.iii

primary ophthalmic services, or

13.2.13YB.2.b.iv

services that may be provided as pharmaceutical services, or as local
pharmaceutical services, under Part 7;

13.2.13YB.2.c

any function of NHS England by virtue of section  7A  or  7B  (exercise of
Secretary of State’s public health functions);

13.2.13YB.2.d

any other functions of NHS England so far as exercisable in connection with
any functions within paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

13.2.13YB.3

Regulations may—

13.2.13YB.3.a

provide that the power in subsection  (1)  does not apply, or applies only to
a prescribed extent, in relation to a prescribed function;

13.2.13YB.3.b

impose conditions on the exercise of the power.

13.2.13YB.4

A direction under subsection  (1)  may include provision prohibiting or
restricting the integrated care board from making delegation arrangements in
relation to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of the direction.

13.2.13YB.5

In subsection  (4)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by a
person for the exercise of a function by someone else.

13.2.13YB.6

NHS England may make payments to an integrated care board in respect of the
exercise by it of a function by virtue of a direction under subsection  (1) .

13.2.13YB.7

NHS England may give directions to an integrated care board as to the exercise
by it of any functions in pursuance of a direction under subsection  (1) .

13.2.13YB.8

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a direction under subsection
(1) , NHS England must publish it.

13.2.13YB.9

Any rights acquired, or liabilities (including liabilities in tort) incurred,
in respect of the exercise by an integrated care board of any function by
virtue of this section are enforceable by or against it (and no other person).

13.3

In section 73 (directions and regulations under Part 2), in subsection (1),
after paragraph (b) insert—

13.3.ba

section  13YB ,

.

##### Preparation of consolidated accounts for providers

14

Before section 66 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (and the italic
heading before it) insert—

######### Consolidated accounts

########## Consolidated accounts for NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts

14.65Z4

14.65Z4.1

NHS England must, in respect of each financial year, prepare a set of accounts
that consolidates the annual accounts of—

14.65Z4.1.a

all NHS trusts established under section 25, and

14.65Z4.1.b

all NHS foundation trusts.

14.65Z4.2

The Secretary of State may give NHS England directions as to—

14.65Z4.2.a

the content and form of the consolidated accounts, and

14.65Z4.2.b

the methods and principles to be applied in preparing them.

14.65Z4.3

NHS England must, within such period as the Secretary of State may direct,
send a copy of the consolidated accounts to—

14.65Z4.3.a

the Secretary of State, and

14.65Z4.3.b

the Comptroller and Auditor General.

14.65Z4.4

The accounts must be accompanied by such reports or other information as the
Secretary of State may direct.

14.65Z4.5

The Comptroller and Auditor General must—

14.65Z4.5.a

examine, certify and report on the consolidated accounts, and

14.65Z4.5.b

send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State and NHS England.

14.65Z4.6

NHS England must lay before Parliament a copy of—

14.65Z4.6.a

the consolidated accounts, and

14.65Z4.6.b

the Comptroller and Auditor General’s report on them.

##### Funding for service integration

15

15.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

15.2

In section 223B (funding of NHS England)—

15.2.a

for subsection (6) substitute—

15.2.a.6

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England—

15.2.a.6.a

that an amount of the sums paid to it under this section in respect of a
financial year is to be used for purposes relating to service integration;

15.2.a.6.b

about the use by NHS England of that amount for those purposes.

;

15.2.b

in subsection (7)—

15.2.b.i

for “subsection (6)” substitute  “subsection (6)(a)” ;

15.2.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “mandate” substitute  “direction” ;

15.2.c

after subsection (7) insert—

15.2.c.7A

The power under subsection  (6)(b)  includes power to give NHS England
directions about the exercise of any of its functions under or by virtue of
section 223GA (including directions requiring consultation with the Secretary
of State or other specified persons).

15.2.c.7B

The Secretary of State must publish any direction under subsection  (6) .

15.3

In section 223GA (expenditure on integration)—

15.3.a

for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

15.3.a.1

Where the Secretary of State has given NHS England a direction under section
223B (6)(a)  about sums paid to it in respect of a financial year, NHS England
may direct an integrated care board that an amount (a “designated amount”) of
the sums paid to the board under section 223G in respect of that year is to be
used for purposes relating to service integration.

15.3.a.2

The designated amount—

15.3.a.2.a

is to be determined in such manner as NHS England considers appropriate, and

15.3.a.2.b

must be specified in the direction under subsection  (1) .

;

15.3.b

in subsection (6), for paragraph (a) (but not the “and” at the end)
substitute—

15.3.b.a

it may use the amount for any purposes relating to service integration,

;

15.3.c

omit subsection (7).

##### Payments in respect of quality

16

In section 223K of the National Health Service Act 2006, omit subsections (4)
and (5) (power of Secretary of State to make regulations about payments by NHS
England in respect of quality).

##### Secondments to NHS England

17

17.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

17.2

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection (6)—

17.2.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b);

17.2.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

17.2.b.d

regulations under paragraph  9A(5)  of Schedule A1, or

.

17.3

In Schedule A1 (constitution of NHS England), after paragraph 9 insert—

17.3.9A

17.3.9A.1

NHS England may make arrangements for a person to be seconded to NHS England
to serve as a member of NHS England’s staff.

17.3.9A.2

A period of secondment to NHS England does not affect the continuity of a
person’s employment with the employer from whose service the person is
seconded.

17.3.9A.3

In paragraphs 9, 10, and 13 a reference to an employee of NHS England includes
a person seconded to NHS England.

17.3.9A.4

In paragraph 3(3) the reference to an employee of NHS England includes any of
the following seconded to NHS England—

17.3.9A.4.a

a person employed in the civil service of the State, or

17.3.9A.4.b

a person employed by—

17.3.9A.4.b.i

an integrated care board,

17.3.9A.4.b.ii

an NHS trust established under section 25,

17.3.9A.4.b.iii

an NHS foundation trust,

17.3.9A.4.b.iv

a Special Health Authority performing functions only or mainly in respect of
England,

17.3.9A.4.b.v

the Care Quality Commission,

17.3.9A.4.b.vi

the Health and Social Care Information Centre,

17.3.9A.4.b.vii

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,

17.3.9A.4.b.viii

the Human Tissue Authority,

17.3.9A.4.b.ix

the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, or

17.3.9A.4.b.x

NICE.

17.3.9A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this paragraph so as to
provide that other references in this Act to an employee of NHS England
include persons, or persons of a prescribed description, seconded to NHS
England.

#### Integrated care boards

##### Role of integrated care boards

18

For section 1I of the National Health Service Act 2006 and the italic heading
before it substitute—

######### Role of integrated care boards in the health service in England

########## General functions of integrated care boards

18.1I

An integrated care board established under Chapter A3 of Part 2 has the
function of arranging for the provision of services for the purposes of the
health service in England in accordance with this Act.

##### Establishment of integrated care boards

19

19.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

19.2

In Part 2, after Chapter A2 insert—

########### Integrated care boards

############ “Establishment of integrated care boards (including by re-purposing clinical commissioning groups)

############# Duty to establish integrated care boards

19.2.14Z25

19.2.14Z25.1

NHS England must establish bodies called integrated care boards in accordance
with this Chapter.

19.2.14Z25.2

Each integrated care board is to be established by order made by NHS England
for an area within England.

19.2.14Z25.3

The area for which an integrated care board is established must not coincide
or overlap with the area of any other integrated care board.

19.2.14Z25.4

NHS England must ensure that, at all times on and after the appointed day, the
areas of integrated care boards together cover the whole of England.

19.2.14Z25.5

An order establishing an integrated care board must provide for the
constitution of the board, either by setting out the constitution or by making
provision by reference to a published document where it is set out.

19.2.14Z25.6

In Schedule 1B—

19.2.14Z25.6.a

Part 1 is about the constitution of an integrated care board (including its
area);

19.2.14Z25.6.b

Part 2 is about the status and powers of an integrated care board and its
accounts.

19.2.14Z25.7

Before varying or revoking an order under this section NHS England must
consult any integrated care board that it considers likely to be affected.

19.2.14Z25.8

NHS England must publish orders under this section.

19.2.14Z25.9

In this section “ the appointed day ” means a day appointed under this
subsection by regulations made by the Secretary of State.

############# Process for establishing initial integrated care boards

19.2.14Z26

19.2.14Z26.1

NHS England must publish a list of the initial areas for which integrated care
boards are to be established (each of which is referred to in this section as
an “ initial area ”).

19.2.14Z26.2

The relevant clinical commissioning group or groups for an initial area must
propose the constitution of the first integrated care board to be established
for that area.

19.2.14Z26.3

Before making a proposal under subsection  (2) , the relevant clinical
commissioning group or groups must consult any persons they consider it
appropriate to consult (and it is immaterial for this purpose whether the
consultation is carried out before or after this section comes into force).

19.2.14Z26.4

When establishing the first integrated care board under section  14Z25  for an
initial area, NHS England must give effect to any proposal under subsection
(2)  unless it considers that—

19.2.14Z26.4.a

the proposal is inappropriate, or

19.2.14Z26.4.b

the relevant clinical commissioning group or groups have not carried out an
appropriate consultation under subsection  (3) ,

and in that case NHS England must determine the terms of the constitution
itself.

19.2.14Z26.5

Nothing in this section—

19.2.14Z26.5.a

prevents NHS England from establishing the first integrated care board for an
initial area in a case where the relevant clinical commissioning group or
groups have failed within a reasonable period to make a proposal under
subsection  (2) , or

19.2.14Z26.5.b

limits the re-exercise of the power in section  14Z25 .

19.2.14Z26.6

NHS England may publish guidance for clinical commissioning groups about the
exercise of their functions under this section.

19.2.14Z26.7

A clinical commissioning group must have regard to guidance published under
this section.

19.2.14Z26.8

In this section “ the relevant clinical commissioning group or groups ” means—

19.2.14Z26.8.a

in relation to an area that coincides with the area of a clinical
commissioning group, that group;

19.2.14Z26.8.b

in relation to an area that includes the whole or part of the area of more
than one clinical commissioning group, those groups acting jointly.

############# Abolition of clinical commissioning groups

19.2.14Z27

19.2.14Z27.1

Any clinical commissioning group in existence immediately before the appointed
day is abolished at the beginning of that day.

19.2.14Z27.2

In this section “ the appointed day ” has the same meaning as in section
14Z25 .

############# Transfer schemes in connection with integrated care boards

19.2.14Z28

19.2.14Z28.1

NHS England may, in connection with the abolition of a clinical commissioning
group under section 14Z27, make a scheme for the transfer of the group’s
property, rights or liabilities to NHS England or an integrated care board.

19.2.14Z28.2

NHS England may, in connection with the establishment of an integrated care
board, make a scheme for the transfer of property, rights or liabilities to
the board from—

19.2.14Z28.2.a

NHS England,

19.2.14Z28.2.b

an NHS trust established under section 25,

19.2.14Z28.2.c

an NHS foundation trust, or

19.2.14Z28.2.d

a Special Health Authority established under section 28.

19.2.14Z28.3

NHS England may, in connection with the variation of the constitution of an
integrated care board or the abolition of an integrated care board, make a
scheme for the transfer of the board’s property, rights or liabilities to NHS
England or an integrated care board.

19.2.14Z28.4

The reference in subsection  (3)  to the variation of the constitution of an
integrated care board is to its variation by order under section 14Z25 or
under provision included in its constitution by virtue of paragraph 14 of
Schedule 1B.

19.2.14Z28.5

NHS England must exercise its powers under subsection (1) or (3) so as to
ensure that—

19.2.14Z28.5.a

on the abolition of a clinical commissioning group whose area coincides with
that of an integrated care board, all of the group’s property, rights and
liabilities (other than criminal liabilities) are transferred to that board;

19.2.14Z28.5.b

on the abolition of a clinical commissioning group whose area does not
coincide with that of an integrated care board, all of the group’s property,
rights and liabilities (other than criminal liabilities) are transferred to
one or more integrated care boards;

19.2.14Z28.5.c

on the abolition of an integrated care board, all of the board’s liabilities
(other than criminal liabilities) are transferred.

19.2.14Z28.6

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

19.2.14Z28.6.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

19.2.14Z28.6.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

19.2.14Z28.6.c

criminal liabilities.

19.2.14Z28.7

A transfer scheme may—

19.2.14Z28.7.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

19.2.14Z28.7.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, on behalf of or
in relation to the transferor in respect of anything transferred;

19.2.14Z28.7.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

19.2.14Z28.7.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

19.2.14Z28.7.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

19.2.14Z28.7.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

19.2.14Z28.7.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

19.2.14Z28.8

A transfer scheme may provide—

19.2.14Z28.8.a

for modifications by agreement;

19.2.14Z28.8.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

19.2.14Z28.9

In subsection  (7)(f) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

19.2.14Z28.10

In this section—

19.2.14Z28.10.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

19.2.14Z28.10.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

############ Constitution: publication

############# Duty for integrated care board to publish constitution

19.2.14Z29

Each integrated care board must publish its constitution (as varied from time
to time by order under section  14Z25  or under provision included in its
constitution by virtue of paragraph  15  of Schedule 1B).

############ Conflicts of interest

############# Register of interests and management of conflicts of interests

19.2.14Z30

19.2.14Z30.1

Each integrated care board must maintain one or more registers of the
interests of—

19.2.14Z30.1.a

members of the board,

19.2.14Z30.1.b

members of its committees or sub-committees, and

19.2.14Z30.1.c

its employees.

19.2.14Z30.2

Each integrated care board must publish the registers maintained under
subsection  (1)  or make arrangements to ensure that members of the public
have access to the registers on request.

19.2.14Z30.3

Each integrated care board must make arrangements to ensure—

19.2.14Z30.3.a

that a person mentioned in subsection  (1)  declares any conflict or potential
conflict of interest that the person has in relation to a decision to be made
in the exercise of the commissioning functions of the integrated care board,

19.2.14Z30.3.b

that any such declaration is made as soon as practicable after the person
becomes aware of the conflict or potential conflict and, in any event, within
28 days of the person becoming aware, and

19.2.14Z30.3.c

that any such declaration is included in the registers maintained under
subsection  (1) .

19.2.14Z30.4

Each integrated care board must make arrangements for managing conflicts and
potential conflicts of interest in such a way as to ensure that they do not,
and do not appear to, affect the integrity of the board’s decision-making
processes.

19.2.14Z30.5

For the purposes of this section, the commissioning functions of an integrated
care board are the functions of the board in arranging for the provision of
services as part of the health service.

19.3

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection (1),
before paragraph (a) insert—

19.3.za

section  14Z25 (2) ,

.

19.4

Schedule 2 inserts into the National Health Service Act 2006 a new Schedule 1B
(integrated care boards: constitution etc) and contains a consequential
amendment.

##### People for whom integrated care boards have responsibility

20

20.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

20.2

After section  14Z30  (inserted by section 19 of this Act) insert—

########### People for whom integrated care board has responsibility

############ People for whom integrated care board has responsibility

20.2.14Z31

20.2.14Z31.1

NHS England must from time to time publish rules for determining the group of
people for whom each integrated care board has core responsibility.

20.2.14Z31.2

The rules must ensure that the following are allocated to at least one group—

20.2.14Z31.2.a

everyone who is provided with NHS primary medical services, and

20.2.14Z31.2.b

everyone who is usually resident in England and is not provided with NHS
primary medical services.

20.2.14Z31.3

Regulations may create exceptions to subsection  (2)  in relation to people of
a prescribed description (which may include a description framed by reference
to the primary medical services with which the people are provided).

20.2.14Z31.4

References in this Act to the group of people for whom an integrated care
board has core responsibility are to be read in accordance with this section.

20.2.14Z31.5

In this section, “ NHS primary medical services ” means services provided by a
person, other than NHS England or an integrated care board, in pursuance of—

20.2.14Z31.5.a

a general medical services contract to provide primary medical services of a
prescribed description,

20.2.14Z31.5.b

arrangements under section 83(2) for the provision of primary medical services
of a prescribed description, or

20.2.14Z31.5.c

section 92 arrangements for the provision of primary medical services of a
prescribed description.

20.3

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions)—

20.3.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph  (za)  (inserted by section 19 of this Act)
insert—

20.3.a.zb

section  14Z31 (1) ,

;

20.3.b

in subsection (6), after paragraph (zb) insert—

20.3.b.zba

regulations under section  14Z31 (3) ,

.

20.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

20.4.a

substitute the following section for section  14Z31  of the National Health
Service Act 2006 (as inserted by subsection  (2)  of this section)—

############# People for whom integrated care board has responsibility

20.4.a.14Z31

20.4.a.14Z31.1

References in this Act to the group of people for whom an integrated care
board has core responsibility are to the people who usually reside in its
area.

20.4.a.14Z31.2

Regulations may create exceptions to subsection  (1)  in relation to people of
a prescribed description.

,

20.4.b

repeal section 272(1) (zb)  of that Act (as inserted by subsection  (3)  of
this section), and

20.4.c

amend section 272(6) (zba)  of that Act (as inserted by subsection  (3)  of
this section), so as to substitute  “ 14Z31 (2) ”  for “ 14Z31 (3) ”.

#### Integrated care boards: functions

##### Commissioning hospital and other health services

21

For sections 3 and 3A of the National Health Service Act 2006 substitute—

######### Duties of integrated care boards as to commissioning certain health services

21.3

21.3.1

An integrated care board must arrange for the provision of the following to
such extent as it considers necessary to meet the reasonable requirements of
the people for whom it has responsibility—

21.3.1.a

hospital accommodation,

21.3.1.b

other accommodation for the purpose of any service provided under this Act,

21.3.1.c

medical services other than primary medical services (for primary medical
services, see Part 4),

21.3.1.d

dental services other than primary dental services (for primary dental
services, see Part 5),

21.3.1.e

ophthalmic services other than primary ophthalmic services (for primary
ophthalmic services, see Part 6),

21.3.1.f

nursing and ambulance services,

21.3.1.g

such other services or facilities for the care of pregnant women, women who
are breastfeeding and young children as the board considers are appropriate as
part of the health service,

21.3.1.h

such other services or facilities for palliative care as the board considers
are appropriate as part of the health service,

21.3.1.i

such other services or facilities for the prevention of illness, the care of
persons suffering from illness and the after-care of persons who have suffered
from illness as the board considers are appropriate as part of the health
service, and

21.3.1.j

such other services or facilities as are required for the diagnosis and
treatment of illness.

21.3.2

For the purposes of this section an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

21.3.2.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

21.3.2.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed service or facility).

21.3.3

The duty imposed on an integrated care board by subsection  (1)  to arrange
for the provision of services or facilities does not apply to the extent that—

21.3.3.a

NHS England has a duty to arrange for their provision;

21.3.3.b

another integrated care board has a duty to arrange for their provision by
virtue of subsection  (2)(b) .

21.3.4

In exercising its functions under this section, an integrated care board must
act consistently with—

21.3.4.a

the discharge by the Secretary of State and NHS England of their duty under
section 1(1) (duty to promote a comprehensive health service), and

21.3.4.b

the objectives and requirements for the time being specified in the mandate
published under section 13A.

######### Power of integrated care boards to commission certain health services

21.3A

21.3A.1

Each integrated care board may arrange for the provision of such services or
facilities as it considers appropriate for the purposes of the health service
that relate to securing improvement—

21.3A.1.a

in the physical and mental health of the people for whom it has
responsibility, or

21.3A.1.b

in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness in those people.

21.3A.2

For the purposes of this section an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

21.3A.2.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

21.3A.2.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed service or facility).

21.3A.3

An integrated care board may not arrange for the provision of a service or
facility under subsection (1) if NHS England has a duty to arrange for its
provision by virtue of section 3B or 4.

21.3A.4

In exercising its functions under this section, an integrated care board must
act consistently with—

21.3A.4.a

the discharge by the Secretary of State and NHS England of their duty under
section 1(1) (duty to promote a comprehensive health service), and

21.3A.4.b

the objectives and requirements for the time being specified in the mandate
published under section 13A.

##### Commissioning primary care services etc

22

Schedule 3 confers functions on integrated care boards in relation to primary
care services and contains other amendments relating to primary care services.

##### Transfer schemes in connection with transfer of primary care functions

23

23.1

NHS England may, in connection with the amendments made by Schedule 3, make
one or more schemes for the transfer of its property, rights and liabilities
to an integrated care board.

23.2

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

23.2.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

23.2.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

23.2.c

criminal liabilities.

23.3

A transfer scheme may—

23.3.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

23.3.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, on behalf of or
in relation to the transferor in respect of anything transferred;

23.3.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

23.3.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

23.3.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

23.3.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

23.3.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

23.4

A transfer scheme may provide—

23.4.a

for modifications by agreement;

23.4.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

23.5

In subsection  (3)(f) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

23.6

For the purposes of this section—

23.6.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

23.6.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

##### Commissioning arrangements: conferral of discretions

24

In section 12ZA of the National Health Service Act 2006 (commissioning
arrangements by NHS England and integrated care boards), after subsection (2)
insert—

24.2A

The arrangements may confer discretions on a person with whom they are made in
relation to anything to be provided under the arrangements.

##### General functions

25

25.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

25.2

After section  14Z31  (inserted by section 20 of this Act) insert—

########### General duties of integrated care boards

############ Duty to promote NHS Constitution

25.2.14Z32

25.2.14Z32.1

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions—

25.2.14Z32.1.a

act with a view to securing that health services are provided in a way which
promotes the NHS Constitution, and

25.2.14Z32.1.b

promote awareness of the NHS Constitution among patients, staff and members of
the public.

25.2.14Z32.2

In this section, “ patients ” and “ staff ” have the same meaning as in
Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Health Act 2009 (see section 3(7) of that Act).

############ Duty as to effectiveness, efficiency etc

25.2.14Z33

Each integrated care board must exercise its functions effectively,
efficiently and economically.

############ Duty as to improvement in quality of services

25.2.14Z34

25.2.14Z34.1

Each integrated care board must exercise its functions with a view to securing
continuous improvement in the quality of services provided to individuals for
or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness.

25.2.14Z34.2

In discharging its duty under subsection  (1) , an integrated care board must,
in particular, act with a view to securing continuous improvement in the
outcomes that are achieved from the provision of the services.

25.2.14Z34.3

The outcomes relevant for the purposes of subsection  (2)  include, in
particular, outcomes which show—

25.2.14Z34.3.a

the effectiveness of the services,

25.2.14Z34.3.b

the safety of the services, and

25.2.14Z34.3.c

the quality of the experience undergone by patients.

############ Duties as to reducing inequalities

25.2.14Z35

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, have regard
to the need to—

25.2.14Z35.a

reduce inequalities between persons with respect to their ability to access
health services, and

25.2.14Z35.b

reduce inequalities between patients with respect to the outcomes achieved for
them by the provision of health services (including the outcomes described in
section  14Z34 (3) ).

############ Duty to promote involvement of each patient

25.2.14Z36

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, promote the
involvement of patients, and their carers and representatives (if any), in
decisions which relate to—

25.2.14Z36.a

the prevention or diagnosis of illness in the patients, or

25.2.14Z36.b

their care or treatment.

############ Duty as to patient choice

25.2.14Z37

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, act with a
view to enabling patients to make choices with respect to aspects of health
services provided to them.

############ Duty to obtain appropriate advice

25.2.14Z38

Each integrated care board must obtain advice appropriate for enabling it
effectively to discharge its functions from persons who (taken together) have
a broad range of professional expertise in—

25.2.14Z38.a

the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness, and

25.2.14Z38.b

the protection or improvement of public health.

############ Duty to promote innovation

25.2.14Z39

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, promote
innovation in the provision of health services (including innovation in the
arrangements made for their provision).

############ Duty in respect of research

25.2.14Z40

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, facilitate
or otherwise promote—

25.2.14Z40.a

research on matters relevant to the health service, and

25.2.14Z40.b

the use in the health service of evidence obtained from research.

############ Duty to promote education and training

25.2.14Z41

Each integrated care board must, in exercising its functions, have regard to
the need to promote education and training for the persons mentioned in
section 1F(1) so as to assist the Secretary of State and Health Education
England in the discharge of the duty under that section.

############ Duty to promote integration

25.2.14Z42

25.2.14Z42.1

Each integrated care board must exercise its functions with a view to securing
that health services are provided in an integrated way where it considers that
this would—

25.2.14Z42.1.a

improve the quality of those services (including the outcomes that are
achieved from their provision),

25.2.14Z42.1.b

reduce inequalities between persons with respect to their ability to access
those services, or

25.2.14Z42.1.c

reduce inequalities between persons with respect to the outcomes achieved for
them by the provision of those services.

25.2.14Z42.2

Each integrated care board must exercise its functions with a view to securing
that the provision of health services is integrated with the provision of
health-related services or social care services where it considers that this
would—

25.2.14Z42.2.a

improve the quality of the health services (including the outcomes that are
achieved from the provision of those services),

25.2.14Z42.2.b

reduce inequalities between persons with respect to their ability to access
those services, or

25.2.14Z42.2.c

reduce inequalities between persons with respect to the outcomes achieved for
them by the provision of those services.

25.2.14Z42.3

In this section—

      “ health-related services ” means services that may have an effect on
the health of individuals but are not health services or social care services;
“ social care services ” means services that are provided in pursuance of the
social services functions of local authorities (within the meaning of the
Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 or for the purposes of the Social
Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014).

25.2.14Z42.4

For the purposes of this section, the provision of housing accommodation is a
health-related service.

############ Duty to have regard to wider effect of decisions

25.2.14Z43

25.2.14Z43.1

In making a decision about the exercise of its functions, an integrated care
board must have regard to all likely effects of the decision in relation to—

25.2.14Z43.1.a

the health and well-being of the people of England;

25.2.14Z43.1.b

the quality of services provided to individuals—

25.2.14Z43.1.b.i

by relevant bodies, or

25.2.14Z43.1.b.ii

in pursuance of arrangements made by relevant bodies,

for or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness,
as part of the health service in England;

25.2.14Z43.1.c

efficiency and sustainability in relation to the use of resources by relevant
bodies for the purposes of the health service in England.

25.2.14Z43.2

In subsection  (1) —

25.2.14Z43.2.a

the reference to a decision does not include a reference to a decision about
the services to be provided to a particular individual for or in connection
with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness;

25.2.14Z43.2.b

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the health and well-
being of the people of England includes a reference to its effects in relation
to inequalities between the people of England with respect to their health and
well-being;

25.2.14Z43.2.c

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the quality of services
provided to individuals includes a reference to its effects in relation to
inequalities between individuals with respect to the benefits that they can
obtain from those services.

25.2.14Z43.3

In discharging the duty under this section, integrated care boards must have
regard to guidance published by NHS England under section 13NB.

25.2.14Z43.4

In this section “ relevant bodies ” means—

25.2.14Z43.4.a

NHS England,

25.2.14Z43.4.b

integrated care boards,

25.2.14Z43.4.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

25.2.14Z43.4.d

NHS foundation trusts.

############ Duties as to climate change etc

25.2.14Z44

25.2.14Z44.1

Each integrated care board must, in the exercise of its functions, have regard
to the need to—

25.2.14Z44.1.a

contribute towards compliance with—

25.2.14Z44.1.a.i

section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target), and

25.2.14Z44.1.a.ii

section 5 of the Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets), and

25.2.14Z44.1.b

adapt to any current or predicted impacts of climate change identified in the
most recent report under section 56 of the Climate Change Act 2008.

25.2.14Z44.2

In discharging the duty under this section, integrated care boards must have
regard to guidance published by NHS England under section 13ND.

########### Involvement of the public

############ Public involvement and consultation by integrated care boards

25.2.14Z45

25.2.14Z45.1

This section applies in relation to any health services which are, or are to
be, provided pursuant to arrangements made by an integrated care board in the
exercise of its functions (“commissioning arrangements”).

25.2.14Z45.2

The integrated care board must make arrangements to secure that individuals to
whom the services are being or may be provided, and their carers and
representatives (if any), are involved (whether by being consulted or provided
with information or in other ways)—

25.2.14Z45.2.a

in the planning of the commissioning arrangements by the integrated care
board,

25.2.14Z45.2.b

in the development and consideration of proposals by the integrated care board
for changes in the commissioning arrangements where the implementation of the
proposals would have an impact on—

25.2.14Z45.2.b.i

the manner in which the services are delivered to the individuals (at the
point when the service is received by them), or

25.2.14Z45.2.b.ii

the range of health services available to them, and

25.2.14Z45.2.c

in decisions of the integrated care board affecting the operation of the
commissioning arrangements where the implementation of the decisions would (if
made) have such an impact.

25.2.14Z45.3

This section does not require an integrated care board to make arrangements in
relation to matters to which a trust special administrator’s draft or final
report under section 65F or 65I relates before—

25.2.14Z45.3.a

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS trust, NHS
England and the Secretary of State have made their decisions under section
65K(1) and (2), or

25.2.14Z45.3.b

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS foundation trust,
the Secretary of State is satisfied as mentioned in section 65KB(1) or 65KD(1)
or makes a decision under section 65KD(9).

########### Joint exercise of functions with Local Health Boards

############ Joint exercise of functions with Local Health Boards

25.2.14Z46

25.2.14Z46.1

Regulations may provide for any prescribed functions of an integrated care
board to be exercised jointly with a Local Health Board.

25.2.14Z46.2

The regulations may permit or require any functions that are exercisable
jointly by an integrated care board and a Local Health Board by virtue of the
regulations to be exercised by a joint committee of those bodies.

25.2.14Z46.3

Arrangements made by virtue of this section do not affect the liability of an
integrated care board for the exercise of any of its functions.

########### Additional powers of integrated care boards

############ Raising additional income

25.2.14Z47

25.2.14Z47.1

An integrated care board has power to do anything specified in section
7(2)(a), (b) and (e) to (h) of the Health and Medicines Act 1988 (provision of
goods etc) for the purpose of making additional income available for improving
the health service.

25.2.14Z47.2

An integrated care board may exercise a power conferred by subsection  (1)
only to the extent that its exercise does not to any significant extent
interfere with the exercise by the board of its other functions.

############ Power to make grants

25.2.14Z48

25.2.14Z48.1

An integrated care board may make payments—

25.2.14Z48.1.a

by way of grant to any of its partner NHS trusts or NHS foundation trusts;

25.2.14Z48.1.b

by way of grant or loan to a voluntary organisation which provides or arranges
for the provision of services which are similar to the services in respect of
which the integrated care board has functions.

25.2.14Z48.2

The payments may be made subject to such terms as the integrated care board
considers appropriate.

25.2.14Z48.3

For the purposes of this Act an NHS trust or NHS foundation trust is a
“partner” of an integrated care board if the trust—

25.2.14Z48.3.a

provides services for the purposes of the health service within the integrated
care board’s area, and

25.2.14Z48.3.b

has the function, under the integrated care board’s constitution, of
participating in the nomination of members as a result of falling within a
description prescribed for the purposes paragraph  8(2)(a)  of Schedule 1B.

########### Experience of members

############ Duty to keep experience of members under review etc

25.2.14Z49

An integrated care board must—

25.2.14Z49.a

keep under review the skills, knowledge and experience that it considers
necessary for members of the board to possess (when taken together) in order
for the board effectively to carry out its functions, and

25.2.14Z49.b

if it considers that the board as constituted lacks the necessary skills,
knowledge and experience, take such steps as it considers necessary to address
or mitigate that shortcoming.

########### NHS England’s functions in relation to integrated care boards

############ Responsibility for payments to providers

25.2.14Z50

25.2.14Z50.1

NHS England may publish a document specifying—

25.2.14Z50.1.a

circumstances in which an integrated care board is liable to make a payment to
a person in respect of services provided by that person in pursuance of
arrangements made by another integrated care board in the discharge of
commissioning functions, and

25.2.14Z50.1.b

how the amount of any such payment is to be determined.

25.2.14Z50.2

An integrated care board is required to make payments in accordance with any
document published under subsection (1).

25.2.14Z50.3

Where an integrated care board is required to make a payment by virtue of
subsection (2), no other integrated care board is liable to make it.

25.2.14Z50.4

Accordingly, any obligation of another integrated care board to make the
payment ceases to have effect.

25.2.14Z50.5

Any sums payable by virtue of subsection (2) may be recovered summarily as a
civil debt (but this does not affect any other method of recovery).

25.2.14Z50.6

NHS England may publish guidance for integrated care boards for the purpose of
assisting them in understanding and applying any document published under
subsection (1).

25.2.14Z50.7

In this section “ commissioning functions ” means the functions of integrated
care boards in arranging for the provision of services as part of the health
service.

############ Guidance by NHS England

25.2.14Z51

25.2.14Z51.1

NHS England must publish guidance for integrated care boards on the discharge
of their functions.

25.2.14Z51.2

Each integrated care board must have regard to guidance under this section.

########### Forward planning and reports

############ Joint forward plans for integrated care board and its partners

25.2.14Z52

25.2.14Z52.1

Before the start of each financial year, an integrated care board and its
partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts must prepare a plan setting out
how they propose to exercise their functions in the next five years.

25.2.14Z52.2

The plan must, in particular—

25.2.14Z52.2.a

describe the health services for which the integrated care board proposes to
make arrangements in the exercise of its functions by virtue of this Act;

25.2.14Z52.2.b

explain how the integrated care board proposes to discharge its duties under—

25.2.14Z52.2.b.i

sections  14Z34  to  14Z45  (general duties of integrated care boards), and

25.2.14Z52.2.b.ii

sections 223GB to 223N (financial duties);

25.2.14Z52.2.c

set out any steps that the integrated care board proposes to take to implement
any joint local health and wellbeing strategy to which it is required to have
regard under section 116B(1) of the Local Government and Public Involvement in
Health Act 2007;

25.2.14Z52.2.d

set out any steps that the integrated care board proposes to take to address
the particular needs of children and young persons under the age of 25;

25.2.14Z52.2.e

set out any steps that the integrated care board proposes to take to address
the particular needs of victims of abuse (including domestic abuse and sexual
abuse, whether of children or adults).

25.2.14Z52.3

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must publish the plan.

25.2.14Z52.4

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must give a copy of the plan to—

25.2.14Z52.4.a

the integrated care partnership for the board’s area,

25.2.14Z52.4.b

each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board, and

25.2.14Z52.4.c

NHS England.

25.2.14Z52.5

NHS England may give a direction as to the date by which subsection  (4)  must
be complied with.

25.2.14Z52.6

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must have regard to the plan under subsection  (1) .

25.2.14Z52.7

In this Chapter “ relevant Health and Wellbeing Board ”, in relation to an
integrated care board (or an integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts
and NHS foundation trusts), means a Health and Wellbeing Board established by
a local authority whose area coincides with, or includes the whole or any part
of, the area of the integrated care board.

25.2.14Z52.8

In this Act “ financial year ”, in relation to an integrated care board,
means—

25.2.14Z52.8.a

the period beginning with the date on which the integrated care board is
established and ending with the 31 March following that date, and

25.2.14Z52.8.b

each successive period of twelve months.

############ Revision of forward plans

25.2.14Z53

25.2.14Z53.1

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
may revise a plan published under section  14Z52 .

25.2.14Z53.2

If the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts revise the plan in a way that they consider to be significant, section
14Z52 (3)  and  (4)  apply in relation to the revised plan as they applied in
relation to the original plan.

25.2.14Z53.3

If the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts revise the plan in any other way they must—

25.2.14Z53.3.a

publish a document setting out the changes, and

25.2.14Z53.3.b

give a copy of the document to—

25.2.14Z53.3.b.i

the integrated care partnership for the board’s area,

25.2.14Z53.3.b.ii

each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board, and

25.2.14Z53.3.b.iii

NHS England.

############ Consultation about forward plans

25.2.14Z54

25.2.14Z54.1

This section applies where an integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts
and NHS foundation trusts are—

25.2.14Z54.1.a

preparing a plan under section  14Z52 , or

25.2.14Z54.1.b

revising a plan under section  14Z53  in a way that they consider to be
significant.

25.2.14Z54.2

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must consult—

25.2.14Z54.2.a

the group of people for whom the integrated care board has core
responsibility, and

25.2.14Z54.2.b

any other persons they consider it appropriate to consult.

25.2.14Z54.3

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must involve each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board in preparing or revising
the plan.

25.2.14Z54.4

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must, in particular—

25.2.14Z54.4.a

give each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board a draft of the plan or (as the
case may be) the plan as revised, and

25.2.14Z54.4.b

consult each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board on whether the draft takes
proper account of each joint local health and wellbeing strategy published by
it which relates to the period (or any part of the period) to which the plan
relates.

25.2.14Z54.5

Where a Health and Wellbeing Board is consulted under subsection  (4)(b) —

25.2.14Z54.5.a

it must respond with its opinion on the matter mentioned there;

25.2.14Z54.5.b

it may also give that opinion to NHS England.

25.2.14Z54.6

Where a Health and Wellbeing Board gives its opinion to NHS England under
subsection  (5)(b)  it must inform the integrated care board and its partner
NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts that it has done so (unless it informed
them, in advance, that it was planning to do so).

25.2.14Z54.7

If an integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts revise or further revise a draft after it has been given to each
relevant Health and Wellbeing Board under subsection  (4) , subsections  (4)
and  (5)  apply in relation to the revised draft as they applied in relation
to the original draft.

25.2.14Z54.8

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must include in a plan published under section  14Z52 (3) —

25.2.14Z54.8.a

a summary of the views expressed by anyone consulted under subsection  (2) ,

25.2.14Z54.8.b

an explanation of how they took account of those views, and

25.2.14Z54.8.c

a statement of the final opinion of each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board
consulted in relation to the plan under subsection  (4) .

25.2.14Z54.9

In this section, “ joint local health and wellbeing strategy ” means a
strategy under section 116A of the Local Government and Public Involvement in
Health Act 2007.

############ Opinion of Health and Wellbeing Boards on forward plan

25.2.14Z55

25.2.14Z55.1

A relevant Health and Wellbeing Board—

25.2.14Z55.1.a

may give NHS England its opinion on whether a plan published by an integrated
care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts under section
14Z52 (3)  takes proper account of each joint local health and wellbeing
strategy published by the Health and Wellbeing Board which relates to the
period (or any part of the period) to which the plan relates, and

25.2.14Z55.1.b

if it does so, must give the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts
and NHS foundation trusts a copy of its opinion.

25.2.14Z55.2

In this section, “ joint local health and wellbeing strategy ” has the same
meaning as in section  14Z54 (9) .

############ Joint capital resource use plan for integrated care board and its partners

25.2.14Z56

25.2.14Z56.1

Before the start of each financial year, an integrated care board and its
partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts must prepare a plan setting out
their planned capital resource use.

25.2.14Z56.2

The plan must relate to such period as may be specified in a direction by the
Secretary of State.

25.2.14Z56.3

The Secretary of State must publish any direction under subsection  (2) .

25.2.14Z56.4

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must publish the plan.

25.2.14Z56.5

The integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must give a copy of the plan to—

25.2.14Z56.5.a

the integrated care partnership for the board’s area,

25.2.14Z56.5.b

each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board, and

25.2.14Z56.5.c

NHS England.

25.2.14Z56.6

NHS England may give a direction as to the date by which subsection  (5)  must
be complied with.

25.2.14Z56.7

NHS England may publish guidance about the discharge by an integrated care
board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts of their functions
under this section.

25.2.14Z56.8

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must have regard to any guidance published under subsection  (7) .

25.2.14Z56.9

NHS England may give directions, in relation to a financial year—

25.2.14Z56.9.a

specifying descriptions of resources which must, or must not, be treated as
capital resources for the purposes of this section;

25.2.14Z56.9.b

specifying uses of capital resources which must, or must not, be taken into
account for the purposes of this section.

25.2.14Z56.10

The reference in subsection  (1)  to the use of capital resources is a
reference to its expenditure, consumption or reduction in value.

############ Revision of joint capital resource use plans

25.2.14Z57

25.2.14Z57.1

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
may revise a plan published under section  14Z56 .

25.2.14Z57.2

If the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts revise the plan in a way that they consider to be significant, section
14Z56 (4)  and  (5)  apply in relation to the revised plan as they applied in
relation to the original plan.

25.2.14Z57.3

If the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts revise the plan in any other way, they must—

25.2.14Z57.3.a

publish a document setting out the changes, and

25.2.14Z57.3.b

give a copy of the document to—

25.2.14Z57.3.b.i

the integrated care partnership for the board’s area,

25.2.14Z57.3.b.ii

each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board, and

25.2.14Z57.3.b.iii

NHS England.

############ Annual report

25.2.14Z58

25.2.14Z58.1

An integrated care board must, in each financial year, prepare a report (an
“annual report”) on how it has discharged its functions in the previous
financial year.

25.2.14Z58.2

An annual report must, in particular—

25.2.14Z58.2.a

explain how the integrated care board has discharged its duties under sections
14Z34  to  14Z45  and  14Z49  (general duties of integrated care boards),

25.2.14Z58.2.b

review the extent to which the board has exercised its functions in accordance
with the plans published under—

      section  14Z52  (forward plan), and           section  14Z56  (capital
resource use plan),

25.2.14Z58.2.c

review the extent to which the board has exercised its functions consistently
with NHS England’s views set out in the latest statement published under
section 13SA(1) (views about how functions relating to inequalities
information should be exercised), and

25.2.14Z58.2.d

review any steps that the board has taken to implement any joint local health
and wellbeing strategy to which it was required to have regard under section
116B(1) of the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007.

25.2.14Z58.3

In undertaking the review required by subsection  (2)(d) , an integrated care
board must consult each relevant Health and Wellbeing Board.

25.2.14Z58.4

An annual report must include—

25.2.14Z58.4.a

a statement of the amount of expenditure incurred by the integrated care board
during the financial year in relation to mental health,

25.2.14Z58.4.b

a calculation of the proportion of the expenditure incurred by the integrated
care board during the financial year that relates to mental health, and

25.2.14Z58.4.c

an explanation of the statement and calculation.

25.2.14Z58.5

NHS England may give directions to integrated care boards as to the form and
content of an annual report.

25.2.14Z58.6

An integrated care board must—

25.2.14Z58.6.a

give a copy of its annual report to NHS England before the date specified by
NHS England in a direction, and

25.2.14Z58.6.b

publish a copy of the annual report.

########### Performance assessment of integrated care boards

############ Performance assessment of integrated care boards

25.2.14Z59

25.2.14Z59.1

NHS England must conduct a performance assessment of each integrated care
board in respect of each financial year.

25.2.14Z59.2

A performance assessment is an assessment of how well the integrated care
board has discharged its functions during that year.

25.2.14Z59.3

The assessment must, in particular, include an assessment of how well the
integrated care board has discharged its duties under—

25.2.14Z59.3.a

section  14Z34  (improvement in quality of services),

25.2.14Z59.3.b

section  14Z35  (reducing inequalities),

25.2.14Z59.3.c

section  14Z38  (obtaining appropriate advice),

25.2.14Z59.3.d

section  14Z40  (duty in respect of research),

25.2.14Z59.3.e

section  14Z43  (duty to have regard to effect of decisions),

25.2.14Z59.3.f

section  14Z45  (public involvement and consultation),

25.2.14Z59.3.g

sections  223GB  to  223N  (financial duties), and

25.2.14Z59.3.h

section 116B(1) of the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act
2007 (duty to have regard to assessments and strategies).

25.2.14Z59.4

In conducting a performance assessment, NHS England must consult each relevant
Health and Wellbeing Board as to its views on any steps that the board has
taken to implement any joint local health and wellbeing strategy to which the
board was required to have regard under section 116B(1) of that Act of 2007.

25.2.14Z59.5

In conducting a performance assessment, NHS England must, in particular, have
regard to—

25.2.14Z59.5.a

any guidance published by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
section, and

25.2.14Z59.5.b

any guidance published under section  14Z51 .

25.2.14Z59.6

NHS England must publish a report in respect of each financial year containing
a summary of the results of each performance assessment conducted by NHS
England in respect of that year.

########### Power of NHS England to obtain information

############ Power of NHS England to obtain information

25.2.14Z60

25.2.14Z60.1

NHS England may require an integrated care board to provide NHS England with
information.

25.2.14Z60.2

The information must be provided in such form, and at such time or within such
period, as NHS England may require.

########### Intervention powers

############ Power to give directions to integrated care boards

25.2.14Z61

25.2.14Z61.1

This section applies if NHS England is satisfied that—

25.2.14Z61.1.a

an integrated care board is failing or has failed to discharge any of its
functions, or

25.2.14Z61.1.b

there is a significant risk that an integrated care board will fail to do so.

25.2.14Z61.2

NHS England may direct the integrated care board to discharge such of those
functions in such manner and within such period or periods as may be specified
in the direction.

25.2.14Z61.3

NHS England may direct—

25.2.14Z61.3.a

the integrated care board, or

25.2.14Z61.3.b

the chief executive of the integrated care board,

to cease to perform any functions for such period or periods as may be
specified in the direction.

25.2.14Z61.4

NHS England may—

25.2.14Z61.4.a

terminate the appointment of the integrated care board’s chief executive, and

25.2.14Z61.4.b

direct the chair of the board as to which individual to appoint as a
replacement and on what terms.

25.2.14Z61.5

Where a direction is given under subsection  (3)(a)  NHS England may—

25.2.14Z61.5.a

exercise, on behalf of the integrated care board, any of the functions that
are the subject of the direction;

25.2.14Z61.5.b

direct another integrated care board to perform any of those functions on
behalf of the integrated care board, in such manner and within such period or
periods as may be specified in the direction.

25.2.14Z61.6

A direction under subsection  (5)(b)  may include provision prohibiting or
restricting the integrated care board from making delegation arrangements in
relation to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of the direction.

25.2.14Z61.7

In subsection  (6)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by a
person for the exercise of a function by someone else.

25.2.14Z61.8

Where a direction is given under subsection  (3)(b)  NHS England may—

25.2.14Z61.8.a

exercise, on behalf of the chief executive, any of the functions that are the
subject of the direction;

25.2.14Z61.8.b

direct the chief executive of another integrated care board to perform any of
those functions on behalf of the chief executive, in such manner and within
such period or periods as may be specified in the direction.

25.2.14Z61.9

For the purposes of this section—

25.2.14Z61.9.a

a failure to discharge a function includes a failure to discharge it properly,
and

25.2.14Z61.9.b

a failure to discharge a function properly includes a failure to discharge it
consistently with what NHS England considers to be the interests of the health
service.

############ Section 

25.2.14Z62

25.2.14Z62.1

Before exercising the power conferred by section  14Z61 (5)(b)  or  (8)(b)
NHS England must consult the integrated care board to which it is proposing to
give the direction or to whose chief executive it is proposing to give the
direction.

25.2.14Z62.2

Where a direction is given under section  14Z61 (3)(b)  to the chief executive
of an integrated care board, that board must co-operate with any chief
executive to whom a direction is given under subsection  (8)(b) .

########### Disclosure of information

############ Permitted disclosures of information

25.2.14Z63

25.2.14Z63.1

An integrated care board may disclose information obtained by it in the
exercise of its functions if—

25.2.14Z63.1.a

the information has previously been lawfully disclosed to the public,

25.2.14Z63.1.b

the disclosure is made under or pursuant to regulations under section 113 or
114 of the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003
(complaints about health care or social services),

25.2.14Z63.1.c

the disclosure is made in accordance with any enactment or court order,

25.2.14Z63.1.d

the disclosure is necessary or expedient for the purposes of protecting the
welfare of any individual,

25.2.14Z63.1.e

the disclosure is made to any person in circumstances where it is necessary or
expedient for the person to have the information for the purpose of exercising
functions of that person under any enactment,

25.2.14Z63.1.f

the disclosure is made for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of any of
the integrated care board’s functions,

25.2.14Z63.1.g

the disclosure is made in connection with the investigation of a criminal
offence (whether or not in the United Kingdom), or

25.2.14Z63.1.h

the disclosure is made for the purpose of criminal proceedings (whether or not
in the United Kingdom).

25.2.14Z63.2

Subsection  (1)(a)  to  (c)  and  (h)  have effect notwithstanding any rule of
common law which would otherwise prohibit or restrict the disclosure.

########### Interpretation

############ Interpretation

25.2.14Z64

In this Chapter—

      “ the health service ” means the health service in England;           “
health services ” means services provided as part of the health service;
“ integrated care partnership ” has the meaning given by section  116ZA (1)
of the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007;           “
relevant Health and Wellbeing Board ”, in relation to an integrated care
board, has the meaning given by section  14Z52 (7) .

25.3

In section 48 (power to obtain information from NHS foundation trust)—

25.3.a

after subsection (1) insert—

25.3.a.1A

An integrated care board may require any of its partner NHS foundation trusts
to provide it with any information that it requires.

;

25.3.b

for subsection (2) substitute—

25.3.b.2

Information required under this section must be provided in such form, and at
such time or within such period, as may be specified by the person imposing
the requirement.

25.4

In Schedule 4 (NHS trusts: constitution etc), in paragraph 13—

25.4.a

the existing provision becomes sub-paragraph (1);

25.4.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

25.4.b.2

An integrated care board may require any of its partner NHS trusts to provide
it with any information that it requires.

25.4.b.3

Information required under sub-paragraph (2) must be provided in such form,
and at such time or within such period, as may be specified by the integrated
care board.

#### Integrated care partnerships

##### Integrated care partnerships and strategies

26

26.1

The Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

26.2

In section 104 (interpretation: partner authorities), in subsection (2), for
paragraph (ja) substitute—

26.2.ja

an integrated care board;

.

26.3

In section 116 (health and social care: joint strategic needs assessments)—

26.3.a

in subsection (4), for paragraph (b) substitute—

26.3.a.b

each of its partner integrated care boards,

;

26.3.b

after subsection (5) insert—

26.3.b.5A

The responsible local authority must give a copy of each assessment of
relevant needs prepared under this section to any integrated care partnership
established under section 116ZA whose area coincides with or includes the
whole or part of the area of the responsible local authority.

;

26.3.c

in subsections (6) and (7), for “clinical commissioning group”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” ;

26.3.d

in subsection (8), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” ;

26.3.e

in subsections (8A) and (9), for “clinical commissioning group”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” .

26.4

After section 116 insert—

########### Integrated care partnerships

26.4.116ZA

26.4.116ZA.1

An integrated care board and each responsible local authority whose area
coincides with or falls wholly or partly within the board’s area must
establish a joint committee for the board’s area (an “integrated care
partnership”).

26.4.116ZA.2

The integrated care partnership for an area is to consist of—

26.4.116ZA.2.a

one member appointed by the integrated care board,

26.4.116ZA.2.b

one member appointed by each of the responsible local authorities, and

26.4.116ZA.2.c

any members appointed by the integrated care partnership.

26.4.116ZA.3

An integrated care partnership may determine its own procedure (including
quorum).

########### Integrated care strategies

26.4.116ZB

26.4.116ZB.1

An integrated care partnership must prepare a strategy (an “integrated care
strategy”) setting out how the assessed needs in relation to its area are to
be met by the exercise of functions of—

26.4.116ZB.1.a

the integrated care board for its area,

26.4.116ZB.1.b

NHS England, or

26.4.116ZB.1.c

the responsible local authorities whose areas coincide with or fall wholly or
partly within its area.

26.4.116ZB.2

In preparing a strategy under this section, an integrated care partnership
must, in particular, consider the extent to which the needs could be met more
effectively by the making of arrangements under section 75 of the National
Health Service Act 2006 (rather than in any other way).

26.4.116ZB.3

In preparing a strategy under this section, an integrated care partnership
must have regard to—

26.4.116ZB.3.a

the mandate published by the Secretary of State under section 13A of the
National Health Service Act 2006, and

26.4.116ZB.3.b

any guidance issued by the Secretary of State.

26.4.116ZB.4

In preparing a strategy under this section, an integrated care partnership
must—

26.4.116ZB.4.a

involve the Local Healthwatch organisations whose areas coincide with or fall
wholly or partly within its area, and

26.4.116ZB.4.b

involve the people who live or work in that area.

26.4.116ZB.5

An integrated care partnership may include in a strategy under this section a
statement of its views on how arrangements for the provision of health-related
services in its area could be more closely integrated with arrangements for
the provision of health services and social care services in that area.

26.4.116ZB.6

Each time that an integrated care partnership receives an assessment of
relevant needs under section 116(5A) it must—

26.4.116ZB.6.a

consider whether the current integrated care strategy should be revised, and

26.4.116ZB.6.b

if so, prepare a revised integrated care strategy under subsection (1).

26.4.116ZB.7

An integrated care partnership must—

26.4.116ZB.7.a

publish each integrated care strategy, and

26.4.116ZB.7.b

give a copy of each integrated care strategy to—

26.4.116ZB.7.b.i

each responsible local authority whose area coincides with or falls wholly or
partly within its area, and

26.4.116ZB.7.b.ii

each partner integrated care board of those responsible local authorities.

26.4.116ZB.8

In this section—

26.4.116ZB.8.a

“ assessed needs ”, in relation to the area of an integrated care partnership,
means the needs assessed under section 116 in relation to the areas of the
responsible local authorities so far as those needs relate to the integrated
care partnership’s area;

26.4.116ZB.8.b

“ partner integrated care board ”, in relation to a responsible local
authority, has the same meaning as in section 116;

26.4.116ZB.8.c

“ health services ”, “ health-related services ” and “ social care services ”
have the same meaning as in section 195 of the Health and Social Care Act
2012.

26.5

In section 116A (health and social care: joint health and wellbeing
strategies)—

26.5.a

in the heading, after “joint” insert  “local” ;

26.5.b

for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

26.5.b.1

This section applies where a responsible local authority and each of its
partner integrated care boards receive an integrated care strategy under
section  116ZB (7)(b) .

26.5.b.2

The responsible local authority and each of its partner integrated care boards
must prepare a strategy (“a joint local health and wellbeing strategy”)
setting out how the assessed needs in relation to the responsible local
authority’s area are to be met by the exercise of functions of—

26.5.b.2.a

the responsible local authority,

26.5.b.2.b

its partner integrated care boards, or

26.5.b.2.c

NHS England.

26.5.b.2A

But the responsible local authority and its partner integrated care boards
need not prepare a new joint local health and wellbeing strategy if, having
considered the integrated care strategy, they consider that the existing joint
local health and wellbeing strategy is sufficient.

;

26.5.c

in subsection (3)—

26.5.c.i

for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” ;

26.5.c.ii

after “the extent to which the” insert  “assessed” ;

26.5.d

in subsection (4)—

26.5.d.i

for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” ;

26.5.d.ii

before paragraph (a) insert—

26.5.d.ii.za

the integrated care strategy prepared under section  116ZB ,

;

26.5.e

in subsections (5) and (7), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute
“integrated care boards” ;

26.5.f

in subsection (8), for paragraph (a) (including the “and” at the end)
substitute—

26.5.f.a

“ partner integrated care board ”, in relation to a responsible local
authority, has the same meaning as in section 116,

26.5.f.aa

“ assessed needs ”, in relation to the area of a local authority, means the
needs assessed in relation to its area under section 116, and

.

26.6

For section 116B substitute—

########### Duty to have regard to assessments and strategies

26.6.116B

26.6.116B.1

A responsible local authority and each of its partner integrated care boards
must, in exercising any functions, have regard to the following so far as
relevant—

26.6.116B.1.a

any assessment of relevant needs prepared under section 116 in relation to the
responsible local authority’s area,

26.6.116B.1.b

any integrated care strategy prepared under section  116ZB  in relation to an
area that coincides with or includes the whole or part of the responsible
local authority’s area, and

26.6.116B.1.c

any joint local health and wellbeing strategy prepared under section 116A by
the responsible local authority and its partner integrated care boards.

26.6.116B.2

NHS England must, in exercising any functions in arranging for the provision
of health services in relation to the area of a responsible local authority,
have regard to the following so far as relevant—

26.6.116B.2.a

any assessment of relevant needs prepared under section 116 in relation to
that area,

26.6.116B.2.b

any integrated care strategy prepared under section  116ZB  in relation to an
area that coincides with or includes the whole or part of that area, and

26.6.116B.2.c

any joint local health and wellbeing strategy prepared under section 116A by
the responsible local authority and its partner integrated care boards.

26.7

In the following provisions after “joint” insert  “local” —

26.7.a

section 17(6)(g) and (h) of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;

26.7.b

sections 26(7) and 27(4) of the Children and Families Act 2014.

#### Integrated care system: financial controls

##### NHS England’s financial responsibilities

27

For sections 223C to 223E of the National Health Service Act 2006 substitute—

######### Financial duties of NHS England: expenditure

27.223C

27.223C.1

NHS England must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that
expenditure incurred by the following bodies in a financial year (taken
together) does not exceed the aggregate of any sums received by them in the
year—

27.223C.1.a

NHS England;

27.223C.1.b

integrated care boards.

27.223C.2

The Secretary of State may by direction—

27.223C.2.a

specify descriptions of expenditure that are, or are not, to be treated for
the purposes of this section as expenditure incurred by a body, or expenditure
incurred by it in a particular financial year;

27.223C.2.b

specify descriptions of sums that are, or are not, to be treated for the
purposes of this section as having been received by a body, or as having been
received by it in a particular financial year;

27.223C.2.c

provide for sums received by NHS England under section 223B in a year but not
spent to be treated for the purposes of this section as expenditure incurred
by it in a particular financial year;

27.223C.2.d

provide for sums received by an integrated care board under section 223G in a
year but not spent to be treated for the purposes of this section as
expenditure incurred by it in a particular financial year.

27.223C.3

For the purposes of this section any sum allotted to NHS England for a year
under section 223B is to be treated as received by it in that year (subject to
any direction under subsection  (2)(b) ).

######### NHS England: banking facilities

27.223CA

The Secretary of State may by direction require NHS England to use banking
facilities specified in the direction for any purposes so specified.

######### Financial duties of NHS England: controls on total resource use

27.223D

27.223D.1

NHS England must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring that, in
respect of each financial year—

27.223D.1.a

total capital resource use does not exceed the limit specified in a direction
by the Secretary of State;

27.223D.1.b

total revenue resource use does not exceed the limit specified in a direction
by the Secretary of State.

27.223D.2

In subsection  (1)  “total capital resource use” and “ total revenue resource
use ” means the use of capital resources or (as the case may be) revenue
resources by relevant NHS bodies, other than use that consists of the transfer
of resources between relevant NHS bodies.

27.223D.3

In subsection  (2)  “ relevant NHS bodies ” means—

27.223D.3.a

NHS England,

27.223D.3.b

integrated care boards,

27.223D.3.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

27.223D.3.d

NHS foundation trusts.

27.223D.4

A direction under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b)  specifying a limit in relation
to a financial year may be varied by a subsequent direction only if—

27.223D.4.a

NHS England agrees to the change,

27.223D.4.b

a parliamentary general election takes place, or

27.223D.4.c

the Secretary of State considers that there are exceptional circumstances
which make the variation necessary.

27.223D.5

The Secretary of State must publish and lay before Parliament any directions
under this section.

27.223D.6

Any reference in this Chapter to the use of capital resources or revenue
resources is a reference to their expenditure, consumption or reduction in
value.

######### Financial duties of NHS England: additional controls on resource use

27.223E

27.223E.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to ensure—

27.223E.1.a

that relevant capital resource in a financial year which is attributable to
matters specified in the direction does not exceed an amount so specified;

27.223E.1.b

that relevant revenue resource use in a financial year which is attributable
to matters specified in the direction does not exceed an amount so specified.

27.223E.2

In subsection  (1)  “relevant capital resource use” and “ relevant revenue
resource use ” means the use of capital resources or (as the case may be)
revenue resources by NHS England and integrated care boards.

27.223E.3

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to ensure that NHS England’s use
of revenue resources in a financial year which is attributable to such matters
relating to administration as are specified in the direction does not exceed
an amount so specified.

##### Expansion of NHS England’s duties in respect of expenditure

28

In section  223C  of the National Health Service Act 2006 (as substituted by
section 27 of this Act), in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

28.c

NHS trusts established under section 25;

28.d

NHS foundation trusts.

##### Financial responsibilities of integrated care boards and their partners

29

29.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

29.2

For the italic heading before section 223G substitute—

  Integrated care boards

.

29.3

After section 223GA insert—

########### Power to impose financial requirements on integrated care boards

29.3.223GB

29.3.223GB.1

NHS England may give integrated care boards directions about their management
or use of financial or other resources.

29.3.223GB.2

The directions that may be given include a direction imposing limits on
expenditure or resource use by integrated care boards.

29.3.223GB.3

NHS England must publish any directions under this section.

########### Financial duties of integrated care boards: expenditure limits

29.3.223GC

29.3.223GC.1

An integrated care board must exercise its functions with a view to ensuring
that expenditure incurred by the board in a financial year does not exceed the
sums received by it in that year.

29.3.223GC.2

NHS England may by direction—

29.3.223GC.2.a

specify descriptions of expenditure that are, or are not, to be treated for
the purposes of this section as expenditure incurred by an integrated care
board, or expenditure incurred by it in a particular financial year;

29.3.223GC.2.b

specify descriptions of sums that are, or are not, to be treated for the
purposes of this section as having been received by an integrated care board,
or as having been received by it in a particular financial year;

29.3.223GC.2.c

provide for sums received by an integrated care board under section 223G in a
year but not spent to be treated for the purposes of this section as
expenditure incurred by it in a particular financial year.

29.3.223GC.3

For the purposes of this section any sum allotted to an integrated care board
for a year under section 223G is to be treated as received by it in that year
(subject to any direction under subsection  (2)(b) ).

########### Integrated care boards: banking facilities

29.3.223GD

The Secretary of State may give integrated care boards directions requiring
them to use specified banking facilities for any specified purposes.

29.4

Omit sections 223H to 223J (financial duties of clinical commissioning
groups).

29.5

After section 223K insert—

########### Joint duties of an integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts

############ Joint financial objectives for integrated care boards etc

29.5.223L

29.5.223L.1

NHS England may set joint financial objectives for integrated care boards and
their partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts.

29.5.223L.2

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must seek to achieve any financial objectives set under this section.

29.5.223L.3

Financial objectives under this section may apply to—

29.5.223L.3.a

integrated care boards and their partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
generally,

29.5.223L.3.b

a particular integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS
foundation trusts, or

29.5.223L.3.c

an integrated care board of a particular description and its partner NHS
trusts and NHS foundation trusts.

############ Financial duties of integrated care boards etc: use of resources

29.5.223M

29.5.223M.1

Each integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts must exercise their functions with a view to ensuring that, in respect
of each financial year—

29.5.223M.1.a

local capital resource use does not exceed the limit specified in a direction
by NHS England;

29.5.223M.1.b

local revenue resource use does not exceed the limit specified in a direction
by NHS England.

29.5.223M.2

In this section “local capital resource use” and “ local revenue resource use
” means the use of capital resources or (as the case may be) revenue resources
by the integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts, other than use that consists of the transfer of resources between
those bodies.

29.5.223M.3

Where an NHS trust or NHS foundation trust is the partner of more than one
integrated care board, its use of capital resources or revenue resources is to
be apportioned for the purposes of this section to one or more of the
integrated care boards in such manner as may be provided for in a direction by
NHS England.

29.5.223M.4

NHS England may by direction make provision for determining to which
integrated care board, NHS trust or NHS foundation trust a use of capital
resources or revenue resources is to be attributed for the purposes of this
section.

############ Financial duties of integrated care boards etc: additional controls on resource use

29.5.223N

29.5.223N.1

NHS England may direct an integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and
NHS foundation trusts to exercise their functions with a view to—

29.5.223N.1.a

ensuring that local capital resource use in a financial year which is
attributable to matters specified in the direction does not exceed an amount
so specified;

29.5.223N.1.b

ensuring that local revenue resource use in a financial year which is
attributable to matters specified in the direction does not exceed an amount
so specified.

29.5.223N.2

A direction under subsection  (1)  may—

29.5.223N.2.a

specify descriptions of resources which must, or must not, be treated as local
capital resources or local revenue resources for the purposes of the
direction;

29.5.223N.2.b

specify uses of local capital resources or local revenue resources which must,
or must not, be taken into account for the purposes of the direction.

29.5.223N.3

Any directions given under section  223M (3)  or  (4)  apply for the purposes
of this section as they apply for the purposes of section  223M .

29.5.223N.4

In this section “local capital resource use” and “local revenue resource use”
have the meaning given by section  223M (2) .

########### Directions about resources etc to be taken into account

############ Resources etc relevant to section 223D, 223E or 

29.5.223O

The Secretary of State may give directions, in relation to a financial year—

29.5.223O.a

specifying descriptions of resources which must, or must not, be treated as
capital resources or revenue resources for the purposes of section 223D, 223E
or  223M ;

29.5.223O.b

specifying uses of capital resources or revenue resources which must, or must
not, be taken into account for the purposes of section 223D, 223E or  223M .

##### Expansion of financial duties of integrated care boards and their partners

30

30.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

30.2

Omit section  223GC  (inserted by section 29 of this Act).

30.3

After section  223L  (inserted by section 29 of this Act) insert—

########### Financial duties of integrated care boards etc: expenditure limits

30.3.223LA

30.3.223LA.1

An integrated care board and its partner NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts
must exercise their functions with a view to ensuring that their expenditure
in a financial year (taken together) does not exceed the aggregate of any sums
received by them in the year.

30.3.223LA.2

Where an NHS trust or NHS foundation trust is the partner of more than one
integrated care board its receipts and expenditure are to be apportioned for
the purposes of this section to one or more of the integrated care boards in
such manner as may be provided for in a direction by NHS England.

30.3.223LA.3

NHS England may by direction—

30.3.223LA.3.a

specify descriptions of expenditure that are, or are not, to be treated for
the purposes of this section as expenditure incurred by a body, or expenditure
incurred by it in a particular financial year;

30.3.223LA.3.b

specify descriptions of sums that are, or are not, to be treated for the
purposes of this section as having been received by a body, or as having been
received by it in a particular financial year;

30.3.223LA.3.c

provide for sums received by an integrated care board under section 223G in a
year but not spent to be treated for the purposes of this section as
expenditure by it in a particular financial year.

30.3.223LA.4

For the purposes of this section any sum allotted to an integrated care board
for a year under section 223G is to be treated as received by it in that year
(subject to any direction under subsection  (3)(b) ).

#### Integrated care system: reviews and further amendments

##### Care Quality Commission reviews etc of integrated care system

31

31.1

Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (quality of health
and social care) is amended as follows.

31.2

After section 46A (inserted by section 163 of this Act) insert—

########### Reviews and performance assessments: integrated care system

31.2.46B

31.2.46B.1

The Commission must, in accordance with this section—

31.2.46B.1.a

conduct reviews of—

31.2.46B.1.a.i

the provision of relevant health care, and adult social care, within the area
of each integrated care board, and

31.2.46B.1.a.ii

the exercise of the functions of the following in relation to the provision of
that care within the area of each integrated care board: the board; its
partner local authorities; and registered service providers,

31.2.46B.1.b

assess the functioning of the system for the provision of relevant health
care, and adult social care, within the area of each integrated care board
(taking into account, in particular, how those mentioned in paragraph  (a)(ii)
work together), and

31.2.46B.1.c

publish a report of its assessment.

31.2.46B.2

The Secretary of State—

31.2.46B.2.a

must set, and may from time to time revise, objectives and priorities for the
Commission in relation to assessments under this section, and

31.2.46B.2.b

must inform the Commission of the objectives and priorities.

31.2.46B.3

The priorities set by the Secretary of State under subsection (2)(a) must
include priorities relating to leadership, the integration of services and the
quality and safety of services.

31.2.46B.4

The Commission—

31.2.46B.4.a

must determine, and may from time to time revise, indicators of quality for
the purposes of assessments under this section, and

31.2.46B.4.b

must obtain the approval of the Secretary of State in relation to the
indicators.

31.2.46B.5

The Secretary of State may direct the Commission to revise the indicators
under subsection  (4) .

31.2.46B.6

Different objectives and priorities may be set, and different indicators of
quality may be determined, for different cases.

31.2.46B.7

The Commission—

31.2.46B.7.a

must prepare, and may from time to time revise, a statement—

31.2.46B.7.a.i

setting out the frequency with which reviews under this section are to be
conducted and the period to which they are to relate, and

31.2.46B.7.a.ii

describing the method that it proposes to use in assessing and evaluating the
functioning of the system for the provision of relevant health care, and adult
social care, within the area of an integrated care board, and

31.2.46B.7.b

must obtain the approval of the Secretary of State in relation to the
statement.

31.2.46B.8

The statement may—

31.2.46B.8.a

make different provision about frequency and period of reviews for different
cases, and

31.2.46B.8.b

describe different methods for different cases.

31.2.46B.9

Before preparing or revising a statement under subsection  (7)  the Commission
must consult—

31.2.46B.9.a

NHS England, and

31.2.46B.9.b

any other persons it considers appropriate.

31.2.46B.10

The Secretary of State may direct the Commission to revise the statement under
subsection  (7) .

31.2.46B.11

The Commission must publish—

31.2.46B.11.a

the objectives and priorities under subsection  (2) ,

31.2.46B.11.b

the indicators of quality under subsection  (4) , and

31.2.46B.11.c

the statement under subsection  (7) .

31.2.46B.12

For the purposes of this section—

      “ adult social care ” means social care for individuals aged 18 or over;
“ partner local authority ”, in relation to an integrated care board, means
any English local authority whose area coincides with, or includes the whole
or any part of, the area of the integrated care board;           “ registered
service provider ” means a person registered under Chapter 2 as a service
provider;           “ relevant health care ” means—         NHS care, or
the promotion and protection of public health.

31.2.46B.13

Regulations may amend the definition of “relevant health care” to include
health care which is provided or commissioned by a public authority (but which
does not amount to NHS care).

31.3

In section 48 (special reviews and investigations), in subsection (2), after “
46A ” (inserted by section 163 of this Act) insert  “or  46B ” .

31.4

In section 50 (failings by English local authorities), in subsection (1),
after “ 46A ” (inserted by section 163 of this Act) insert  “or  46B ” .

31.5

In section 162 (orders and regulations: parliamentary control), in subsection
(3), after paragraph (c) insert—

31.5.c

regulations under section  46B (13)  (amendment of definition of relevant
health care),

.

##### Integrated care system: further amendments

32

Schedule 4 contains minor and consequential amendments.

#### Merger of NHS bodies etc

##### Abolition of Monitor and transfer of functions to NHS England

33

33.1

Monitor is abolished.

33.2

Schedule 5 contains amendments to transfer Monitor’s functions to NHS England
and related amendments.

##### Exercise by NHS England of new regulatory functions

34

34.1

The National Heath Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

34.2

After section 13SA (inserted by section 11 of this Act) insert—

########### Regulatory functions

############ Minimising conflicts between regulatory and other functions

34.2.13SB

34.2.13SB.1

NHS England must make arrangements for—

34.2.13SB.1.a

minimising the risk of conflicts between the exercise of its regulatory
functions and its other functions;

34.2.13SB.1.b

managing any conflicts that arise.

34.2.13SB.2

In this Act “ regulatory functions ”, in relation to NHS England, means—

34.2.13SB.2.a

its functions under the provisions listed in subsection  (3) ,

34.2.13SB.2.b

its functions under Chapter 5A of Part 2 (trust special administrators) in
relation to NHS foundation trusts, except for any functions that are conferred
on it under section 65DA, 65F or 65G as a commissioner, and

34.2.13SB.2.c

any other functions of NHS England so far as exercisable in connection with
functions within paragraph  (a)  or  (b) .

34.2.13SB.3

Those provisions are—

34.2.13SB.3.a

in Part 2 of this Act, Chapter 5 (NHS foundation trusts);

34.2.13SB.3.b

in Part 3 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012—

34.2.13SB.3.b.i

Chapter 3 (licensing);

34.2.13SB.3.b.ii

Chapter 4 (NHS payment scheme);

34.2.13SB.3.b.iii

Chapter 5 (health special administration);

34.2.13SB.3.b.iv

Chapter 6 (financial assistance in special administration cases).

34.3

In section 13U (annual report), after subsection (2) insert—

34.3.2A

The annual report must include a statement explaining what NHS England has
done, during the financial year, to comply with its duties under section  13SB
.

34.4

In section 275 (interpretation), in subsection (1), at the appropriate place
insert—

      “ regulatory functions ”, in relation to NHS England, has the meaning
given by section  13SB ,

.

##### Modification of standard licence conditions

35

35.1

Section 100 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (modification of standard
conditions) is amended as follows.

35.2

After subsection (1) insert—

35.2.1A

Before making modifications under subsection (1) that NHS England consider to
be a major change, NHS England must—

35.2.1A.a

carry out an assessment of the likely impact of the modifications, or

35.2.1A.b

publish a statement setting out its reasons for concluding that such
assessment is not needed.

35.3

In subsection (2), for “such modifications” substitute  “modifications under
subsection (1)” .

35.4

In subsection (4), after paragraph (b) insert—

35.4.ba

set out any impact assessment carried out by NHS England under subsection
(1A)(a) ,

.

##### Abolition of NHS Trust Development Authority

36

36.1

The Special Health Authority called the National Health Service Trust
Development Authority is abolished.

36.2

The following are revoked—

36.2.a

the National Health Service Trust Development Authority (Establishment and
Constitution) Order 2012 ( S.I. 2012/901 );

36.2.b

the National Health Service Trust Development Authority Regulations 2012 (
S.I. 2012/922 );

36.2.c

the National Health Service Trust Development Authority (Directions and
Miscellaneous Amendments etc.) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/214 ).

36.3

In section 9 of the Mental Health Units (Use of Force) Act 2018 (investigation
of deaths or serious injuries), omit paragraph (d).

36.4

In section 15 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (duty to co-operate with the
Domestic Abuse Commissioner), in subsection (7), omit paragraph (e) of the
definition of “NHS body in England”.

##### Merger of bodies: consequential amendment

37

In section 1H of the National Health Service Act 2006 (NHS England and its
general functions), in subsection (3)(b), before “so as to secure” insert  “,
NHS trusts established under section 25 and NHS foundation trusts” .

##### Transfer schemes in connection with abolished bodies

38

38.1

The Secretary of State may make one or more schemes for the transfer of
property, rights and liabilities from Monitor or the National Health Service
Trust Development Authority to NHS England.

38.2

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

38.2.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

38.2.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

38.2.c

criminal liabilities.

38.3

A transfer scheme may—

38.3.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

38.3.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by the transferor in
respect of anything transferred;

38.3.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

38.3.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

38.3.e

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

38.3.f

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

38.4

In subsection  (3)(e) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

38.5

In this section references to rights and liabilities include rights and
liabilities relating to a contract of employment.

##### Transfer schemes under section 38: taxation

39

39.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

39.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under section 38, or

39.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

39.2

The provision which may be made under subsection  (1)(a)  includes in
particular provision for—

39.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

39.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

39.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

39.3

The provision which may be made under subsection (1)(b) includes in particular
provision for—

39.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of or in relation to the transfer;

39.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

39.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

39.4

Regulations under this section are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of the House of Commons.

39.5

In this section—

      “ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax,
value added tax, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax;           “ tax
provision ” means a provision of an enactment about a relevant tax.

#### Secretary of State's functions

##### Duties in respect of research

40

In section 1E of the National Health Service Act 2006 (duty as to research),
after “must” insert  “facilitate or otherwise” .

##### Report on assessing and meeting workforce needs

41

After section 1G of the National Health Service Act 2006 (but before the
italic heading after it) insert—

######### Secretary of State’s duty to report on workforce systems

41.1GA

41.1GA.1

The Secretary of State must, at least once every five years, publish a report
describing the system in place for assessing and meeting the workforce needs
of the health service in England.

41.1GA.2

NHS England and Health Education England must assist in the preparation of a
report under this section, if requested to do so by the Secretary of State.

##### Arrangements for exercise of public health functions

42

For section 7A of the National Health Service Act 2006 substitute—

######### Exercise of Secretary of State’s public health functions

42.7A

42.7A.1

The Secretary of State may arrange for any of the public health functions of
the Secretary of State to be exercised by one or more relevant bodies.

42.7A.2

In this section “ relevant body ” means—

42.7A.2.a

NHS England,

42.7A.2.b

an integrated care board,

42.7A.2.c

a local authority (within the meaning of section 2B),

42.7A.2.d

a combined authority, or

42.7A.2.e

such other body as may be prescribed.

42.7A.3

Arrangements under this section may be made on such terms as may be agreed
between the parties including—

42.7A.3.a

terms as to payment;

42.7A.3.b

terms prohibiting or restricting a relevant body from making delegation
arrangements in relation to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of
arrangements under this section.

42.7A.4

In subsection  (3)(b)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by
a person for the exercise of a function by someone else.

42.7A.5

Any rights acquired, or liabilities (including liabilities in tort) incurred,
in respect of the exercise by a relevant body of any function by virtue of
this section are enforceable by or against that body (and no other person).

42.7A.6

The reference in subsection (1) to the public health functions of the
Secretary of State includes any functions of the Secretary of State
exercisable in connection with those functions (including the powers conferred
by section 12).

##### Power of direction: public health functions

43

43.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

43.2

After section  7A  (inserted by section 42 of this Act) insert—

########### Directions requiring NHS bodies to exercise public health functions

43.2.7B

43.2.7B.1

The Secretary of State may by direction provide for any of the public health
functions of the Secretary of State to be exercised by one or more relevant
bodies.

43.2.7B.2

In this section “ relevant body ” means—

43.2.7B.2.a

NHS England, or

43.2.7B.2.b

an integrated care board.

43.2.7B.3

A direction under subsection  (1)  may include provision prohibiting or
restricting the relevant body from making delegation arrangements in relation
to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of the direction.

43.2.7B.4

In subsection  (3)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by a
person for the exercise of a function by someone else.

43.2.7B.5

The Secretary of State may make payments to a relevant body in respect of the
exercise by it of a function by virtue of a direction under subsection  (1) .

43.2.7B.6

The Secretary of State may give directions to an integrated care board as to
the exercise by it of any functions by virtue of this section.

43.2.7B.7

For power to give directions to NHS England as to the exercise of functions,
see section 13ZC.

43.2.7B.8

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a direction under subsection
(1)  or  (6) , the Secretary of State must publish it.

43.2.7B.9

Any rights acquired, or liabilities (including liabilities in tort) incurred,
in respect of the exercise by a relevant body of any function by virtue of
this section are enforceable by or against it (and no other person).

43.2.7B.10

The reference in subsection (1) to the public health functions of the
Secretary of State includes any functions of the Secretary of State
exercisable in connection with those functions (including the powers conferred
by section 12).

43.3

In section 73 (directions and regulations under Parts 1 and 2), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (a) insert—

43.3.aa

section  7B ,

.

##### Power of direction: investigation functions

44

44.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

44.2

After section 7B (inserted by section 43 of this Act) insert—

########### Power of direction: investigation functions

44.2.7C

44.2.7C.1

The Secretary of State may direct—

44.2.7C.1.a

NHS England, or

44.2.7C.1.b

any other public body,

to exercise any of the investigation functions which are specified in the
direction.

44.2.7C.2

A direction under subsection  (1)  may include provision prohibiting or
restricting the body directed from making delegation arrangements in relation
to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of the direction.

44.2.7C.3

In subsection  (2)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by a
person for the exercise of a function by someone else.

44.2.7C.4

The Secretary of State may make payments to NHS England or any other body in
respect of the exercise by it of a function by virtue of a direction under
subsection  (1) .

44.2.7C.5

The Secretary of State may give directions to any body on whom functions are
conferred by virtue of subsection  (1) (b)  as to the exercise of those
functions.

44.2.7C.6

For power to give directions to NHS England as to the exercise of functions,
see section 13ZC.

44.2.7C.7

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a direction under subsection
(1)  or  (5) , the Secretary of State must publish it.

44.2.7C.8

Any rights acquired, or liabilities (including liabilities in tort) incurred,
in respect of the exercise by NHS England or any other body of any function by
virtue of this section are enforceable by or against it (and no other person).

44.2.7C.9

In this section “the investigation functions” are functions which, immediately
before the coming into force of section 36 of the Health and Care Act 2022,
were exercised by the Special Health Authority called the National Health
Service Trust Development Authority pursuant to—

44.2.7C.9.a

the National Health Service Trust Development Authority (Healthcare Safety
Investigation Branch) Directions 2016 made under sections 7 and 8 of the
National Health Service Act 2006, or

44.2.7C.9.b

the National Health Service Trust Development Authority (Healthcare Safety
Investigation Branch) (Additional Investigatory Functions in respect of
Maternity Cases) Directions 2018 made under sections 7 and 8 of the National
Health Service Act 2006.

########### Transfer schemes in connection with a direction under section 7C

44.2.7D

44.2.7D.1

The Secretary of State may, in connection with a direction under section  7C ,
make one or more transfer schemes.

44.2.7D.2

A “transfer scheme” is a scheme for the transfer to NHS England or any other
public body of any property, rights or liabilities relating to the discharge
of functions pursuant to any directions made by the Secretary of State under
the power conferred by section 7C.

44.2.7D.3

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

44.2.7D.3.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

44.2.7D.3.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

44.2.7D.3.c

criminal liabilities.

44.2.7D.4

A transfer scheme may—

44.2.7D.4.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

44.2.7D.4.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, or on behalf of
or in relation to the transferor in respect of anything transferred;

44.2.7D.4.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

44.2.7D.4.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

44.2.7D.4.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

44.2.7D.4.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

44.2.7D.4.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

44.2.7D.5

A transfer scheme may provide—

44.2.7D.5.a

for modifications by agreement;

44.2.7D.5.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

44.2.7D.6

In subsection  (4) (f) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

44.2.7D.7

For the purposes of this section—

44.2.7D.7.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

44.2.7D.7.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

44.2.7D.8

For the purposes of subsection  (7) (a) —

44.2.7D.8.a

an individual who holds employment in the civil service of the State is to be
treated as employed by virtue of a contract of employment, and

44.2.7D.8.b

the terms of the individual’s employment in the civil service are to be
regarded as constituting the terms of the contract of employment.

########### Transfer schemes under section 

44.2.7E

44.2.7E.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

44.2.7E.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under section  7D , or

44.2.7E.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

44.2.7E.2

The provision which may be made under subsection  (1)(a)  includes in
particular provision for—

44.2.7E.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

44.2.7E.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

44.2.7E.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

44.2.7E.3

The provision which may be made under subsection (1)(b) includes in particular
provision for—

44.2.7E.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of or in relation to the transfer;

44.2.7E.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

44.2.7E.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

44.2.7E.4

In this section references to the transfer of property include the grant of a
lease.

44.2.7E.5

In this section—

      “ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax,
value added tax, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax;           “ tax
provision ” means a provision of an enactment about a relevant tax.

44.3

In section 73 (directions and regulations under Parts 1 and 2), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (aa) (inserted by section 43 of this Act) insert—

44.3.ab

section 7C,

.

44.4

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions)—

44.4.a

in subsection (4), after “subsections” insert  “(4A),” , and

44.4.b

after that subsection insert—

44.4.b.4A

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section  7E (1)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

##### General power to direct NHS England

45

45.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

45.2

Before section 13Z1 (and the italic heading before it) insert—

########### Powers of direction

############ Secretary of State directions as to exercise of NHS England functions

45.2.13ZC

45.2.13ZC.1

The Secretary of State may give NHS England directions as to the exercise of
any of its functions.

45.2.13ZC.2

The directions that may be given include a direction as to whether a power is
to be exercised or not.

45.2.13ZC.3

The directions that may be given include a direction as to—

45.2.13ZC.3.a

when or how a function is, or is not, to be exercised;

45.2.13ZC.3.b

conditions that must be met before a function is exercised (for example,
conditions relating to the provision of information, consultation or
approval);

45.2.13ZC.3.c

matters to be taken into account in exercising a function.

45.2.13ZC.4

For exceptions to the power to give directions under subsection  (1) , see
section  13ZD .

45.2.13ZC.5

A direction under subsection  (1)  must include a statement that the Secretary
of State considers the direction to be in the public interest.

45.2.13ZC.6

As soon as reasonably practicable after giving a direction under subsection
(1) , the Secretary of State must publish it.

45.2.13ZC.7

The fact that the Secretary of State has a function under any other enactment
in relation to NHS England’s exercise of functions is not to be read as
limiting the power conferred by subsection (1).

45.2.13ZC.8

The reference in subsection (7) to a function of the Secretary of State does
not include a function of making subordinate legislation.

############ Power to give directions: exceptions

45.2.13ZD

45.2.13ZD.1

A direction under section  13ZC  may not be given in relation to a function
relating to the appointment or employment of a person.

45.2.13ZD.2

A direction under section  13ZC  may not be given in relation to a decision
about the services to be provided to a particular individual for or in
connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness.

45.2.13ZD.3

A direction under section  13ZC  may not be given in relation to the provision
of any drug, medicine or other treatment, or the use of any diagnostic
technique, unless NICE has made a recommendation or issued guidance as to its
clinical and cost effectiveness and the direction is not inconsistent with
that recommendation or guidance.

############ Compliance with directions: significant failure

45.2.13ZE

45.2.13ZE.1

This section applies where—

45.2.13ZE.1.a

NHS England is given a direction under section  13ZC ,

45.2.13ZE.1.b

the direction —

45.2.13ZE.1.b.i

states that the Secretary of State considers that NHS England is failing or
has failed to discharge any of its functions, and

45.2.13ZE.1.b.ii

states that the Secretary of State considers that the failure is significant
and explains why,

45.2.13ZE.1.c

the direction states that it is given for the purposes of addressing that
failure, and

45.2.13ZE.1.d

NHS England fails to comply with the direction.

45.2.13ZE.2

The Secretary of State may—

45.2.13ZE.2.a

discharge the functions to which the direction relates, or

45.2.13ZE.2.b

make arrangements for any other person to discharge them on the Secretary of
State’s behalf.

45.2.13ZE.3

Where the Secretary of State exercises the power under subsection (2), the
Secretary of State must publish the reasons for doing so.

45.2.13ZE.4

For the purpose of this section—

45.2.13ZE.4.a

a failure to discharge a function includes a failure to discharge it properly,
and

45.2.13ZE.4.b

a failure to discharge a function properly includes a failure to discharge it
consistently with what the Secretary of State considers to be the interests of
the health service.

############ Secretary of State directions to provide information

45.2.13ZF

45.2.13ZF.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to provide the Secretary of
State with any documents or other information that may be specified in the
direction.

45.2.13ZF.2

The directions that may be given include a direction to provide documents or
other information that NHS England would need to obtain from others in the
exercise of some other power.

45.2.13ZF.3

The directions may include provision as to—

45.2.13ZF.3.a

the form or manner in which the documents or information must be provided;

45.2.13ZF.3.b

the time at which or period within which the documents or information must be
provided.

45.3

Omit section 13Z2 (failure to discharge functions) and the italic heading
before it.

45.4

In Schedule A1 (constitution of NHS England), omit paragraph 14 and the italic
heading before it.

##### Reconfiguration of services: intervention powers

46

46.1

After section 68 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

########### Reconfiguration of NHS services

############ Reconfiguration of NHS services

46.1.68A

Schedule 10A confers intervention powers on the Secretary of State in relation
to the reconfiguration of NHS services.

46.2

Schedule 6 inserts into the National Health Service Act 2006 a new Schedule
10A to that Act (intervention powers in relation to the reconfiguration of NHS
services).

##### Review into NHS supply chains

47

47.1

The Secretary of State must carry out a review into the risk of slavery and
human trafficking taking place in relation to people involved in NHS supply
chains.

47.2

The Secretary of State may determine which NHS supply chains to consider as
part of the review or otherwise limit the scope of the review.

47.3

But the review must at least consider a significant proportion of NHS supply
chains for cotton-based products in relation to which companies formed under
section 223 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (taken as a whole)
exercise functions.

47.4

The Secretary of State must publish and lay before Parliament a report on the
outcome of the review before the end of the period of 18 months beginning with
the day on which this section comes into force.

47.5

The report must describe—

47.5.a

the scope of the review, and

47.5.b

the methodology used in carrying out the review.

47.6

The report must include any views of the Secretary of State as to steps that
should be taken to mitigate the risk mentioned in subsection  (1) .

47.7

NHS England must assist in the carrying out of the review or the preparation
of the report under this section, if requested to do so by the Secretary of
State.

47.8

In this section—

      “ health service in England ” means the health service continued under
section 1(1) of the National Health Service Act 2006;           “ NHS supply
chain ” means the supply chain for providing goods or services for the
purposes of the health service in England;           “ slavery and human
trafficking ” has the meaning given by section 54(12) of the Modern Slavery
Act 2015.

#### NHS trusts

##### NHS trusts in England

48

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012, omit section 179 (abolition of NHS
trusts in England).

##### Removal of power to appoint trust funds and trustees

49

In Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006, omit paragraph 10
(power to appoint trustees for an NHS trust) and the italic heading before it.

##### Sections 48 and 49: consequential amendments

50

Schedule 7 contains amendments that are consequential on sections 48 and 49.

##### Licensing of NHS trusts

51

51.1

In the National Health Service (Licence Exemptions, etc) Regulations 2013 (
S.I. 2013/2677 ), omit regulation 4 (which exempts NHS trusts in England from
the requirement to hold a licence).

51.2

After section 87 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 insert—

########### Application and grant: NHS trusts

51.2.87A

51.2.87A.1

An NHS trust established under section 25 of the National Health Service Act
2006 is to be treated, on its establishment, as—

51.2.87A.1.a

having made an application for a licence under section 85, and

51.2.87A.1.b

having met the criteria for holding a licence for the time being published
under section 86.

51.2.87A.2

An NHS trust established under section 25 of the National Health Service Act
2006 before the day on which section 51 (1)  of the Health and Care Act 2022
comes into force is to be treated, for the purposes of subsection (1), as
having been established on that day.

##### NHS trusts: wider effect of decisions

52

After section 26 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Duty to have regard to wider effect of decisions

52.26A

52.26A.1

In making a decision about the exercise of its functions, an NHS trust
established under section 25 must have regard to all likely effects of the
decision in relation to—

52.26A.1.a

the health and well-being of the people of England;

52.26A.1.b

the quality of services provided to individuals—

52.26A.1.b.i

by relevant bodies, or

52.26A.1.b.ii

in pursuance of arrangements made by relevant bodies,

for or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness,
as part of the health service in England;

52.26A.1.c

efficiency and sustainability in relation to the use of resources by relevant
bodies for the purposes of the health service in England.

52.26A.2

In subsection  (1) —

52.26A.2.a

the reference to a decision does not include a reference to a decision about
the services to be provided to a particular individual for or in connection
with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness;

52.26A.2.b

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the health and well-
being of the people of England includes a reference to its effects in relation
to inequalities between the people of England with respect to their health and
well-being;

52.26A.2.c

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the quality of services
provided to individuals includes a reference to its effects in relation to
inequalities between individuals with respect to the benefits that they can
obtain from those services.

52.26A.3

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS trusts must have regard to
guidance published by NHS England under section 13NB.

52.26A.4

In this section “ relevant bodies ” means—

52.26A.4.a

NHS England,

52.26A.4.b

integrated care boards,

52.26A.4.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

52.26A.4.d

NHS foundation trusts.

##### NHS trusts: duties in relation to climate change

53

After section 26A of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by section
52 of this Act) insert—

######### Duties in relation to climate change etc

53.26B

53.26B.1

An NHS trust established under section 25 must, in the exercise of its
functions, have regard to the need to—

53.26B.1.a

contribute towards compliance with—

53.26B.1.a.i

section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target), and

53.26B.1.a.ii

section 5 of the Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets), and

53.26B.1.b

adapt to any current or predicted impacts of climate change identified in the
most recent report under section 56 of the Climate Change Act 2008.

53.26B.2

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS trusts must have regard to
guidance published by NHS England under section 13ND.

##### Oversight and support of NHS trusts

54

54.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

54.2

After section 27 insert—

########### Oversight and support of NHS trusts

54.2.27A

NHS England must—

54.2.27A.a

monitor NHS trusts established under section 25 in the carrying out of their
functions, and

54.2.27A.b

provide such advice, guidance or other support as it considers appropriate to
help NHS trusts established under section 25 in the carrying out of their
functions.

54.3

In Schedule 4—

54.3.a

in paragraph 12 (reports etc), in sub-paragraph (1), for “the Secretary of
State”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” ;

54.3.b

in paragraph 13 (provision of information by NHS trusts), in sub-paragraph (1)
(as created by section 25 (4)  of this Act)—

54.3.b.i

after “the Secretary of State” insert  “or NHS England” ;

54.3.b.ii

for “he” substitute  “the Secretary of State or NHS England” .

##### Directions to NHS trusts

55

55.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

55.2

After section 27A (inserted by section 54 of this Act) insert—

########### NHS England’s directions to NHS trusts

55.2.27B

55.2.27B.1

NHS England may give directions to an NHS trust established under section 25
about its exercise of any functions.

55.2.27B.2

In so far as a direction under this section conflicts with a direction under
section 8 or paragraph 25(3) of Schedule 4, it is of no effect.

55.3

In section 73 (directions and regulations under Parts 1 and 2), in subsection
(1), after paragraph (ba) (inserted by section 13 of this Act) insert—

55.3.bb

section  27B ,

.

55.4

In Schedule 4—

55.4.a

in paragraph 20 (additional income), in sub-paragraph (2)—

55.4.a.i

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

55.4.a.ii

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

55.4.a.ii.c

in circumstances specified in directions under section  27B , with the consent
of NHS England.

;

55.4.b

in paragraph 25 (staff), in sub-paragraph (3), at the end insert  “and any
directions given by NHS England under section  27B ” .

##### Recommendations about restructuring of NHS trusts

56

After section 27B of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by section
55 of this Act) insert—

######### Recommendations about restructuring

56.27C

56.27C.1

NHS England may—

56.27C.1.a

make recommendations to NHS trusts for or in connection with the making of
restructuring applications;

56.27C.1.b

take such other steps as it considers appropriate to facilitate restructuring
applications involving NHS trusts.

56.27C.2

In this section “ restructuring application ”, in relation to an NHS trust,
means an application by the NHS trust under—

56.27C.2.a

section 56 (mergers involving NHS foundation trusts);

56.27C.2.b

section 56A (acquisitions by NHS foundation trusts);

56.27C.2.c

section 69A (transfer of property etc between NHS bodies);

56.27C.2.d

paragraph 28 of Schedule 4 (dissolution of NHS trusts).

##### Intervention in NHS trusts

57

After section 27C of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by section
56 of this Act) insert—

######### Intervention in NHS trusts: recommendations etc by NHS England

57.27D

57.27D.1

If NHS England considers that Secretary of State ought to make an order under
section 66(2) or 68(2) in relation to an NHS trust established under section
25, NHS England must—

57.27D.1.a

make a recommendation to that effect,

57.27D.1.b

set out its reasons for the recommendation, and

57.27D.1.c

make any recommendations it considers appropriate as to the contents of the
order.

57.27D.2

NHS England must make any inquiries, and provide any other assistance, that
the Secretary of State may require in connection with deciding whether to make
an order under section 66(2) or 68(2) in relation to an NHS trust established
under section 25 and, if so, on what terms.

##### NHS trusts: conversion to NHS foundation trusts and dissolution

58

58.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

58.2

In section 33 (application by NHS trusts to become NHS foundation trusts), in
subsection (1), omit “, if the application is supported by the Secretary of
State”.

58.3

In section 35 (authorisation of NHS foundation trusts), in subsection (1),
after “if” insert  “the Secretary of State approves the authorisation and” .

58.4

In section 57 (supplementary provision in connection with mergers and
acquisitions with NHS foundation trusts), in subsection (5), after “Secretary
of State” insert  “or NHS England” .

58.5

In Schedule 4—

58.5.a

in paragraph 28 (power to dissolve NHS trusts)—

58.5.a.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “Secretary of State” insert  “or NHS England” ;

58.5.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

58.5.a.ii.1A

An order under this paragraph may be made by NHS England only with the
approval of the Secretary of State.

;

58.5.a.iii

in sub-paragraphs (2)(b) and (3), after “the Secretary of State” insert  “or
NHS England” ;

58.5.b

in paragraph 29 (transfers), for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

58.5.b.1

If an NHS trust is dissolved under paragraph 28, the Secretary of State or NHS
England may by order transfer, or provide for the transfer of, the property
and liabilities of the NHS trust to the Secretary of State or an NHS body; and
such an order may include provisions corresponding to those of paragraph 9.

;

58.5.c

in paragraph 30 (transfers: pensions etc), in sub-paragraph (1), after “he”
insert  “or NHS England” .

##### Appointment of chair of NHS trusts

59

In paragraph 3(1)(a) of Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006
(appointment of chair of board of directors of NHS trust), for “the Secretary
of State” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Financial objectives for NHS trusts

60

In paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 of the National Health Service Act 2006
(financial obligations of NHS trusts), for sub-paragraphs (2) and (3)
substitute—

60.2

NHS England may set financial objectives for NHS trusts.

60.3

An NHS trust must achieve any financial objectives set under sub-paragraph
(2) .

60.4

Financial objectives under sub-paragraph  (2)  may apply to NHS trusts
generally, or to a particular NHS trust or NHS trusts of a particular
description.

#### NHS foundation trusts

##### Licensing of NHS foundation trusts

61

In section 88 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (application and grant of
licenses: NHS foundation trusts), for subsection (1) substitute—

61.1

This section applies where—

61.1.a

an NHS trust becomes an NHS foundation trust in pursuance of section 36 of the
National Health Service Act 2006 (effect of authorisation of NHS foundation
trust), or

61.1.b

an NHS foundation trust is established under sections 56 or 56B of that Act
(mergers and separations).

##### Capital spending limits for NHS foundation trusts

62

62.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

62.2

After section 42A insert—

########### Limits on capital expenditure

62.2.42B

62.2.42B.1

NHS England may make an order imposing a limit on the capital expenditure of
an NHS foundation trust in respect of a single financial year.

62.2.42B.2

The order must specify—

62.2.42B.2.a

the trust,

62.2.42B.2.b

the capital expenditure limit, and

62.2.42B.2.c

the financial year to which the limit relates.

62.2.42B.3

NHS England must consult the trust before making the order.

62.2.42B.4

NHS England must publish each order under this section.

62.2.42B.5

An order under this section may be made at any time during or before the
financial year to which it relates.

62.2.42B.6

A trust that is the subject of an order under this section must not exceed the
capital expenditure limit imposed by the order during the financial year to
which it relates.

62.2.42B.7

In this section “ capital expenditure ”, in relation to an NHS foundation
trust, means expenditure of the trust which falls to be capitalised in its
annual accounts.

########### Guidance in relation to orders under section 42B

62.2.42C

62.2.42C.1

NHS England must publish guidance about the exercise of its power to make
orders under section  42B , including guidance about—

62.2.42C.1.a

the circumstances in which it is likely to make an order, and

62.2.42C.1.b

the method it will use to determine the capital expenditure limit.

62.2.42C.2

NHS England must consult the Secretary of State before it publishes guidance,
or revised guidance, under this section.

62.2.42C.3

NHS England must have regard to the guidance in exercising its power to make
orders under section 42B.

62.3

In section 64 (orders and regulations under Chapter 5), in subsection (1),
after “regulations” insert  “, other than the power to make an order under
section 42B,” .

##### Accounts, reports and forward plans

63

63.1

In the National Health Service Act 2006—

63.1.a

in section 43, omit subsections (3B) and (3C) (requirements relating to
content etc of forward plan for NHS foundation trusts);

63.1.b

in paragraph 27 of Schedule 7, omit sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) (which require
the forward plan to be prepared by the directors etc).

63.2

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012—

63.2.a

omit section 155 (accounts: transfer of functions relating to accounts from
the regulator to the Secretary of State);

63.2.b

in section 156 omit—

63.2.b.i

subsection (3) (power to provide for content of annual reports to be
prescribed by regulations rather than determined by the regulator);

63.2.b.ii

subsection (4) (duty to give forward plan to Secretary of State, rather than
to the regulator).

##### NHS foundation trusts: joint exercise of functions

64

After section 47 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Joint exercise of functions

64.47A

An NHS foundation trust may enter into arrangements for the carrying out, on
such terms as the NHS foundation trust considers appropriate, of any of its
functions jointly with any other person.

##### NHS foundation trusts: mergers, acquisitions and separations

65

65.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

65.2

In section 56 (mergers)—

65.2.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (a);

65.2.b

for subsection (4) substitute—

65.2.b.4

NHS England must grant the application if—

65.2.b.4.a

it is satisfied that such steps as are necessary to prepare for the
dissolution of the trusts and the establishment of the new trust have been
taken, and

65.2.b.4.b

the Secretary of State approves the grant of the application,

and must otherwise refuse the application.

65.3

In section 56A (acquisitions)—

65.3.a

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (a) and the “and” at the end;

65.3.b

for subsection (4) substitute—

65.3.b.4

NHS England must grant the application if—

65.3.b.4.a

it is satisfied that such steps as are necessary to prepare for the
acquisition have been taken, and

65.3.b.4.b

the Secretary of State approves the grant of the application,

and must otherwise refuse the application.

65.4

In section 56B (separations), for subsection (4) substitute—

65.4.4

NHS England must grant the application if—

65.4.4.a

it is satisfied that such steps as are necessary to prepare for the
dissolution of the trust and the establishment of each of the proposed new
trusts have been taken, and

65.4.4.b

the Secretary of State approves the grant of the application,

and must otherwise refuse the application.

##### Transfers on dissolution of NHS foundation trusts

66

In section 57A of the National Health Service Act 2006 (dissolution)—

66.a

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (a) and the “and” at the end;

66.b

in subsection (4), for paragraph (b) substitute—

66.b.b

transferring, or providing for the transfer of, the property and liabilities
(including criminal liabilities) to another NHS foundation trust, an NHS trust
established under section 25 or the Secretary of State.

;

66.c

after subsection (4) insert—

66.c.5

The order must include provision for the transfer of any employees of the NHS
foundation trust that is dissolved.

##### NHS foundation trusts: wider effect of decisions

67

In the National Health Service Act 2006, after section 63 insert—

######### Duty to have regard to wider effect of decisions

67.63A

67.63A.1

In making a decision about the exercise of its functions, an NHS foundation
trust must have regard to all likely effects of the decision in relation to—

67.63A.1.a

the health and well-being of the people of England;

67.63A.1.b

the quality of services provided to individuals—

67.63A.1.b.i

by relevant bodies, or

67.63A.1.b.ii

in pursuance of arrangements made by relevant bodies,

for or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness,
as part of the health service in England;

67.63A.1.c

efficiency and sustainability in relation to the use of resources by relevant
bodies for the purposes of the health service in England.

67.63A.2

In subsection  (1) —

67.63A.2.a

the reference to a decision does not include a reference to a decision about
the services to be provided to a particular individual for or in connection
with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness;

67.63A.2.b

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the health and well-
being of the people of England includes a reference to its effects in relation
to inequalities between the people of England with respect to their health and
well-being;

67.63A.2.c

the reference to effects of a decision in relation to the quality of services
provided to individuals includes a reference to its effects in relation to
inequalities between individuals with respect to the benefits that they can
obtain from those services.

67.63A.3

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS foundation trusts must have
regard to guidance published by NHS England under section 13NB.

67.63A.4

In this section “ relevant bodies ” means—

67.63A.4.a

NHS England,

67.63A.4.b

integrated care boards,

67.63A.4.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

67.63A.4.d

NHS foundation trusts.

##### NHS foundation trusts: duties in relation to climate change

68

After section 63A of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by section
67 of this Act) insert—

######### Duties in relation to climate change etc

68.63B

68.63B.1

An NHS foundation trust must, in the exercise of its functions, have regard to
the need to—

68.63B.1.a

contribute towards compliance with—

68.63B.1.a.i

section 1 of the Climate Change Act 2008 (UK net zero emissions target), and

68.63B.1.a.ii

section 5 of the Environment Act 2021 (environmental targets), and

68.63B.1.b

adapt to any current or predicted impacts of climate change identified in the
most recent report under section 56 of the Climate Change Act 2008.

68.63B.2

In discharging the duty under this section, NHS foundation trusts must have
regard to guidance published by NHS England under section 13ND.

#### NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts

##### Transfer schemes between trusts

69

After section 69 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Transfer schemes

########## Transfer schemes: NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts

69.69A

69.69A.1

NHS England may make one or more schemes for the transfer of property, rights
and liabilities from a relevant NHS body to another relevant NHS body on an
application made to it under this section.

69.69A.2

The application must—

69.69A.2.a

be made jointly by the relevant NHS bodies, and

69.69A.2.b

state the property, rights or liabilities to be transferred.

69.69A.3

NHS England may grant an application under this section only if it is
satisfied that such steps as are necessary to prepare for the transfer have
been taken.

69.69A.4

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

69.69A.4.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

69.69A.4.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

69.69A.4.c

criminal liabilities.

69.69A.5

A transfer scheme may—

69.69A.5.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

69.69A.5.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by the transferor in
respect of anything transferred;

69.69A.5.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

69.69A.5.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

69.69A.5.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

69.69A.5.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

69.69A.5.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

69.69A.6

A transfer scheme may provide—

69.69A.6.a

for modifications by agreement;

69.69A.6.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

69.69A.7

In this section—

69.69A.7.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

69.69A.7.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

69.69A.8

In this section—

      “ relevant NHS body ” means—         an NHS trust established under
section 25;           an NHS foundation trust;                 “ the TUPE
regulations ” means the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

##### Trust special administrators

70

Schedule 8 contains amendments to Chapter 5A of the National Health Service
Act 2006 (which transfer functions to NHS England in relation to trust special
administrators).

#### Joint working and delegation of functions

##### Joint working and delegation arrangements

71

71.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

71.2

After section  65Z4  (inserted by section 14 of this Act) insert—

########### Joint working arrangements and delegation

############ Joint working and delegation arrangements

71.2.65Z5

71.2.65Z5.1

A relevant body may arrange for any functions exercisable by it to be
exercised by or jointly with any one or more of the following—

71.2.65Z5.1.a

a relevant body;

71.2.65Z5.1.b

a local authority (within the meaning of section 2B);

71.2.65Z5.1.c

a combined authority.

71.2.65Z5.2

In this section “ relevant body ” means—

71.2.65Z5.2.a

NHS England,

71.2.65Z5.2.b

an integrated care board,

71.2.65Z5.2.c

an NHS trust established under section 25,

71.2.65Z5.2.d

an NHS foundation trust, or

71.2.65Z5.2.e

such other body as may be prescribed.

71.2.65Z5.3

Regulations may—

71.2.65Z5.3.a

provide that the power in subsection (1) does not apply, or applies only to a
prescribed extent, in relation to prescribed functions;

71.2.65Z5.3.b

impose conditions on the exercise of the power.

71.2.65Z5.4

Arrangements under this section may be made on such terms as may be agreed
between the parties, including—

71.2.65Z5.4.a

terms as to payment;

71.2.65Z5.4.b

terms prohibiting or restricting a body from making delegation arrangements in
relation to a function that is exercisable by it by virtue of arrangements
under this section.

71.2.65Z5.5

In subsection  (4)(b)  “ delegation arrangements ” means arrangements made by
a body for the exercise of a function by someone else.

71.2.65Z5.6

Any rights acquired, or liabilities (including liabilities in tort) incurred,
in respect of the exercise by a body of any function by virtue of this section
are enforceable by or against that body (and no other person).

############ Joint committees and pooled funds

71.2.65Z6

71.2.65Z6.1

This section applies where a function is exercisable jointly (by virtue of
section  65Z5  or otherwise) by a relevant body and any one or more of the
following—

71.2.65Z6.1.a

a relevant body;

71.2.65Z6.1.b

a local authority (within the meaning of section 2B);

71.2.65Z6.1.c

a combined authority.

71.2.65Z6.2

The bodies by whom the function is exercisable jointly may—

71.2.65Z6.2.a

arrange for the function to be exercised by a joint committee of theirs;

71.2.65Z6.2.b

arrange for one or more of the bodies, or a joint committee of the bodies, to
establish and maintain a pooled fund.

71.2.65Z6.3

A pooled fund is a fund—

71.2.65Z6.3.a

which is made up of payments received in accordance with the arrangements from
relevant bodies that are party to the arrangements, and

71.2.65Z6.3.b

out of which payments may be made in accordance with the arrangements towards
expenditure incurred in the exercise of functions in relation to which the
arrangements are made.

71.2.65Z6.4

Arrangements under this section may be made on such terms as may be agreed
between the parties, including terms as to payment.

71.2.65Z6.5

In this section “ relevant body ” has the meaning given by section  65Z5 (2) .

############ Joint working and delegation: guidance by NHS England

71.2.65Z7

71.2.65Z7.1

NHS England may publish guidance for relevant bodies about the exercise of
their powers under sections  65Z5  and  65Z6 .

71.2.65Z7.2

A relevant body must have regard to any guidance published under this section.

71.2.65Z7.3

In this section “ relevant body ” has the meaning given by section  65Z5 (2) .

71.3

In section 75(7B)—

71.3.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “or” ;

71.3.b

for paragraphs (b) and (c) substitute—

71.3.b.b

section  65Z5  (joint working and delegation arrangements).

71.4

In consequence of subsection  (2) , omit sections 13Z to 13ZB and the italic
heading before those sections.

##### References to functions: treatment of delegation arrangements etc

72

72.1

After section 275 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

########### References to functions: delegation etc

72.1.275A

72.1.275A.1

A reference in this Act to the functions of a person includes functions of
others that are exercisable by the person by virtue of any provision of any
enactment (unless the context otherwise requires).

72.1.275A.2

Regulations may create exceptions to subsection (1).

72.2

Schedule 9 contains—

72.2.a

amendments that are consequential on this section and other provisions of this
Part, and

72.2.b

other related amendments.

#### Collaborative working

##### Repeal of duties to promote autonomy

73

73.1

In the National Health Service Act 2006 omit—

73.1.a

section 1D (Secretary of State’s duty to promote autonomy);

73.1.b

section 13F (NHS Commissioning Board’s duty to promote autonomy).

73.2

In consequence of subsection  (1) , in the Health and Social Care Act 2012,
omit section 5.

##### Guidance about joint appointments

74

After section 13U of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Joint appointments

########## Guidance about joint appointments

74.13UA

74.13UA.1

NHS England may publish guidance for a relevant NHS body about the making of a
joint appointment to which this section applies.

74.13UA.2

A joint appointment to which this section applies is an appointment of a
person to a position in—

74.13UA.2.a

one or more relevant NHS commissioner and one or more relevant NHS provider,

74.13UA.2.b

one or more relevant NHS body and one or more local authority, or

74.13UA.2.c

one or more relevant NHS body and one or more combined authority.

74.13UA.3

A relevant NHS body must have regard to guidance published under this section.

74.13UA.4

NHS England must consult such persons as NHS England considers appropriate—

74.13UA.4.a

before it first publishes guidance under this section, and

74.13UA.4.b

before it publishes any revised guidance containing changes that are, in the
opinion of NHS England, significant.

74.13UA.5

In this section—

      “ local authority ” has the same meaning as in section 2B;           “
relevant NHS body ” means—         a relevant NHS commissioner;           a
relevant NHS provider;                 “ relevant NHS commissioner ” means—
NHS England;           an integrated care board;                 “ relevant
NHS provider ” means—         an NHS trust established under section 25;
an NHS foundation trust.

##### Co-operation by NHS bodies etc

75

75.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  and  (3) .

75.2

In section 72 (co-operation between NHS bodies)—

75.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

75.2.a.1A

The Secretary of State may publish guidance on the discharge of the duty under
subsection (1) in relation to England.

75.2.a.1B

An NHS body other than a Welsh NHS body must have regard to any guidance
published under subsection  (1A) .

;

75.2.b

after subsection (4) insert—

75.2.b.5

In this section “ Welsh NHS body ” means—

75.2.b.5.a

an NHS trust established under the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,

75.2.b.5.b

a Special Health Authority established under that Act, or

75.2.b.5.c

a Local Health Board.

75.3

In section 82 (co-operation between NHS bodies and local authorities)—

75.3.a

the existing words become subsection (1);

75.3.b

after that subsection insert—

75.3.b.2

The Secretary of State may publish guidance on the discharge of the duty under
this section in relation to England.

75.3.b.3

The following must have regard to any guidance published under subsection  (2)
—

75.3.b.3.a

an NHS body other than a Welsh NHS body;

75.3.b.3.b

a local authority in England.

75.3.b.4

In this section “ Welsh NHS body ” means—

75.3.b.4.a

an NHS trust established under the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,

75.3.b.4.b

a Special Health Authority established under that Act, or

75.3.b.4.c

a Local Health Board.

75.4

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012, in section 96 (limits on functions to
set or modify licence conditions)—

75.4.a

in subsection (2), for paragraph (g) substitute—

75.4.a.g

for the purpose of enabling, promoting or securing co-operation between
providers of health care services for the purposes of the NHS, or between such
providers and—

75.4.a.g.i

NHS bodies, within the meaning of section 72 of the National Health Service
Act 2006, or

75.4.a.g.ii

local authorities in England (and for this purpose “ local authority ” has the
meaning given by section 275(1) of the National Health Service Act 2006);

;

75.4.b

in subsection (3), in the words before paragraph (a), for “(f) and (g)”
substitute  “and (f)” .

##### Wider effect of decisions: licensing of health care providers

76

In section 96 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (limits on functions to
set or modify licence conditions)—

76.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (d) insert—

76.a.da

for the purpose of ensuring that decisions relating to the provision of health
care services for the purposes of the NHS are made with regard to all their
likely effects in relation to the matters referred to in subsection (2A);

;

76.b

after subsection (2) insert—

76.b.2A

The matters referred to in subsection (2)(da) are—

76.b.2A.a

the health and well-being of the people of England;

76.b.2A.b

the quality of services provided to individuals—

76.b.2A.b.i

by relevant bodies, or

76.b.2A.b.ii

in pursuance of arrangements made by relevant bodies,

for or in connection with the prevention, diagnosis or treatment of illness,
as part of the health service in England;

76.b.2A.c

efficiency and sustainability in relation to the use of resources by relevant
bodies for the purposes of the health service in England.

76.b.2B

For the purposes of subsection (2)(da) (as read with subsection  (2A) )—

76.b.2B.a

a reference to the effects of decisions in relation to the health and well-
being of the people of England includes a reference to the effects of the
decisions in relation to inequalities between the people of England with
respect to their health and well-being;

76.b.2B.b

a reference to effects of decisions in relation to the quality of services
provided to individuals includes a reference to the effects of the decisions
in relation to inequalities between individuals with respect to the benefits
that they can obtain from those services.

76.b.2C

In subsection (2A) “ relevant bodies ” means—

76.b.2C.a

NHS England,

76.b.2C.b

integrated care boards,

76.b.2C.c

NHS trusts established under section 25, and

76.b.2C.d

NHS foundation trusts.

#### NHS payment scheme

##### The NHS payment scheme

77

Schedule 10—

77.a

replaces the national tariff with the NHS payment scheme, and

77.b

makes provision relating to the NHS payment scheme.

#### Patient choice and procurement

##### Regulations as to patient choice

78

78.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

78.2

In section 6E (standing rules)—

78.2.a

in subsection (1)—

78.2.a.i

for “may” substitute  “must” ;

78.2.a.ii

for “or” substitute  “and” ;

78.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

78.2.b.1A

The regulations must make provision as to the arrangements that NHS England
and integrated care boards must make, in exercising their commissioning
functions, for enabling persons to whom specified treatments or other
specified services are to be provided to make choices with respect to
specified aspects of them.

78.2.b.1B

The regulations may make other provision for the purpose of securing that, in
exercising their commissioning functions, NHS England and integrated care
boards protect and promote the rights of persons to make choices in relation
to treatments or other services, where those rights—

78.2.b.1B.a

arise by virtue of regulations under subsection  (1A) , or

78.2.b.1B.b

are described in the NHS Constitution.

;

78.2.c

omit subsection (2)(c).

78.3

After section 6E insert—

########### Enforcement of section 6E regulations relating to patient choice

78.3.6F

78.3.6F.1

NHS England may investigate whether an integrated care board has failed or is
likely to fail to comply with a requirement imposed by regulations under
section 6E (1A)  or  (1B)  (a “patient choice requirement”).

78.3.6F.2

NHS England may direct an integrated care board—

78.3.6F.2.a

to put in place measures for the purpose of preventing failures to comply with
patient choice requirements or mitigating the effect of such failures, or

78.3.6F.2.b

where an investigation under subsection  (1)  has been carried out, to remedy
a failure to comply with patient choice requirements.

78.3.6F.3

Where an investigation under subsection  (1)  is being or has been carried
out, NHS England may accept from the integrated care board an undertaking that
it will take any action falling within subsection  (2)(a)  or  (b)  that is
specified in the undertaking, within a period that is so specified.

78.3.6F.4

Where NHS England accepts an undertaking under subsection  (3) , NHS England
may not—

78.3.6F.4.a

continue to carry out any ongoing investigation under subsection  (1)  so far
as relating to matters to which the undertaking relates, or

78.3.6F.4.b

give a direction under subsection  (2)  in relation to those matters,

unless the integrated care board fails to comply with the undertaking.

78.3.6F.5

If an integrated care board from which NHS England has accepted an undertaking
under subsection  (3)  complies partially with the undertaking, NHS England
must take the partial compliance into account in deciding whether to do
something mentioned in subsection  (4) (a)  or  (b) .

78.3.6F.6

Schedule 1ZA makes further provision about undertakings.

########### Guidance relating to patient choice

78.3.6G

78.3.6G.1

NHS England must publish guidance about how it intends to exercise powers
conferred on it by section  6F  and Schedule 1ZA.

78.3.6G.2

Before publishing guidance under this section, NHS England must obtain the
approval of the Secretary of State.

78.4

In section 13U (annual report), in subsection (2)(c), for the words from
“sections” to the end substitute

or by virtue of—

      section 6E (1A)  and  (1B) ;           section 13E;           section
13G;           section 13I;           section 13Q.

78.5

Schedule 11 inserts into the National Health Service Act 2006 a new Schedule
1ZA (undertakings by integrated care boards).

##### Procurement regulations

79

After section 12ZA of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

######### Procurement

########## Procurement regulations

79.12ZB

79.12ZB.1

Regulations may make provision in relation to the processes to be followed and
objectives to be pursued by relevant authorities in the procurement of—

79.12ZB.1.a

health care services for the purposes of the health service in England, and

79.12ZB.1.b

other goods or services that are procured together with those health care
services.

79.12ZB.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  must include provision specifying steps to
be taken when following a competitive tendering process.

79.12ZB.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  must, in relation to the procurement of all
health care services to which they apply, make provision for the purposes of—

79.12ZB.3.a

ensuring transparency;

79.12ZB.3.b

ensuring fairness;

79.12ZB.3.c

ensuring that compliance can be verified;

79.12ZB.3.d

managing conflicts of interest.

79.12ZB.4

NHS England must publish such guidance as it considers appropriate about
compliance with the regulations.

79.12ZB.5

A relevant authority must have regard to guidance published under this
section.

79.12ZB.6

Before publishing guidance under this section, NHS England must obtain the
approval of the Secretary of State.

79.12ZB.7

In this section—

      “ health care service ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the Health
and Social Care Act 2012 (see section 150 of that Act);           “ relevant
authority ” means—         a combined authority;           an integrated care
board;           a local authority in England;           NHS England;
an NHS foundation trust;           an NHS trust established under section 25.

##### Procurement and patient choice: consequential amendments etc

80

80.1

In the National Health Service Act 2006—

80.1.a

in section 12E (Secretary of State’s duty as respects variation in provision
of health services), for subsection (2) substitute—

80.1.a.2

The functions mentioned in this subsection are the functions of the Secretary
of State under—

80.1.a.2.a

section 6E;

80.1.a.2.b

section 12ZB;

80.1.a.2.c

section 13A.

;

80.1.b

in section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection (6),
after paragraph (zzd), insert—

80.1.b.zze

regulations under section 12ZB,

.

80.2

Omit sections 75 to 78 of, and Schedule 9 to, the Health and Social Care Act
2012 (regulations etc relating to procurement, patient choice and
competition).

80.3

In section 40 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(investigation of procurement functions), in subsection (7), omit paragraph
(b) and the “or” before it.

80.4

The National Health Service (Procurement, Patient Choice and Competition) (No.
2) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/500 ) are revoked.

##### Eradicating slavery and human trafficking in supply chains

81

81.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

81.2

After section 12ZB (inserted by section 79) insert—

########### Eradicating slavery and human trafficking in supply chains

81.2.12ZC

81.2.12ZC.1

The Secretary of State must by regulations make such provision as the
Secretary of State thinks appropriate with a view to eradicating the use in
the health service in England of goods or services that are tainted by slavery
and human trafficking.

81.2.12ZC.2

The regulations may, in particular, include—

81.2.12ZC.2.a

provision in connection with the processes to be followed by public bodies in
the procurement of goods or services for the purposes of the health service in
England (including provision as to circumstances in which a supplier is
excluded from consideration for the award of a contract);

81.2.12ZC.2.b

provision as to steps that must be taken by public bodies for assessing and
addressing the risk of slavery and human trafficking taking place in relation
to people involved in health service supply chains;

81.2.12ZC.2.c

provision as to matters for which provision must be made in contracts for
goods or services entered into by public bodies for the purposes of the health
service in England.

81.2.12ZC.3

In this section—

      “ health service supply chains ” means supply chains for providing goods
or services for the purposes of the health service in England;           “
public body ” means a body exercising functions of a public nature;
“ slavery and human trafficking ” has the meaning given by section 54(12) of
the Modern Slavery Act 2015;           “tainted”: goods or services are
“tainted” by slavery and human trafficking if slavery and human trafficking
takes place in relation to anyone involved in the supply chain for providing
those goods or services.

81.3

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection (6),
after paragraph (zze) (inserted by section 80), insert—

81.3.zzf

regulations under section 12ZC,

.

#### Competition

##### Duty to provide assistance to the CMA

82

82.1

After section  13SB  of the National Health Service Act 2006 (inserted by
section 34 (2)  of this Act) insert—

########### Provision of regulatory information or assistance to the CMA

82.1.13SC

82.1.13SC.1

NHS England must give the Competition and Markets Authority (“the CMA”)—

82.1.13SC.1.a

any regulatory information that the CMA may require to enable the CMA to
exercise its relevant functions,

82.1.13SC.1.b

any other regulatory information it considers would assist the CMA in
exercising its relevant functions, and

82.1.13SC.1.c

any other assistance the CMA may require to assist the CMA in exercising its
relevant functions.

82.1.13SC.2

In this section—

      “ regulatory information ” means information held by NHS England in
connection with—         its regulatory functions falling within section  13SB
(2)(a)  or  (b) , or           its functions under—         sections  6F  and
Schedule 1ZA (patient choice: enforcement);           sections  27A  and  27C
(NHS trusts: oversight and support and recommendations about restructuring);
“ relevant functions ”, in relation to the CMA, means its functions under the
Competition Act 1998 and the Enterprise Act 2002 so far as those functions are
exercisable on behalf of the CMA by the CMA Board or a CMA group (within the
meaning of Schedule 4 to the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013).

82.2

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012, omit section 80 (co-operation between
monitor and CMA).

##### Mergers of providers: removal of CMA powers

83

83.1

After section 72 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

########### NHS trusts and foundation trusts: exemption from merger legislation

############ Exemption from Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002

83.1.72A

83.1.72A.1

For the purposes of Part 3 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (mergers), a relevant
merger situation is not to be treated as having been created where two or more
relevant NHS enterprises cease to be distinct enterprises.

83.1.72A.2

But subsection (1) does not apply to a case where two or more relevant NHS
enterprises and one or more enterprises that are not relevant NHS enterprises
cease to be distinct enterprises.

83.1.72A.3

In this section “ relevant NHS enterprise ” means the activities, or part of
the activities, of—

83.1.72A.3.a

an NHS trust established under section 25;

83.1.72A.3.b

an NHS foundation trust.

83.2

Omit section 79 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (competition: mergers
involving NHS foundation trusts).

##### Removal of functions relating to competition etc

84

84.1

Omit sections 72 and 73 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (Monitor and
CMA: concurrent functions).

84.2

Schedule 12 contains consequential amendments.

##### Removal of CMA’s involvement in licensing etc

85

85.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

85.2

In section 95 (licensing: special conditions), in subsection (1)—

85.2.a

in paragraph (a), omit “with the consent of the applicant,”;

85.2.b

in paragraph (b), omit “with the consent of the licence holder,”.

85.3

In section 100 (modification of standard conditions)—

85.3.a

omit subsections (6) to (9);

85.3.b

in subsection (11) omit “and section 101”.

85.4

Omit section 101 (modification references to the CMA).

85.5

In section 103 (standard condition as to transparency of certain criteria), in
subsection (3)—

85.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “the powers conferred on Monitor by sections 100, 101(7)
and paragraph 7(2) of Schedule 10” substitute  “the power conferred on NHS
England by section 100” ;

85.5.b

omit paragraph (b) but not the “and” at the end.

85.6

In section 141 (levy on providers: consultation), in subsection (8), omit “and
section 142”.

85.7

Omit section 142 (levy on providers: responses to consultation).

85.8

In section 304 (regulations, orders and directions), in subsection (5), omit
paragraphs (d) and (j).

85.9

Omit Schedule 10 (references by Monitor to the CMA).

#### Miscellaneous

##### Special Health Authorities: removal of 3 year limit

86

86.1

In the National Health Service Act 2006—

86.1.a

omit section 28A (three year limit for special health authorities);

86.1.b

in section 272(6), omit paragraph (zc).

86.2

In the NHS Counter Fraud (Establishment, Constitution, and Staff and Other
Transfer Provisions) Order 2017 ( S.I. 2017/958 )—

86.2.a

in article 2, omit the definition of “the abolition date”;

86.2.b

omit Part 4 (including Schedule 3) (abolition of the authority).

86.3

In consequence of subsection (1), in the Health and Social Care Act 2012, omit
section 48.

##### Tidying up etc provisions about accounts of certain NHS bodies

87

87.1

After section 29 of the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

########### Special Health Authorities: accounts and audit

87.1.29A

87.1.29A.1

In this section a reference to a Special Health Authority is to a Special
Health Authority which—

87.1.29A.1.a

performs functions only or mainly in respect of England, or

87.1.29A.1.b

neither performs functions only or mainly in respect of England, nor performs
functions only or mainly in respect of Wales.

87.1.29A.2

A Special Health Authority must keep proper accounts and proper records in
relation to the accounts.

87.1.29A.3

The Secretary of State may give a Special Health Authority directions as to
the form in which its accounts must be kept.

87.1.29A.4

A Special Health Authority must prepare, in respect of each financial year,
annual accounts in such form as the Secretary of State may direct.

87.1.29A.5

A Special Health Authority must send copies of any annual accounts prepared by
it under subsection  (4) —

87.1.29A.5.a

to the Secretary of State, by such date as the Secretary of State may direct,
and

87.1.29A.5.b

to the Comptroller and Auditor General, as soon as is reasonably practicable
following the end of the financial year in question.

87.1.29A.6

The Comptroller and Auditor General must examine, certify and report on the
annual accounts.

87.1.29A.7

The Special Health Authority must lay before Parliament—

87.1.29A.7.a

a copy of the annual accounts, and

87.1.29A.7.b

the Comptroller and Auditor General’s report on them.

87.1.29A.8

Nothing in subsection  (2)  requires any annual accounts prepared by a Special
Health Authority to include matters relating to a charitable trust of which it
is a trustee.

87.1.29A.9

Nothing in subsection  (4)  has effect in relation to accounts relating to a
charitable trust of which the Special Health Authority is a trustee.

87.2

In Schedule 4 to that Act (NHS trusts), after paragraph 11 insert—

########### Accounts and audit

87.2.11A

87.2.11A.1

An NHS trust must keep proper accounts and proper records in relation to the
accounts.

87.2.11A.2

The Secretary of State may give an NHS trust directions as to the form in
which its accounts must be kept.

87.2.11A.3

An NHS trust must prepare, in respect of each financial year, annual accounts
in such form as the Secretary of State may direct.

87.2.11A.4

For the audit of the annual accounts, see the Local Audit and Accountability
Act 2014 (and, in particular, section 4 of that Act).

87.2.11A.5

The Comptroller and Auditor General may examine—

87.2.11A.5.a

the annual accounts and any records relating to them, and

87.2.11A.5.b

any report on them by the auditor or auditors.

87.2.11A.6

An NHS trust must send a copy of its audited annual accounts to NHS England by
such date as NHS England may direct.

87.2.11A.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect in relation to accounts relating to
a charitable trust of which an NHS trust is a trustee.

87.2.11A.8

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (3)  requires any accounts prepared by an NHS trust
to include matters relating to a charitable trust of which it is a trustee.

87.3

In consequence of subsections  (1)  and  (2) —

87.3.a

in section 6(3)(b) of the National Audit Act 1983, omit “Schedule 15 to the
National Health Service Act 2006 or”;

87.3.b

in the National Health Service Act 2006, omit—

87.3.b.i

section 232 and the italic heading before it;

87.3.b.ii

section 277(3)(n);

87.3.b.iii

Schedule 15;

87.3.c

in section 57(2A) of the Local Electoral Administration and Registration
Services (Scotland) Act 2006, omit “(apart from in Schedule 15)”.

##### Meaning of “health” in NHS Act 2006

88

In section 275(1) of the National Health Service Act 2006 (interpretation), at
the appropriate place insert—

      “ health ” includes mental health;

.

##### Repeal of spent powers to make transfer schemes etc

89

89.1

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012, omit—

89.1.a

sections 300 and 301;

89.1.b

section 308(3)(i);

89.1.c

Schedules 22 and 23.

89.2

For section 302 of that Act substitute—

########### Transfer schemes in respect of previously transferred property

89.2.302

89.2.302.1

This section applies in relation to any property, rights or liabilities
transferred under a property transfer scheme made under section 300(1) (before
its repeal) from a Primary Care Trust, a Strategic Health Authority or the
Secretary of State to a Special Health Authority or a qualifying company.

89.2.302.2

The Secretary of State may make a scheme for the transfer of any such
property, rights or liabilities from the Special Health Authority or
qualifying company to any of the following—

89.2.302.2.a

a Minister of the Crown;

89.2.302.2.b

NHS England;

89.2.302.2.c

an integrated care board;

89.2.302.2.d

an NHS trust;

89.2.302.2.e

an NHS foundation trust;

89.2.302.2.f

a qualifying company.

89.2.302.3

The things that may be transferred under a scheme under this section include—

89.2.302.3.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

89.2.302.3.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

89.2.302.3.c

criminal liabilities, except where transfer is to a Minister of the Crown.

89.2.302.4

A transfer scheme under this section may make supplementary, incidental,
transitional and consequential provision and may in particular—

89.2.302.4.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

89.2.302.4.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by the transferor in
respect of anything transferred;

89.2.302.4.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

89.2.302.4.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee.

89.2.302.5

A transfer scheme under this section may make provision for the shared
ownership or use of property.

89.2.302.6

A transfer scheme under this section may provide—

89.2.302.6.a

for the scheme to be modified by agreement after it comes into effect, and

89.2.302.6.b

for any such modifications to have effect from the date when the original
scheme comes into effect.

89.2.302.7

In this section references to the transfer of property include references to
the grant of a lease.

89.2.302.8

In this section “ qualifying company ” means—

89.2.302.8.a

a company which is formed under section 223 of the National Health Service Act
2006 and wholly or partly owned by the Secretary of State or NHS England, or

89.2.302.8.b

a subsidiary of a company which is formed under that section and wholly owned
by the Secretary of State.

89.3

In Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act 1958 (bodies the records of which are
public records), in Part 1 of the Table at the end of paragraph 3, omit “or
section 300 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012”.

##### Abolition of Local Education and Training Boards

90

90.1

The committees of Health Education England called Local Education and Training
Boards are abolished.

90.2

In consequence, the Care Act 2014 is amended as follows.

90.3

In section 100 (objectives, priorities and outcomes), in subsection (4)—

90.3.a

after paragraph (a), insert  “and” ;

90.3.b

omit paragraph (c) and the “and” before it.

90.4

Omit sections 103 to 107 and the italic heading before them (local functions).

90.5

In section 108 (tariffs), in subsection (9), omit “an LETB or”.

90.6

In section 119 (interpretation and supplementary provision), in the table in
subsection (1), omit the entries relating to the following—

    appointment criteria

;

    commissioner of health services

;

    LETB

.

90.7

In Schedule 5 (Health Education England)—

90.a

in paragraph 9, in sub-paragraph (3), omit “(including a committee which HEE
is required to appoint under section 103(1) (LETBs))”;

90.b

in paragraph 13—

90.b.i

in sub-paragraph (2), omit “(but see sub-paragraph (5))”;

90.b.ii

omit sub-paragraph (5);

90.c

in paragraph 26, in sub-paragraph (2)—

90.c.i

omit paragraph (a);

90.c.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “other”;

90.d

in paragraph 27, in sub-paragraph (2)—

90.d.i

omit paragraph (a) and the “and” at the end;

90.d.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “other”.

90.8

Omit Schedule 6 (local education and training boards).

##### Hospital patients with care and support needs: repeals etc

91

91.1

In the Care Act 2014—

91.1.a

for section 74 substitute—

############# Discharge of hospital patients with care and support needs

91.1.a.74

91.1.a.74.1

Where a relevant trust is responsible for an adult hospital patient and
considers that the patient is likely to require care and support following
discharge from hospital, the relevant trust must, as soon as is feasible after
it begins making any plans relating to the discharge, take any steps that it
considers appropriate to involve—

91.1.a.74.1.a

the patient, and

91.1.a.74.1.b

any carer of the patient.

91.1.a.74.2

In performing the duty under subsection  (1) , a relevant trust must have
regard to any guidance issued by NHS England.

91.1.a.74.3

For the purposes of this section, a relevant trust is responsible for a
hospital patient if the relevant trust manages the hospital.

91.1.a.74.4

In this section—

      “ adult ” means a person aged 18 or over;           “ carer ” means an
individual who provides or intends to provide care for an adult, otherwise
than by virtue of a contract or as voluntary work;           “ relevant trust
” means—         an NHS trust established under section 25 of the National
Health Service Act 2006, or           an NHS foundation trust.

;

91.1.b

omit Schedule 3 (assessment notices etc in relation to the discharge of
hospital patients with care and support needs).

91.2

The Community Care (Delayed Discharges etc) Act 2003 is repealed.

91.3

In consequence of subsection  (1) —

91.3.a

in section 14 of the Coronavirus Act 2020, omit subsection (8);

91.3.b

the Care and Support (Discharge of Hospital Patients) Regulations 2014 ( S.I.
2014/2823 ) are revoked.

91.4

In consequence of subsection  (2) —

91.4.a

in Schedule 1 to the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970, omit the entry
relating to the Community Care (Delayed Discharges etc) Act 2003;

91.4.b

in the Children Act 1989—

91.4.b.i

in section 17ZA(6)(b), omit sub-paragraph (iii);

91.4.b.ii

in section 17ZD(8)(b), omit sub-paragraph (iii);

91.4.c

in Schedule 2 to the  Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 4)
, in Table 1—

91.4.c.i

in the English language text, omit the entry relating to the Community Care
(Delayed Discharges etc) Act 2003;

91.4.c.ii

in the Welsh language text, omit the entry relating to Deddf Gofal Cymunedol
(Rhyddhau Gohiriedig etc) 2003.

### Health and adult social care: information

#### Information about payments etc to persons in the health care sector

92

92.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations require manufacturers or commercial
suppliers of health care products, or connected persons, to—

92.1.a

publish information about payments or other benefits provided by them to
relevant persons, or

92.1.b

provide such information to the Secretary of State.

92.2

The regulations may make further provision about when and how the information
is to be published or provided.

92.3

The information may, in particular, include information about—

92.3.a

a payment or other benefit,

92.3.b

the person who provided it, or

92.3.c

the person who received it.

92.4

The regulations may make provision permitting or requiring the further
sharing, publication or use of the information.

92.5

The regulations may impose requirements on manufacturers or commercial
suppliers of health care products, or connected persons, about the retention
of information relating to payments or other benefits provided by them to
relevant persons.

92.6

The regulations may—

92.6.a

authorise the Secretary of State to designate as a “relevant scheme” any
scheme under which information about payments or other benefits to relevant
persons is collected or published by a person other than the Secretary of
State, if the Secretary of State considers that the provision of information
under the scheme would render compliance with some or all of the requirements
imposed by the regulations unnecessary;

92.6.b

create exceptions from requirements to publish or provide information imposed
by virtue of subsection  (1)  where information is provided under a relevant
scheme;

92.6.c

if such exceptions are created—

92.6.c.i

require a person who holds information mentioned in subsection  (1)  in
connection with the operation of a relevant scheme to provide the information
to the Secretary of State;

92.6.c.ii

permit or require the Secretary of State to publish the information.

92.7

The regulations may impose requirements on a person mentioned in subsection
(6)(c)(i)  about the retention of information mentioned there.

92.8

The provision for exceptions that may be made by the regulations includes
provision authorising the Secretary of State to grant an exception from a
requirement imposed by the regulations in a particular case, on grounds
specified in the regulations.

92.9

The regulations may provide that the disclosure of information under the
regulations does not breach—

92.9.a

an obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

92.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of the information (however imposed),
other than a restriction imposed by the data protection legislation.

92.10

Provision made by the regulations may, in particular, be framed by reference
to manufacturers or commercial suppliers with a specified connection to the
United Kingdom or a part of it.

92.11

In this section—

92.11.a

“ connected person ”, in relation to a manufacturer or commercial supplier,
means a person who has a connection, of a description specified in regulations
made by the Secretary of State, with the manufacturer or commercial supplier;

92.11.b

“ relevant person ” means—

92.11.b.i

a person who provides health care in the United Kingdom or a part of it,
whether or not under arrangements made by another person, or

92.11.b.ii

another person who carries on activities connected with health care provided
in the United Kingdom or a part of it and is of a description specified in
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

92.12

In this section—

      “ commercial supplier ”, in relation to a health care product, means a
person who supplies the product otherwise than in the course of providing
health care;           “ data protection legislation ” has the meaning given
by section 3(9) of the Data Protection Act 2018;           “ health care ”
means all forms of health care provided for individuals, whether relating to
physical or mental health;           “ health care product ” means a medicine,
medical device or other product which is supplied or prescribed in the course
of the provision of health care;           “ manufacturer ”, in relation to a
health care product, means a person who manufactures or assembles the product;
“ payments or other benefits ” includes any payment or other benefit—
wherever it is provided,           whether or not it is of a financial nature,
whether it is provided under a contract or otherwise, and           whether it
is provided directly or through a third party.

#### Regulations under section 92: enforcement

93

93.1

Regulations under section 92 (1)  may make provision for the enforcement of
requirements imposed by the regulations, including provision conferring on the
Secretary of State the power to impose a financial penalty on a person who,
without reasonable excuse—

93.1.a

fails to comply with such a requirement, or

93.1.b

provides information in response to such a requirement that is false or
misleading to a material extent.

93.2

The amount of the financial penalty is to be specified in, or determined in
accordance with, the regulations.

93.3

Regulations by virtue of subsection  (1)  must include provision—

93.3.a

requiring the Secretary of State, before imposing a financial penalty on a
person, to give the person written notice (a “notice of intent”) of the
proposed financial penalty;

93.3.b

ensuring that the person is given an opportunity to make representations about
the proposed financial penalty;

93.3.c

requiring the Secretary of State, after the period for making representations,
to decide whether to impose the financial penalty;

93.3.d

requiring the Secretary of State, if the Secretary of State decides to impose
the financial penalty, to give the person notice in writing (a “final notice”)
imposing the penalty;

93.3.e

enabling a person on whom a financial penalty is imposed to appeal to a court
or tribunal in accordance with the regulations;

93.3.f

as to the powers of the court or tribunal on such an appeal.

93.4

The provision that may be made by the regulations by virtue of subsection  (1)
includes provision—

93.4.a

enabling a notice of intent or final notice to be withdrawn or amended;

93.4.b

requiring the Secretary of State to withdraw a final notice in circumstances
specified in the regulations;

93.4.c

for a financial penalty to be increased by an amount specified in or
determined in accordance with the regulations in the event of late payment;

93.4.d

as to how financial penalties are recoverable.

#### Regulations under section 92: consent

94

94.1

Before making regulations under section 92, the Secretary of State must—

94.1.a

obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers in relation to any provision
which—

94.1.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament, if
contained in an Act of that Parliament, and

94.1.a.ii

is not merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision which would be
outside that legislative competence;

94.1.b

obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers in relation to any provision which—

94.1.b.i

would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru, if contained in an
Act of the Senedd, and

94.1.b.ii

is not merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision which would be
outside that legislative competence;

94.1.c

obtain the consent of the Department of Health in Northern Ireland in relation
to any provision which—

94.1.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

94.1.c.ii

is not merely incidental to, or consequential on, provision which would be
outside that legislative competence.

94.2

Consent is not required under subsection  (1)(c)  in relation to any provision
if—

94.2.a

a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly containing the provision
would require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the
Northern Ireland Act 1998, and

94.2.b

the provision does not affect, other than incidentally, a transferred matter
(within the meaning of that Act).

#### Information standards

95

95.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

95.2

In section 250 (information standards)—

95.2.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

95.2.a.2

For the purposes of this Part “an information standard” is a standard in
relation to the processing of information.

95.2.a.2A

An information standard must specify to whom it applies.

95.2.a.2B

An information standard may apply to one or more persons falling within the
following paragraphs—

95.2.a.2B.a

the Secretary of State;

95.2.a.2B.b

NHS England;

95.2.a.2B.c

a public body which exercises functions in connection with the provision of
health care or of adult social care in England;

95.2.a.2B.d

any person, other than a public body, who is required to be registered under
Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 in respect of the
carrying on of a regulated activity (within the meaning of Part 1 of that
Act).

;

95.2.b

in subsection (3), for “services” substitute  “care” ;

95.2.c

omit subsection (5);

95.2.d

for subsection (6) substitute—

95.2.d.6

The Secretary of State must—

95.2.d.6.a

have regard to any information standard published by NHS England that applies
to the Secretary of State, and

95.2.d.6.b

comply with any information standard published by the Secretary of State that
applies to the Secretary of State.

95.2.d.6A

Any other person to whom an information standard published under this section
applies must comply with the information standard, except in so far as the
requirement to comply is waived (see subsection (6B)).

95.2.d.6B

Regulations may confer on a person who publishes an information standard the
power to waive a person’s requirement to comply with the information standard
(in whole or in part and generally or for a specific period).

95.2.d.6C

The regulations may include provision—

95.2.d.6C.a

limiting the circumstances in which waivers may be granted;

95.2.d.6C.b

setting out the procedure to be followed in connection with waivers;

95.2.d.6C.c

requiring an information standard to include specified information about
waivers.

95.2.d.6D

For enforcement of information standards against persons other than public
bodies, see section 277E.

;

95.2.e

in subsection (7)—

95.2.e.i

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ health care ” includes all forms of health care whether relating to
physical or mental health and also includes procedures that are similar to
forms of medical or surgical care but are not provided in connection with a
medical condition;

;

95.2.e.ii

omit the definition of “health services”.

95.3

For section 251 substitute—

########## Information standards: procedure etc

95.3.251

95.3.251.1

Regulations—

95.3.251.1.a

must make provision about the procedure to be followed in connection with the
preparation and publication of information standards under section 250;

95.3.251.1.b

may require an information standard published under section 250 to be reviewed
periodically in accordance with the regulations.

95.3.251.2

Before laying a draft of regulations under subsection (1) before either House
of Parliament, the Secretary of State must consult such persons as the
Secretary of State considers appropriate.

95.3.251.3

For the purposes of section 250 the Secretary of State or NHS England may
adopt an information standard prepared or published by another person.

########## Information standards: compliance

95.3.251ZA

95.3.251ZA.1

The Secretary of State may require a person to provide the Secretary of State
with documents, records or other information for the purposes of monitoring
the person’s compliance with information standards published under section
250.

95.3.251ZA.2

A requirement under subsection (1) may specify—

95.3.251ZA.2.a

the form and manner in which information is to be provided, and

95.3.251ZA.2.b

when information is to be provided.

95.3.251ZA.3

A requirement under subsection (1) must be in writing.

95.3.251ZA.4

For enforcement of requirements under subsection (1) against persons other
than public bodies, see section 277E.

95.4

In section 251C (continuity of information: interpretation)—

95.4.a

after subsection (6) insert—

95.4.a.6A

“ Health services ” means services which must or may be provided as part of
the health service in England; and for that purpose “ the health service ” has
the same meaning as in the National Health Service Act 2006 (see section
275(1) of that Act).

;

95.4.b

for subsection (7) substitute—

95.4.b.7

“ Adult social care ” and “ public body ” have the same meaning as in section
250; and “processes and “processed” are to be read in accordance with the
meaning of “processing” in that section.

95.5

In section 304 (regulations etc), in subsection (5), before paragraph (k)
insert—

95.5.ja

regulations under section 250(6B) or 251(1) (regulations about waiver of
information standards and the procedure for setting standards);

.

#### Sharing anonymous health and social care information

96

After section 251C of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 insert—

######## Sharing of anonymous information

######### Sharing anonymous information

96.251D

96.251D.1

A health or social care body may—

96.251D.1.a

require another health or social care body to provide information, other than
personal information, that relates only to its activities in connection with
the provision of health services or adult social care in England;

96.251D.1.b

require a private health or social care provider to provide information, other
than personal information, that relates only to its activities in connection
with the provision of health services, or adult social care in England, in
pursuance of arrangements made with a public body.

96.251D.2

A health or social care body may impose a requirement under subsection  (1)
only for purposes related to its functions in connection with the provision of
health services or adult social care in England.

96.251D.3

Regulations may create exceptions to subsection  (1) , which may be framed by
reference to specified bodies or descriptions of bodies, descriptions of
information or otherwise.

96.251D.4

Subsection  (1)  does not require a person to process information so as to
render it into a form in which it must be provided.

96.251D.5

For enforcement of requirements under subsection  (1)(b) , see section  277E .

96.251D.6

For the purposes of this section—

      “ adult social care ” has the meaning given by section 250(7);
“ health services ” has the meaning given by section 251C(6A);           “
health or social care body ” means a public body which exercises functions in
connection with the provision of health services or of adult social care in
England;           “ personal information ” means information which is in a
form that—         identifies any individual, or           enables the
identity of any individual to be ascertained;                 “ private health
or social care provider ” means a person (other than a public body) who
provides health services, or adult social care in England, pursuant to
arrangements made with a health or social care body;           “ public body ”
has the meaning given by section 250(7).

#### General duties of the Health and Social Care Information Centre etc

97

97.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

97.2

In section 253(1) (general duties of the Information Centre)—

97.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (ca);

97.2.b

after paragraph (ca) insert—

97.2.b.cb

the need to promote the effective and efficient planning, development and
provision of health services and of adult social care in England,

;

97.2.c

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

, and

97.2.c.e

the need to balance the needs mentioned in this subsection against one
another, so far as they compete.

97.3

In section 261(1A) (other dissemination of information), for “the purposes of”
substitute  “purposes connected with” .

#### Collection of information from private health care providers

98

In section 259 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (powers to require and
request provision of information), in subsection (1)—

98.a

at the end of paragraph (a) omit “and”;

98.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

98.b.aa

require any health care provider, not within paragraph (a), to provide the
Centre with any information which the Centre considers it necessary or
expedient to have for the purposes of complying with a direction of the
Secretary of State under section 254, and

98.b.b

request any person to provide the Centre with any information which the Centre
considers it necessary or expedient to have for the purposes of any function
it exercises by virtue of this Chapter.

;

98.c

in subsection (2), for “Those persons” substitute  “The persons mentioned in
this subsection” ;

98.d

omit subsection (4);

98.e

in subsection (5), after “subsection (1)(a)” insert  “or (aa)” ;

98.f

omit subsection (7);

98.g

in subsection (9), after “subsection” insert  “(1)(aa) or” ;

98.h

after subsection (10) insert—

98.h.10A

For enforcement of requirements under subsection (1)(a) or (aa) against
persons other than public bodies, see section  277E .

98.h.10B

In this section “ health care provider ” means a person who is required to be
registered under Chapter 2 of Part 1 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 in
respect of the carrying on of a regulated activity (within the meaning of Part
1 of that Act) involving or connected with the provision of health care.

#### Collection of information about adult social care

99

In Part 9 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012, after section 277 insert—

######## Information about adult social care

######### Provision of adult social care information to Secretary of State

99.277A

99.277A.1

The Secretary of State may require a relevant provider of adult social care
services to provide the Secretary of State with information that relates to—

99.277A.1.a

the person on whom the requirement is imposed,

99.277A.1.b

their activities in connection with the provision of adult social care in
England, or

99.277A.1.c

any person to whom they have provided —

99.277A.1.c.i

adult social care in England, or

99.277A.1.c.ii

adult social care, outside England, in pursuance of arrangements made by an
English local authority.

99.277A.2

The Secretary of State may impose a requirement under subsection  (1)  only if
the information is sought for purposes connected with the health care system,
or adult social care system, in England.

99.277A.3

A requirement under subsection  (1)  may specify—

99.277A.3.a

the form and manner in which information is to be provided, and

99.277A.3.b

when information is to be provided.

99.277A.4

A requirement under subsection  (1)  must be in writing.

99.277A.5

The provision of information under this section—

99.277A.5.a

does not breach any obligation of confidence owed by the person providing it,
but

99.277A.5.b

is subject to any express restriction on disclosure imposed by any enactment
(other than a restriction which allows disclosure if authorised by an
enactment).

99.277A.6

For enforcement of requirements under subsection  (1) , see section  277E .

99.277A.7

In this section—

      “adult social care”—         includes all forms of personal care and
other practical assistance provided for individuals who, by reason of age,
illness, disability, pregnancy, childbirth, dependence on alcohol or drugs, or
any other similar circumstances, are in need of such care or other assistance,
but           does not include anything provided by an establishment or agency
for which Her Majesty’s Chief Inspector of Education, Children’s Services and
Skills is the registration authority under section 5 of the Care Standards Act
2000;                 “ English local authority ” means—         a county
council in England;           a district council for an area in England for
which there is no county council;           a London borough council;
the Common Council of the City of London (in its capacity as a local
authority);                 “ relevant provider of adult social care services
” means a person who is required to be registered under Chapter 2 of Part 1 of
the Health and Social Care Act 2008 in respect of the carrying on of a
regulated activity (within the meaning of Part 1 of that Act) involving or
connected with the provision of adult social care.

######### Restrictions on onward disclosure of information

99.277B

99.277B.1

Information provided under section  277A  may not be disclosed by the
Secretary of State except for purposes connected with the health care system,
or adult social care system, in England.

99.277B.2

Commercially sensitive information provided under section  277A  may not be
disclosed by the Secretary of State (even for the purposes mentioned in
subsection  (1) ) unless the Secretary of State considers that the disclosure
is appropriate, having taken into account the public interest as well as the
interests of the person to whom the commercially sensitive information
relates.

99.277B.3

Subsections  (1)  and  (2)  do not restrict the disclosure of information
where—

99.277B.3.a

the person to whom the information relates has consented to the disclosure,

99.277B.3.b

the information has previously been lawfully disclosed to the public,

99.277B.3.c

the disclosure is in accordance with any court order,

99.277B.3.d

the disclosure is necessary or expedient for the purposes of protecting the
welfare of any individual,

99.277B.3.e

the disclosure is made to any person in circumstances where it is necessary or
expedient for the person to have the information for the purpose of exercising
functions of that person conferred under or by virtue of any provision of this
or any other Act,

99.277B.3.f

the disclosure is in connection with the investigation of a criminal offence
(whether or not in the United Kingdom), or

99.277B.3.g

the disclosure is for the purpose of criminal proceedings (whether or not in
the United Kingdom).

99.277B.4

In this section “ commercially sensitive information ” means commercial
information whose disclosure the Secretary of State thinks might significantly
harm the legitimate business interests of the person to whom it relates.

######### Directions to certain bodies to exercise functions under this Chapter

99.277C

99.277C.1

The Secretary of State may direct the Health and Social Care Information
Centre to exercise the functions of the Secretary of State under section  277A
(and where a direction is given, section  277B  applies accordingly).

99.277C.2

The Secretary of State may direct a Special Health Authority performing
functions only or mainly in respect of England to exercise the functions of
the Secretary of State under section  277A  (and where a direction is given,
section  277B  applies accordingly).

99.277C.3

The Secretary of State may give directions to a body about the exercise of any
functions that it is directed to exercise under subsection  (1)  or  (2)
(including directions as to the processing of information that the body
obtains in exercising those functions).

######### Arrangements with third parties

99.277D

99.277D.1

The Secretary of State may make arrangements for any person prescribed by
regulations under this subsection to exercise the functions of the Secretary
of State under section  277A  (and where arrangements are made, section  277B
applies accordingly).

99.277D.2

Arrangements under subsection  (1)  may—

99.277D.2.a

provide for the Secretary of State to make payments to the person;

99.277D.2.b

make provision as to the circumstances in which any such payments are to be
repaid to the Secretary of State.

99.277D.3

Section 304(9) (differential provision) applies in relation to the power to
make arrangements under subsection  (1)  as it applies to a power of the
Secretary of State to give directions under this Act.

#### Enforcement of duties against private providers

100

100.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

100.2

After section  277D  (inserted by section 99 of this Act) insert—

########## Enforcement

########### Enforcement of provisions under this Part

100.2.277E

100.2.277E.1

Regulations may make provision conferring on the Secretary of State the power
to impose a financial penalty on a person, other than a public body, who
without reasonable excuse—

100.2.277E.1.a

fails to comply with an information standard (unless the requirement for the
person to comply has been waived by virtue of regulations under section
250(6B));

100.2.277E.1.b

fails to comply with a requirement to provide information imposed under
section 251ZA(1),  251D (1)(b) , 259(1)(a) or (aa) or  277A (1);

100.2.277E.1.c

provides information in response to such a requirement that is false or
misleading to a material extent.

100.2.277E.2

The amount of the financial penalty is to be specified in, or determined in
accordance with, the regulations.

100.2.277E.3

The regulations must include provision—

100.2.277E.3.a

requiring the Secretary of State, before imposing a financial penalty on a
person, to give the person written notice (a “notice of intent”) of the
proposed financial penalty;

100.2.277E.3.b

ensuring that the person is given an opportunity to make representations about
the proposed financial penalty;

100.2.277E.3.c

requiring the Secretary of State, after the period for making representations,
to decide whether to impose the financial penalty;

100.2.277E.3.d

requiring the Secretary of State, if the Secretary of State decides to impose
the financial penalty, to give the person notice in writing (a “final notice”)
imposing the penalty;

100.2.277E.3.e

enabling a person on whom a financial penalty is imposed to appeal to the
First-tier Tribunal in accordance with the regulations;

100.2.277E.3.f

as to the powers of the Tribunal on such an appeal.

100.2.277E.4

The provision that may be made by the regulations includes provision—

100.2.277E.4.a

enabling a notice of intent or final notice to be withdrawn or amended;

100.2.277E.4.b

requiring the Secretary of State to withdraw a final notice in circumstances
specified in the regulations;

100.2.277E.4.c

for a financial penalty to be increased by an amount specified in or
determined in accordance with the regulations in the event of late payment;

100.2.277E.4.d

for the recovery of financial penalties in the county court.

100.2.277E.5

In this section “ public body ” has the meaning given by section 250(7).

########### Directions to Special Health Authority to exercise functions under section 

100.2.277F

The Secretary of State may—

100.2.277F.a

direct a Special Health Authority performing functions only or mainly in
respect of England to exercise the functions of the Secretary of State under
regulations made under section  277E ;

100.2.277F.b

give the Special Health Authority directions about the exercise of those
functions (including directions as to the processing of information that the
body obtains in exercising those functions).

100.3

In section 304 (regulations etc), in subsection (5), after paragraph (ja)
(inserted by section 95 of this Act) insert—

100.3.jb

regulations under section  277E  (regulations about enforcement);

.

#### Medicine information systems

101

101.1

The Medicines and Medical Devices Act 2021 is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (9) .

101.2

In Part 2, for the heading of Chapter 1 substitute  “Regulations: general” .

101.3

After that Chapter insert—

########## Regulations: information systems

########### Information systems

101.3.7A

101.3.7A.1

The appropriate authority may by regulations make provision about the
establishment and operation by the Health and Social Care Information Centre
(“the Information Centre”) of one or more information systems for purposes
relating to—

101.3.7A.1.a

the safety of human medicines, including the safety of clinical decisions
relating to human medicines;

101.3.7A.1.b

the quality and efficacy of human medicines.

101.3.7A.2

The regulations may (among other things) make provision—

101.3.7A.2.a

about the information in relation to human medicines which may or must be
entered or retained in an information system established under subsection  (1)
;

101.3.7A.2.b

requiring information to be provided to the Information Centre for the
purposes of its functions under the regulations;

101.3.7A.2.c

about the use or disclosure of information contained in an information system
established under subsection  (1) ;

101.3.7A.2.d

requiring the Information Centre to have regard to specified matters in
exercising its functions under the regulations.

101.3.7A.3

The provision mentioned in subsection  (2)(a)  and  (b)  may relate to—

101.3.7A.3.a

information for specified purposes,

101.3.7A.3.b

information that the Information Centre considers it necessary or expedient to
have for the purposes of its functions under the regulations,

101.3.7A.3.c

information (including information relating to individuals) which is of a
specified description, or

101.3.7A.3.d

information (including information relating to individuals) which is of a
description set out in a direction in writing given by the appropriate
authority.

101.3.7A.4

The provision mentioned in subsection  (2)(b)  may include provision—

101.3.7A.4.a

requiring, or enabling the Information Centre to require, specified persons or
descriptions of persons to whom subsection  (5)  applies to provide
information to the Information Centre;

101.3.7A.4.b

about the manner in which, and the time at which, those persons must provide
information, or for those matters to be determined by the Information Centre;

101.3.7A.4.c

about any procedural steps the Information Centre must follow in requiring a
person to provide information to it;

101.3.7A.4.d

requiring specified persons or descriptions of persons to whom subsection  (5)
applies to record or retain information which they are, or may be, required to
provide to the Information Centre under the regulations;

101.3.7A.4.e

in relation to the enforcement of any requirement imposed by or under the
regulations.

101.3.7A.5

This subsection applies to any person who provides services, or exercises any
powers or duties, relating to—

101.3.7A.5.a

human medicines,

101.3.7A.5.b

health, or

101.3.7A.5.c

education.

101.3.7A.6

The provision mentioned in subsection  (2)(c)  may include provision about—

101.3.7A.6.a

the analysis by the Information Centre of information that is contained in an
information system (whether alone or in combination with other information)
for the purposes mentioned in subsection  (1)  or for other purposes;

101.3.7A.6.b

the publication by the Information Centre of information that is contained in
an information system or has been analysed in combination with such
information;

101.3.7A.6.c

the disclosure (other than by way of publication) of information mentioned in
paragraph  (b)  to specified persons or descriptions of persons, or for
specified purposes;

101.3.7A.6.d

the use or further disclosure by any person of information disclosed to them
under the regulations.

101.3.7A.7

Regulations conferring on the appropriate authority a power to give a
direction by virtue of subsection  (3)(d)  must —

101.3.7A.7.a

provide that the power includes power to vary or revoke the directions by a
subsequent direction, and

101.3.7A.7.b

in the case of a power exercisable in relation to Wales or Scotland, require
the Secretary of State—

101.3.7A.7.b.i

where a proposed direction relates to Wales, to consult the Welsh Ministers
before giving it, and

101.3.7A.7.b.ii

where a proposed direction relates to Scotland, to consult the Scottish
Ministers before giving it.

101.3.7A.8

Where regulations under subsection (1) include provision by virtue of
subsection (4)(a) which requires, or enables the Information Centre to
require, the provision of individual health information held for the purposes
of the health service established under section 1 of the National Health
Service (Scotland) Act 1978, the regulations must provide for the information
to be collected by the Scottish Ministers, or a person designated by them, on
behalf of the Information Centre, subject to specified exceptions.

101.3.7A.9

Regulations by virtue of subsection (8) may—

101.3.7A.9.a

confer powers or duties (including discretions) on the Scottish Ministers, a
designated person or the Information Centre;

101.3.7A.9.b

provide for powers or duties conferred on the Scottish Ministers to be treated
for the purposes of section 2 of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act
1978 as functions relating to the health service (within the meaning of that
Act).

101.3.7A.10

Where regulations under subsection (1) include provision by virtue of
subsection (4)(a) which requires, or enables the Information Centre to
require, the provision of individual health information held for the purposes
of the health service in Wales, the regulations must provide for the
information to be collected by the Welsh Ministers, or a person designated by
them, on behalf of the Information Centre, subject to specified exceptions.

101.3.7A.11

Regulations by virtue of subsection (10) may confer powers or duties
(including discretions) on the Welsh Ministers, a designated person or the
Information Centre.

101.3.7A.12

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may provide that the disclosure of
information by virtue of this section does not breach—

101.3.7A.12.a

an obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

101.3.7A.12.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of the information (however imposed),
other than a restriction imposed by the data protection legislation.

101.3.7A.13

In this section—

      “ data protection legislation ” has the meaning given by section 3(9) of
the Data Protection Act 2018;           “ health service ”, in relation to
Wales, has the meaning given by section 206(1) of the National Health Service
(Wales) Act 2006;           “ human medicine ” has the same meaning as in Part
2 (see section 9);           “ individual health information ” means
information (however recorded) which relates to—         the physical or
mental health or condition of an individual,           the diagnosis of an
individual’s condition, or           an individual’s care or treatment,
or is (to any extent) derived directly or indirectly from information relating
to any of those matters;           “ specified ” means specified in
regulations under subsection  (1) .

########### Offence of disclosing information

101.3.7B

101.3.7B.1

A person to whom information is disclosed under regulations under section  7A
(1)  commits an offence if the person uses or discloses that information in
contravention of the regulations.

101.3.7B.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

101.3.7B.2.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine or to both;

101.3.7B.2.b

on summary conviction in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 6 months, to a fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard
scale or to both.

101.3.7B.3

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, the reference in subsection  (2)(a)
to 51 weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

101.4

In section 19 (medical devices: information systems)—

101.4.a

in subsection (6)—

101.4.a.i

in paragraph (b) for “contained in an information system” substitute  “that is
contained in an information system or has been analysed in combination with
such information” ;

101.4.a.ii

in paragraph (c) for “contained in an information system” substitute
“mentioned in paragraph (b)” ;

101.4.b

after subsection (7) insert—

101.4.b.7A

Regulations under this section may provide that the disclosure of information
by virtue of this section does not breach—

101.4.b.7A.a

an obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

101.4.b.7A.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of the information (however imposed),
other than a restriction imposed by the data protection legislation.

101.5

In section 43 (power to make consequential etc provision)—

101.5.a

in subsection (1), for “This section” substitute  “Subsection (2)” ;

101.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

101.5.b.3

Provision made by regulations under section 7A or 19 by virtue of subsection
(2)(a) may include provision—

101.5.b.3.a

changing the territorial extent of provisions of Chapter 2 of Part 9 of the
Health and Social Care Act 2012 (constitution and functions etc of the Health
and Social Care Information Centre), or

101.5.b.3.b

otherwise amending that Chapter.

101.6

In section 44 (scope of powers of Northern Ireland departments) after “2(1)”
insert  “, 7A(1)” .

101.7

In section 45 (consultation)—

101.7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

101.7.a.1A

In relation to proposed regulations under section 7A(1), the Secretary of
State must—

101.7.a.1A.a

where the regulations relate to Wales, specifically consult the Welsh
Ministers, and

101.7.a.1A.b

where the regulations relate to Scotland, specifically consult the Scottish
Ministers.

;

101.7.b

in subsection (6), for paragraph (a) (but not the “and” at the end)
substitute—

101.7.b.a

in relation to regulations made under section 2(1) or 7A(1), the appropriate
authority within the meaning given by section 2(6),

101.7.b.aa

in relation to regulations made under section 10(1), the appropriate authority
within the meaning given by section 10(6),

.

101.8

In section 46 (reporting requirements)—

101.8.a

in subsections (1), (3)(b) and (4)(a), after “2(1),” insert  “7A(1),” ;

101.8.b

in subsection (5), in paragraphs (a) and (b) of the definition of “relevant
authority”, after “2(1)” insert  “, 7A(1)” .

101.9

In section 47 (procedure for regulations), in subsection (2), after “2(1)”
insert  “, 7A(1)” .

101.10

In section 253 of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 (general duties of
Information Centre), after subsection (2) insert—

101.10.2A

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to the functions of the
Information Centre by virtue of the Medicines and Medical Devices Act 2021.

### Secretary of State's powers to transfer or delegate functions

#### Relevant bodies and Special Health Authorities

102

In this Part—

      “ relevant body ” means—         Health Education England,           the
Health and Social Care Information Centre,           the Health Research
Authority,           the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority,
the Human Tissue Authority, or           NHS England;                 “
Special Health Authority ” means a Special Health Authority established under
section 28 of the National Health Service Act 2006.

#### Power to transfer functions between bodies

103

103.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations transfer a function of a relevant
body to another relevant body.

103.2

Regulations under this section may be made only if the Secretary of State
considers that they serve the purpose of improving the exercise of public
functions, having regard to—

103.2.a

efficiency,

103.2.b

effectiveness,

103.2.c

economy, and

103.2.d

securing appropriate accountability to Ministers.

103.3

Regulations under this section may not transfer a function of NHS England if
the Secretary of State considers that to do so would make NHS England
redundant.

103.4

The provision which may be made by regulations under this section by virtue of
section 183(1)(a) includes provision—

103.4.a

modifying functions of either relevant body (see further section 105 (1) );

103.4.b

modifying the constitutional or funding arrangements of either relevant body
(see further section 105 (2)  and  (3) );

103.4.c

abolishing the relevant body from which functions are transferred, where the
Secretary of State considers that it is redundant as a result of the transfer
of functions.

103.5

Where—

103.5.a

regulations under this section contain provision for a body to exercise a
function that is exercisable in relation to Scotland, Wales or Northern
Ireland,

103.5.b

immediately before that provision takes effect, the function is exercisable by
another body whose constitutional arrangements contain provision (however
expressed) for the body to include a member whose experience, functions or
appointment are connected with that part of the United Kingdom, and

103.5.c

the Secretary of State considers that the constitutional arrangements of the
body referred to in paragraph  (a)  do not contain corresponding provision as
to membership,

the Secretary of State must make provision by virtue of section 183(1)(a)
modifying the constitutional arrangements of the body referred to in paragraph
(a)  so that they contain corresponding provision as to membership.

103.6

In this section, “ Minister ” means a Minister of the Crown (as defined by
section 8 of the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975).

#### Power to provide for exercise of functions of Secretary of State

104

104.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for a relevant body to
exercise specified functions of the Secretary of State on behalf of the
Secretary of State.

104.2

The functions that may be specified are —

104.2.a

any functions of the Secretary of State which relate to the health service in
England;

104.2.b

any other functions that the Secretary of State may provide for a Special
Health Authority to exercise.

104.3

The provision which may be made by regulations under this section by virtue of
section 183(1)(a) includes provision—

104.3.a

modifying functions of the relevant body (see further section 105 (1) );

104.3.b

modifying the constitutional or funding arrangements of the relevant body (see
further section 105 (2)  and  (3) ).

104.4

Where—

104.4.a

regulations under this section contain provision for a relevant body to
exercise a function of the Secretary of State that is exercisable in relation
to Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland,

104.4.b

immediately before that provision takes effect, the Secretary of State’s
function is exercisable by a body whose constitutional arrangements contain
provision (however expressed) for the body to include a member whose
experience, functions or appointment are connected with that part of the
United Kingdom, and

104.4.c

the Secretary of State considers that the relevant body’s constitutional
arrangements do not contain corresponding provision as to membership,

the Secretary of State must make provision by virtue of section 183(1)(a)
modifying the relevant body’s constitutional arrangements so that they contain
corresponding provision as to membership.

104.5

Regulations under this section may make provision for determining whether and
in what circumstances the Secretary of State or a relevant body is liable for
the exercise of the specified functions by the relevant body.

104.6

The specification of a function in regulations under this section does not
preclude the Secretary of State from exercising the function.

104.7

In this section “ the health service ” has the same meaning as in the National
Health Service Act 2006 (see section 275(1) of that Act).

#### Scope of powers

105

105.1

In sections 103 and 104, references to modifying the functions of a body
include—

105.1.a

conferring a function on the body;

105.1.b

abolishing a function of the body;

105.1.c

changing the purpose or objective for which the body exercises a function;

105.1.d

changing the conditions under which the body exercises a function.

105.2

In sections 103 and 104, references to the constitutional arrangements of a
body include matters relating to—

105.2.a

the name of the body;

105.2.b

the chair of the body (including qualifications and procedures for appointment
and functions);

105.2.c

members of the body (including the number of members, qualifications and
procedures for appointment and functions);

105.2.d

staff of the body exercising functions on its behalf (including qualifications
and procedures for appointment and functions);

105.2.e

the body’s powers to employ staff;

105.2.f

governing procedures and arrangements (including the role and membership of
committees and sub-committees);

105.2.g

reports and accounts.

105.3

In sections 103 and 104, references to modifying the funding arrangements of a
body include—

105.3.a

modifying the extent to which it is funded by a Minister;

105.3.b

conferring power on the body to charge fees for the exercise of a function
(and to determine their amount).

105.4

Regulations under section 103 or 104 may repeal and re-enact (but may not
create)—

105.4.a

a power to make subordinate legislation,

105.4.b

a power of forcible entry, search or seizure,

105.4.c

a power to compel the giving of evidence, or

105.4.d

a criminal offence.

105.5

The provision which may be made by regulations under section 103 or 104 may be
made by repealing, revoking or amending provision made by or under an Act,
whenever passed or made.

105.6

The provision which may be made by regulations under section 103 or 104 by
virtue of section 183(1)(a) includes provision repealing, revoking or amending
provision made by or under any of the following, whenever passed or made—

105.6.a

an Act;

105.6.b

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

105.6.c

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru;

105.6.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

105.7

In this section, “ Minister ” means a Minister of the Crown (as defined by
section 8 of the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975).

#### Transfer schemes in connection with regulations

106

106.1

The Secretary of State may, in connection with regulations under section 103
or 104, make one or more schemes for the transfer of property, rights and
liabilities (“transfer schemes”).

106.2

A transfer scheme in connection with regulations under section 103 may provide
for the transfer of property, rights or liabilities to any appropriate person
from the relevant body from which functions are transferred by the
regulations.

106.3

A transfer scheme in connection with regulations under section 104 may provide
for the transfer of property, rights or liabilities to any appropriate person
from—

106.3.a

the Secretary of State,

106.3.b

a Special Health Authority, or

106.3.c

any relevant body ceasing to exercise functions of the Secretary of State as a
result of the regulations.

106.4

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

106.4.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

106.4.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

106.4.c

criminal liabilities.

106.5

A transfer scheme may—

106.5.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

106.5.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, on behalf of or
in relation to the transferor in respect of anything transferred;

106.5.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to the transferor
in respect of anything transferred;

106.5.d

make provision for references to the transferor in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
transferee;

106.5.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

106.5.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

106.5.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

106.6

A transfer scheme may provide—

106.6.a

for modifications by agreement;

106.6.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

106.7

In subsection  (5)(f) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

106.8

For the purposes of this section—

106.8.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

106.8.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

106.9

For the purposes of subsection (8)(a)—

106.9.a

an individual who holds employment in the civil service of the State is to be
treated as employed by virtue of a contract of employment, and

106.9.b

the terms of the individual’s employment in the civil service of the State are
to be treated as constituting the terms of the contract of employment.

106.10

In this section “ appropriate person ” means—

106.10.a

any relevant body,

106.10.b

the Secretary of State,

106.10.c

an integrated care board,

106.10.d

a Special Health Authority, or

106.10.e

an NHS trust established under section 25 of the National Health Service Act
2006.

#### Transfer schemes: taxation

107

107.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

107.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under section 106, or

107.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

107.2

The provision which may be made under subsection  (1)(a)  includes in
particular provision for—

107.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

107.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

107.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

107.3

The provision which may be made under subsection (1)(b) includes in particular
provision for—

107.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of or in relation to the transfer;

107.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

107.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

107.4

Regulations under this section are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of the House of Commons.

107.5

In this section references to the transfer of property include the grant of a
lease.

107.6

In this section—

      “ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax,
value added tax, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax;           “ tax
provision ” means a provision of an enactment about a relevant tax.

#### Consent and consultation

108

108.1

Before making regulations under section 103 or 104, the Secretary of State
must—

108.1.a

obtain the consent of the Scottish Ministers in relation to any provision—

108.1.a.i

which would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament,
if contained in an Act of that Parliament, and is not merely incidental to, or
consequential on, provision which would be outside that legislative
competence, or

108.1.a.ii

which modifies the functions of the Scottish Ministers;

108.1.b

obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers in relation to any provision—

108.1.b.i

which would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru, if contained
in an Act of the Senedd, and is not merely incidental to, or consequential on,
provision which would be outside that legislative competence, or

108.1.b.ii

which modifies the functions of the Welsh Ministers;

108.1.c

obtain the consent of a Northern Ireland department in relation to any
provision—

108.1.c.i

which would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland
Assembly, if contained in an Act of that Assembly, and is not merely
incidental to, or consequential on, provision which would be outside that
legislative competence, or

108.1.c.ii

which modifies the functions of a Northern Ireland department.

108.2

Consent is not required under subsection  (1)(c)(i)  in relation to any
provision if—

108.2.a

a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly containing the provision
would require the consent of the Secretary of State under section 8 of the
Northern Ireland Act 1998, and

108.2.b

the provision does not affect, other than incidentally, a transferred matter
(within the meaning of that Act).

108.3

Before making regulations under section 103 or 104, the Secretary of State
must consult the following about a draft of the regulations—

108.3.a

any body to which the regulations relate, and

108.3.b

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

108.4

If, as a result of consultation under this section, it appears to the
Secretary of State appropriate to change the draft regulations, the Secretary
of State must carry out such further consultation with respect to the changes
as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

108.5

It is immaterial for the purposes of this section whether consent is obtained
or consultation is carried out before or after the commencement of this
section.

### The Health Services Safety Investigations Body

#### Introductory

##### Establishment of the HSSIB

109

109.1

A body corporate called the Health Services Safety Investigations Body is
established.

109.2

In this Part that body is referred to as “ the HSSIB ”.

109.3

Schedule 13 contains further provision about the HSSIB.

#### Investigations

##### Investigation of incidents with safety implications

110

110.1

The HSSIB has the function of investigating incidents that—

110.1.a

occur in England during the provision of health care services, and

110.1.b

have or may have implications for the safety of patients.

110.2

The purpose of the investigations is to—

110.2.a

identify risks to the safety of patients, and

110.2.b

address those risks by facilitating the improvement of systems and practices
in the provision of NHS services or other health care services in England.

110.3

In particular, where an investigation relates to an incident that did not
occur during the provision of NHS services, the HSSIB must consider whether,
in relation to any risks identified, the systems and practices in the
provision of NHS services could be improved.

110.4

The purpose of the investigations does not include assessing or determining—

110.4.a

blame,

110.4.b

civil or criminal liability, or

110.4.c

whether action needs to be taken in respect of an individual by a regulatory
body.

110.5

In this Part, an incident within subsection (1) is called a “qualifying
incident”.

##### Deciding which incidents to investigate

111

111.1

The HSSIB’s function under section 110 includes determining which qualifying
incidents it will investigate, subject to subsection  (2) .

111.2

The Secretary of State may direct the HSSIB to carry out an investigation of—

111.2.a

a particular qualifying incident that has occurred, or

111.2.b

qualifying incidents that have occurred and are of a particular description.

111.3

A direction under subsection  (2)  may specify the date by which the HSSIB
must publish its final report (see section 113).

111.4

A direction under subsection  (2) —

111.4.a

must be in writing;

111.4.b

may be varied or revoked by subsequent directions;

111.4.c

may provide for a person to exercise a discretion in dealing with any matter.

111.5

Once the HSSIB has begun an investigation into a qualifying incident, it must,
in such manner as it thinks appropriate, publish a statement which—

111.5.a

reports that it has begun the investigation,

111.5.b

contains a brief description of the incident, and

111.5.c

sets out, in general terms, the issues that the HSSIB expects to consider in
the investigation.

111.6

The HSSIB may give advance notice of a statement under subsection  (5)  to any
person the HSSIB considers may be affected by the investigation.

111.7

Where the HSSIB discontinues an investigation, it must, in such manner as it
thinks appropriate, publish a statement which—

111.7.a

reports that it has discontinued the investigation, and

111.7.b

gives its reasons for doing so.

111.8

Where the HSSIB determines not to investigate a qualifying incident, it may
give notice of its determination to any person the HSSIB considers to have an
interest in the determination.

111.9

Notice under subsection  (8)  may include—

111.9.a

a brief description of the incident, and

111.9.b

the HSSIB’s reasons for not investigating it.

##### Criteria, principles and processes

112

112.1

The HSSIB must determine and publish—

112.1.a

the criteria it will use in determining which incidents it investigates,

112.1.b

the principles which are to govern investigations,

112.1.c

the processes to be followed in carrying out investigations, and

112.1.d

the processes for ensuring that, so far as reasonable and practicable,
patients and their families are involved in investigations.

112.2

The processes determined under subsection  (1) (c)  must include—

112.2.a

the procedures and methods to be used in investigations (including in the
interviewing of persons), and

112.2.b

the time periods within which the HSSIB aims to complete investigations.

112.3

Different processes under subsection  (1) (c)  or  (d)  may be determined for
different descriptions of investigation.

112.4

Anything published under subsection (1)(d) must be—

112.4.a

easily accessible to patients and their families, and

112.4.b

capable of being easily understood by them.

112.5

The HSSIB must review the criteria, principles and processes—

112.5.a

within the period of three years beginning with their publication under
subsection  (1) , and

112.5.b

subsequently within each period of five years beginning with the completion of
the previous review.

112.6

If the HSSIB revises the criteria, principles and processes it must publish
them as revised.

112.7

In determining or revising the criteria, principles and processes the HSSIB
must consult—

112.7.a

the Secretary of State, and

112.7.b

any other persons the HSSIB considers appropriate.

#### Reports

##### Final reports

113

113.1

When the HSSIB completes an investigation, it must publish a report on the
outcome of the investigation (the “final report”).

113.2

The final report must—

113.2.a

contain a statement of findings of fact made as a result of the investigation
and an analysis of those findings,

113.2.b

make such recommendations as to the action to be taken by any person as the
HSSIB considers appropriate, and

113.2.c

set out the HSSIB’s conclusions on the matters it considered in accordance
with section 110(3) (but only if that provision is applicable to the
investigation).

113.3

The final report must focus on ascertaining risks to the safety of patients
and any recommendations as to the action to be taken by any person must focus
on addressing those risks (rather than on the activities of individuals
involved in the incident).

113.4

In particular, the final report may not include an assessment or determination
of—

113.4.a

blame,

113.4.b

civil or criminal liability, or

113.4.c

whether action needs to be taken in respect of an individual by a regulatory
body.

113.5

Information which is protected material (see section 122 (2) ) may be
disclosed in a final report if the HSSIB determines that the benefits to the
safety of patients served by the disclosure outweigh—

113.5.a

any adverse impact on current or future investigations by deterring persons
from providing information to the HSSIB, and

113.5.b

any adverse impact on securing the improvement of the safety of health care
services provided to patients in England.

113.6

The final report may not, without their consent, include the name of any
individual—

113.6.a

who has provided information to the HSSIB for the purposes of the
investigation, or

113.6.b

who was involved in the incident being investigated.

113.7

Where an investigation is carried out pursuant to a direction under section
111, the HSSIB must send a copy of the final report to the Secretary of State.

##### Interim reports

114

114.1

While the HSSIB is carrying out an investigation, it may publish a report on
any matter relating to the investigation (an “interim report”).

114.2

An interim report may—

114.2.a

contain a statement of findings of fact made as a result of the investigation
to date and an analysis of those findings,

114.2.b

make such recommendations as to the action to be taken by any person as the
HSSIB considers appropriate, and

114.2.c

set out the HSSIB’s conclusions to date on the matters it has considered in
accordance with section 110 (3) .

114.3

Subsections (3) to (7) of section 113 apply in relation to an interim report
as they apply in relation to a final report.

##### Draft reports

115

115.1

Before it publishes a final or interim report, the HSSIB—

115.1.a

must send a draft of the report to any person who the HSSIB reasonably
believes could be adversely affected by the report, and

115.1.b

may send a draft of the report to any other person who the HSSIB believes
should be sent a draft.

115.2

If a person who the HSSIB reasonably believes could have been adversely
affected by the report has died, the draft report must be sent to the person
(if any) who appears to the HSSIB to best represent the interests of the
person who has died.

115.3

The HSSIB must notify every person to whom a draft report is sent that the
person has an opportunity to comment on the draft report before the deadline
specified by the HSSIB.

115.4

If a person’s comments on a draft report are not taken into account in the
final or interim report as published, the HSSIB must explain to the person why
that is.

##### Response to reports

116

116.1

This section applies where a final or interim report includes recommendations
as to the action to be taken by any person.

116.2

The HSSIB must, in such manner as it thinks appropriate, send the report to
that person or make it available to them.

116.3

The report must specify the deadline for that person to provide a written
response.

116.4

Before that deadline, the person must respond to the HSSIB in writing setting
out the actions they propose to take in pursuance of the recommendations.

116.5

The HSSIB may publish the response.

116.6

Subsection (4) does not require a person to do anything that they could be
required to do by an Act of Senedd Cymru made without the consent of a
Minister of the Crown.

##### Admissibility of reports

117

117.1

A final report, an interim report and the draft of a final or interim report
sent to a person under section 115 are not admissible in any proceedings
within subsection (2).

117.2

Those proceedings are—

117.2.a

proceedings to determine civil or criminal liability in respect of any matter;

117.2.b

proceedings before any employment tribunal;

117.2.c

proceedings before a regulatory body (including proceedings for the purposes
of investigating an allegation);

117.2.d

proceedings to determine an appeal against a decision made in proceedings
falling within paragraphs  (a)  to  (c) .

117.3

But the High Court may order that a final or interim report is admissible in
proceedings within subsection (2) on an application by a person who is a party
to the proceedings or otherwise entitled to appear in them.

117.4

The HSSIB may make representations to the High Court about any application
under subsection  (3) .

117.5

The High Court may make an order under subsection  (3)  only if it determines
that the interests of justice served by admitting the report outweigh—

117.5.a

any adverse impact on current or future investigations by deterring persons
from providing information for the purposes of investigations, and

117.5.b

any adverse impact on securing the improvement of the safety of health care
services provided to patients in England.

#### Investigatory powers etc

##### Powers of entry, inspection and seizure

118

118.1

If an investigator considers it necessary for the purposes of an
investigation, the investigator may—

118.1.a

enter and inspect premises in England, other than premises used wholly or
mainly as a private dwelling;

118.1.b

inspect and take copies of any document at, or capable of being viewed using
equipment at, the premises;

118.1.c

inspect any equipment or other item at the premises;

118.1.d

seize and remove from the premises any document, equipment or other item
(unless that would risk the safety of any patient).

118.2

In subsection  (1) (b)  the reference to inspecting and taking copies of any
document includes requiring any document which is kept in electronic form to
be produced in a form in which it is legible and can be taken away.

118.3

Where any document, equipment or other item is seized by an investigator, or
any copy of a document is taken, it may be retained by the HSSIB for so long
as is necessary for the purposes of the investigation.

118.4

An investigator exercising any power conferred by this section must, if asked,
produce evidence of the investigator’s authority from the HSSIB to act on its
behalf.

118.5

The powers conferred by subsection (1) may be exercised in relation to
premises in which there is a Crown interest, but only if the HSSIB gives
reasonable notice to the occupier of the premises of its intention to enter
and inspect the premises.

118.6

But if the Secretary of State certifies that it appears to the Secretary of
State appropriate in the interests of national security that the powers
conferred by subsection (1)—

118.6.a

should not be exercisable in relation to any premises in which there is a
Crown interest and which are specified in the certificate, or

118.6.b

should not be exercisable in relation to any such premises which are so
specified except in circumstances specified in the certificate,

those powers are not exercisable in relation to those premises or (as the case
may be) are not exercisable except in the circumstances specified.

118.7

In this section “ Crown interest ” means—

118.7.a

an interest belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her
Majesty for the purposes of a government department;

118.7.b

an interest belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown;

118.7.c

an interest belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Duchy of Lancaster;

118.7.d

an interest belonging to the Duchy of Cornwall.

##### Powers to require information etc

119

119.1

An investigator may by notice require any person—

119.1.a

to attend at a specified time and place and to provide information by
answering questions;

119.1.b

to provide specified information, or information of a specified description,
by a specified date;

119.1.c

to provide specified documents, equipment or items, or documents, equipment or
items of a specified description, by a specified date.

119.2

An investigator may give a person a notice only if the investigator reasonably
believes that—

119.2.a

in the case of a requirement under subsection (1)(a), the person is able to
provide information which is necessary for the purposes of an investigation;

119.2.b

in the case of a requirement under subsection  (1) (b)—

119.2.b.i

it is necessary to obtain the information for the purposes of an
investigation, and

119.2.b.ii

the person is able to provide it;

119.2.c

in the case of a requirement under subsection (1)(c)—

119.2.c.i

it is necessary to obtain the document, equipment or other item for the
purposes of the HSSIB’s investigation function, and

119.2.c.ii

the person is able to provide it.

119.3

But a person is not required by virtue of subsection (1) to provide any
information, document, equipment or other item where—

119.3.a

its provision would risk the safety of any patient,

119.3.b

its provision might incriminate the person, or

119.3.c

in the case of information or a document, the person would be entitled to
refuse to provide it in any proceedings in any court on the grounds that it is
the subject of legal professional privilege.

119.4

A notice must—

119.4.a

specify the grounds for the investigator believing the matters in subsection
(2),

119.4.b

give an explanation of the consequences of failing to comply with the notice
(see section 121), and

119.4.c

attach evidence of the investigator’s authority from the HSSIB to exercise the
powers conferred by this section.

119.5

If a notice requires a person to provide anything which is kept in electronic
form, the notice may require it to be provided in a form in which it is
legible.

119.6

An investigator may withdraw a notice under subsection (1) by giving notice of
withdrawal to the person to whom the notice was given.

119.7

Where any document, equipment or other item is provided to an investigator
pursuant to a notice, it may be retained by the HSSIB for so long as is
necessary for the purposes of the HSSIB’s investigation function, unless its
retention would risk the safety of any patient.

119.8

Where a person attends to answer questions pursuant to a notice under
subsection (1)(a), the HSSIB—

119.8.a

must reimburse the person the reasonable costs incurred in attending;

119.8.b

may record, by any means, the answers given.

119.9

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the notice.

##### Voluntary provision of information etc

120

A person may disclose any information, document, equipment or other item to
the HSSIB if the person reasonably believes that the disclosure is necessary
for the purpose of enabling the HSSIB to carry out its investigation function.

##### Offences relating to investigations

121

121.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

121.1.a

intentionally obstructs an investigator in the performance of functions
conferred by section 118, or

121.1.b

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a notice given under section
119.

121.2

A person commits an offence if the person provides information to the HSSIB
for the purposes of the HSSIB’s investigation function which the person knows
or suspects is false or misleading in a material respect.

121.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (2)  to
show that—

121.3.a

the person reasonably believed that the information would assist the HSSIB in
carrying out its investigation function, and

121.3.b

at the time of providing the information the person informed the HSSIB that
the person knew or suspected that it was false or misleading.

121.4

If a person charged with an offence under subsection  (2)  relies on the
defence under subsection  (3) , and evidence is adduced which is sufficient to
raise an issue with respect to that defence, the court must assume that the
defence is satisfied unless the prosecution proves beyond reasonable doubt
that it is not.

121.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

121.6

Subsections  (1) (a)  and  (5)  apply to persons in the public service of the
Crown as they apply to other persons.

#### Protection of material held by the HSSIB

##### Prohibition on disclosure of HSSIB material

122

122.1

The HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSIB, must not disclose
protected material to any person.

122.2

In this Part “ protected material ” means any information, document, equipment
or other item which—

122.2.a

is held by the HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSIB, for the
purposes of the HSSIB’s investigation function,

122.2.b

relates to a qualifying incident (whether or not investigated by the HSSIB),
and

122.2.c

has not already been lawfully made available to the public.

122.3

In this Part “ individual connected with the HSSIB ” means—

122.3.a

a member of the HSSIB,

122.3.b

a member of a committee or sub-committee of the HSSIB,

122.3.c

an investigator, or

122.3.d

an individual (other than an investigator) who works for the HSSIB.

122.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)(d) an individual “works for” the HSSIB if
the individual works—

122.4.a

under a contract of employment with the HSSIB,

122.4.b

under a contract of apprenticeship with the HSSIB,

122.4.c

under a contract under which the individual undertakes to do or perform
personally any work or services for the HSSIB, or

122.4.d

as an agency worker within the meaning of the Agency Workers Regulations 2010
( S.I. 2010/93 ) in circumstances where the HSSIB is the hirer within the
meaning of those Regulations.

122.5

An individual who was, but has ceased to be, connected with the HSSIB must not
disclose to any person, other than the HSSIB or an individual connected with
the HSSIB, any information, document, equipment or other item held by that
individual—

122.5.a

which the individual obtained because they were connected with the HSSIB,

122.5.b

which, at the time they ceased to be connected with the HSSIB, was protected
material, and

122.5.c

which has not already been lawfully made available to the public.

##### Exceptions to prohibition on disclosure

123

123.1

Section 122(1) does not apply to a disclosure which is required or authorised
by—

123.1.a

Schedule 14,

123.1.b

any other provision of this Part, or

123.1.c

regulations made by the Secretary of State.

123.2

Regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may, for example, require or authorise
disclosures of protected material by reference to—

123.2.a

the kind of material that it is (for example, a particular kind of equipment),

123.2.b

the matters to which it relates,

123.2.c

the person from whom it was obtained,

123.2.d

the purpose for which it was produced or is held, or

123.2.e

the purpose for which it is disclosed.

123.3

But regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may not require or authorise
disclosures of protected material by reference to the qualifying incident to
which the material relates.

123.4

Regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may provide for a person to exercise a
discretion in dealing with any matter.

123.5

Subject to subsection  (6) , regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  may
provide that disclosures which are required or authorised by the regulations
do not breach—

123.5.a

obligations of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

123.5.b

any other restrictions on disclosure.

123.6

Nothing in regulations under subsection  (1) (c)  operates to require or
authorise disclosures which would contravene the data protection legislation
(but, for the purposes of this subsection, in determining whether any
disclosure required or authorised by the regulations would do so, take the
requirement or authorisation into account).

##### Offences of unlawful disclosure

124

124.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

124.1.a

breaches the prohibition in section 122 (1)  by knowingly or recklessly
disclosing protected material to another person, and

124.1.b

knows or suspects that the disclosure is prohibited.

124.2

An individual who was, but has ceased to be, connected with the HSSIB commits
an offence if the individual—

124.2.a

breaches the prohibition in section 122(5) by knowingly or recklessly
disclosing any information, document, equipment or other thing to another
person, and

124.2.b

knows or suspects that the disclosure is prohibited.

124.3

Subsection (4) applies where protected material is disclosed to a person not
connected with the HSSIB—

124.3.a

in a draft report sent to the person under section 115(1),

124.3.b

under paragraph 2, 3 or 4 of Schedule 14 (disclosures for purposes of an
investigation, offence or safety risk), or

124.3.c

under regulations under section 123(1)(c).

124.4

The person not connected with the HSSIB to whom protected material is
disclosed as specified in subsection (3) commits an offence if the person—

124.4.a

knowingly or recklessly discloses the protected material to another person
without reasonable excuse, and

124.4.b

knows or suspects that it is protected material.

124.5

A person who commits an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to a fine.

##### Restriction of statutory powers requiring disclosure

125

125.1

A power under any enactment (whenever passed or made) other than this Part to
require the disclosure of, or to seize, any information, document, equipment
or other item may not be used—

125.1.a

to require the disclosure of protected material by the HSSIB, or

125.1.b

to seize protected material from the HSSIB.

125.2

Subsection  (1)  applies to a power to require disclosure, or to seize,
however it is expressed (and, for example, it applies if the power is to
require a person to give, supply, furnish or produce any information,
document, equipment or other item).

125.3

Subsection (1) does not apply to a power to the extent that the provision
conferring it is within the legislative competence of a devolved legislature.

125.4

A provision is within the legislative competence of a devolved legislature if—

125.4.a

it would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it
were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

125.4.b

it would be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were
contained in an Act of the Senedd (including any provision that could only be
made with the consent of a Minister of the Crown);

125.4.c

the provision—

125.4.c.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland Assembly if
contained in an Act of that Assembly, and

125.4.c.ii

would not, if contained in a Bill for an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly,
result in the Bill requiring the consent of the Secretary of State under
section 8 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

125.5

In this section “ enactment ” includes an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978.

125.6

References to the HSSIB in subsection  (1)  include—

125.6.a

an individual connected with the HSSIB, and

125.6.b

an individual who was, but has ceased to be, connected with the HSSIB.

#### Relationship with other bodies

##### Co-operation

126

126.1

This section applies where—

126.1.a

the HSSIB is carrying out an investigation into a qualifying incident, and

126.1.b

a listed person is also carrying out an investigation into the same or a
related incident.

126.2

The HSSIB and the listed person must co-operate with each other regarding
practical arrangements for co-ordinating those investigations.

126.3

The following are listed persons—

126.3.a

an NHS foundation trust, an NHS trust or any other person providing NHS
services;

126.3.b

NHS England;

126.3.c

an integrated care board;

126.3.d

a Special Health Authority;

126.3.e

the Care Quality Commission;

126.3.f

the Health Research Authority;

126.3.g

the Human Tissue Authority;

126.3.h

the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority;

126.3.i

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

126.3.j

the Health Service Commissioner for England;

126.3.k

the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration;

126.3.l

any regulatory body;

126.3.m

the Health and Safety Executive;

126.3.n

the Commissioner for Patient Safety.

126.4

The HSSIB must publish guidance about when a qualifying incident is to be
regarded as related to another incident for the purposes of this section.

126.5

If the HSSIB revises the guidance the HSSIB must publish it as revised.

##### Assistance of NHS bodies

127

127.1

The HSSIB must comply with—

127.1.a

any request by a relevant NHS body to provide it with assistance in connection
with the carrying out of investigations into incidents occurring during the
provision of NHS services or occurring at premises at which NHS services are
provided;

127.1.b

any request by NHS England to provide any other relevant NHS body with such
assistance;

127.1.c

any request by the Secretary of State to provide a relevant NHS body with such
assistance.

127.2

In subsection  (1)  “ relevant NHS body ” means—

127.2.a

an NHS foundation trust;

127.2.b

an NHS trust;

127.2.c

NHS England;

127.2.d

an integrated care board.

127.3

For the purposes of this section giving assistance includes—

127.3.a

disseminating information about best practice,

127.3.b

developing standards to be adopted, and

127.3.c

giving advice, guidance or training.

127.4

Subsection  (1)  does not apply if—

127.4.a

the assistance requested is giving advice, guidance or training, and

127.4.b

the HSSIB determines that it is impracticable for it to give the assistance.

127.5

The HSSIB may give assistance to a person other than a relevant NHS body in
relation to any matter connected with the carrying out of investigations if
the HSSIB has been requested to provide the assistance by the person to whom
it is to be given.

127.6

But the HSSIB may give assistance under subsection  (5)  only to the extent
that the assistance does not to any significant extent interfere with the
exercise by the HSSIB of its investigation function.

127.7

The activities which the HSSIB may carry out in, or in connection with, giving
assistance under subsection  (5)  are not restricted to activities carried out
in the United Kingdom.

127.8

The HSSIB may impose charges for or in connection with giving assistance under
subsection  (5) .

127.9

Charges under subsection  (8)  may be calculated on the basis that the HSSIB
considers to be the appropriate commercial basis.

##### Investigations relating to Wales and Northern Ireland

128

128.1

The HSSIB may enter into an agreement with any person for the HSSIB to carry
out an investigation falling within subsection (2).

128.2

An investigation falls within this subsection if—

128.2.a

it is an investigation into one or more incidents that have occurred, or are
occurring, in the United Kingdom—

128.2.a.i

during the provision of any of the services mentioned in subsection  (3) , or

128.2.a.ii

at premises at which any of those services are, or were, provided,

128.2.b

the incident or incidents have or may have implications for the safety of
persons for whom those services are provided,

128.2.c

the investigation is carried out for the purpose of identifying risks to the
safety of such persons and addressing those risks by facilitating the
improvement of systems and practices in the provision of any of the services
mentioned in subsection  (3) , and

128.2.d

the investigation does not involve the assessment or determination of blame or
civil or criminal liability.

128.3

The services referred to in subsection (2) are—

128.3.a

services provided for the purposes of the health service continued under
section 1(1) of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006, and

128.3.b

health care, within the meaning of the Health and Social Care (Reform) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2009, provided for the purposes of the system promoted
under section 2(1) of that Act.

128.4

The HSSIB may impose charges for providing services under an agreement under
subsection  (1) .

128.5

Those charges must not exceed the costs incurred by the HSSIB in providing the
services.

128.6

The HSSIB may enter into an agreement under subsection  (1)  only if it
considers that the provision of the services under the agreement will not to
any significant extent interfere with the exercise by the HSSIB of its
investigation function.

#### Oversight of functions

##### Failure to exercise functions

129

129.1

This section applies if the Secretary of State considers that—

129.1.a

the HSSIB is failing or has failed to exercise any of its functions, and

129.1.b

the failure is significant.

129.2

The Secretary of State may direct the HSSIB to exercise such of its functions,
in such manner and within such period, as the direction specifies.

129.3

But the Secretary of State may not give a direction under subsection  (2)
which directs the outcome of a particular investigation.

129.4

If the HSSIB fails to comply with a direction under subsection  (2) , the
Secretary of State may—

129.4.a

exercise the functions specified in the direction, or

129.4.b

make arrangements for some other person to exercise them on the Secretary of
State’s behalf.

129.5

The reference in subsection  (1) (a)  to exercising a function includes a
reference to exercising it properly.

129.6

A direction under subsection  (2) —

129.6.a

must be in writing;

129.6.b

may be varied or revoked by subsequent directions.

##### Review

130

130.1

Before the end of the period mentioned in subsection  (2) , the Secretary of
State must—

130.1.a

review the effectiveness of the exercise by the HSSIB of its investigation
function,

130.1.b

prepare and publish a report of the review, and

130.1.c

lay the report before Parliament.

130.2

The period is four years beginning with the day on which section 110 comes
into force.

#### Offences: supplementary

##### Offences by bodies corporate

131

131.1

Where an offence under this Part is committed by a body corporate and is
proved—

131.1.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of an officer of the
body corporate, or

131.1.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of an officer of the body
corporate,

the officer (as well as the body corporate) commits the offence and is liable
to be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

131.2

In subsection  (1)  “ officer ”, in relation to a body corporate, means—

131.2.a

a director, manager, secretary or other similar officer, or

131.2.b

any person purporting to act in any such capacity.

In paragraph  (a)  “ director ”, in relation to a body corporate whose affairs
are managed by its members, means a member of the body corporate.

##### Offences by partnerships

132

132.1

Proceedings for an offence alleged to have been committed by a partnership may
be brought in the name of the partnership.

132.2

Rules of court relating to the service of documents have effect in relation to
proceedings for an offence as if the partnership were a body corporate.

132.3

For the purposes of such proceedings Schedule 3 to the Magistrates’ Courts Act
1980 applies as it applies in relation to a body corporate.

132.4

A fine imposed on a partnership on its conviction for an offence must be paid
out of the partnership assets.

132.5

Where an offence is committed by a partnership and is proved—

132.5.a

to have been committed with the consent or connivance of a partner, or

132.5.b

to be attributable to any neglect on the part of a partner,

the partner (as well as the partnership) commits the offence and is liable to
be proceeded against and punished accordingly.

132.6

In this section—

      “ offence ” means an offence under this Part;           “ partner ”
includes a person purporting to act as a partner.

#### Supplementary

##### Obligations of confidence etc

133

133.1

Subject to subsection (2), a disclosure of any information, document,
equipment or other item which is required or authorised by or under section
119 or 120 or Schedule 14 does not breach—

133.1.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

133.1.b

any other restriction on disclosure.

133.2

Nothing in this Part operates to require or authorise a disclosure of
information which would contravene the data protection legislation (but, for
the purposes of this subsection, in determining whether a disclosure required
or authorised by or under this Part would do so, take the requirement or
authorisation into account).

##### Consequential amendments relating to Part 4

134

Schedule 15 contains amendments consequential on this Part.

##### Interpretation of Part 4

135

In this Part—

      “ the 2006 Act ” means the National Health Service Act 2006;           “
Chief Investigator ” means the person appointed in accordance with paragraph
3  of Schedule 13;           “ data protection legislation ” has the same
meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);
to “ disclose ”, in relation to information, documents, equipment and other
items includes to permit access to such things;           “ documents ”
includes personal and medical records;           “ final report ” means a
report under section 113;           “ health care services ” means—
all forms of health care services provided for individuals, whether relating
to physical or mental health, and           procedures that are similar to
forms of medical or surgical care but are not provided in connection with a
medical condition;                 “ the HSSIB ” has the meaning given by
section 109 (2) ;           “ interim report ” means a report under section
114;           “investigation”, except in the case of an investigation
mentioned in section 126(1)(b), 127 or 128, means an investigation carried out
by the HSSIB under section 110(1) and any related term is to be read
accordingly;           the “investigation function” of the HSSIB is its
function under section 110(1) (and see also section 111(1));           “
investigator ” means a person authorised by the HSSIB to carry out functions
in relation to investigations on its behalf;           “ Minister of the Crown
” has the same meaning as in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975;           “
NHS foundation trust ” has the meaning given by section 30 of the 2006 Act;
“ NHS services ” means health care services provided in England for the
purposes of the health service continued under section 1(1) of the 2006 Act;
“ NHS trust ” means a National Health Service trust established under section
25 of the 2006 Act;           “ notice ” means notice in writing;           “
patients ” means individuals for whom health care services are provided;
“ premises ” includes a vehicle;           “ protected material ” has the
meaning given by section 122(2);           “ qualifying incident ” has the
meaning given by section 110(5);           “ regulatory body ” means—
the General Medical Council,           the General Dental Council,
the General Optical Council,           the General Osteopathic Council,
the General Chiropractic Council,           the General Pharmaceutical
Council,           the Nursing and Midwifery Council,           the Health and
Care Professions Council, or           any other regulatory body, within the
meaning of Schedule 3 to the Health Act 1999, established at any time by an
Order in Council under section 60 of that Act;                 “ Special
Health Authority ” means a Special Health Authority established under section
28 of the 2006 Act.

### Virginity testing and hymenoplasty offences

#### Virginity testing offences

##### Virginity testing offences: England and Wales

###### Offence of virginity testing: England and Wales

136

136.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales for a person to carry out
virginity testing.

136.2

“ Virginity testing ” means the examination of female genitalia, with or
without consent, for the purpose (or purported purpose) of determining
virginity.

136.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

136.3.a

is in England and Wales, or

136.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in England and Wales.

136.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

136.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

136.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

136.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

136.5

In subsection  (2) , “ female genitalia ” means a vagina or vulva.

###### Offence of offering to carry out virginity testing: England and Wales

137

137.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales—

137.1.a

for a person in England and Wales to offer to carry out virginity testing in
the United Kingdom or virginity testing that has a sufficient jurisdictional
connection, or

137.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out virginity testing if the person is
a United Kingdom national or habitually resident in England and Wales.

137.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes
of subsection (1)(a) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

137.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

137.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

137.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 136(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 136(2).

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing: England and Wales

138

138.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales for a person who is in
England and Wales, or for a person who is outside England and Wales but who is
a United Kingdom national or habitually resident in England and Wales, to aid,
abet, counsel or procure the carrying out of virginity testing that has a
sufficient jurisdictional connection.

138.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes
of subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

138.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

138.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

138.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

138.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 136
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring.

138.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 136(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 136(2).

###### Virginity testing offences in England and Wales: penalties

139

139.1

A person who commits an offence under section 136, 137 or 138 is liable—

139.1.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

139.1.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

139.2

In subsection  (1)(a)  “ the maximum summary term for either-way offences ”
means—

139.2.a

in relation to an offence committed before the time when paragraph 24(2) of
Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 comes into force, 6 months;

139.2.b

in relation to an offence committed after that time, 12 months.

##### Virginity testing offences: Scotland

###### Offence of virginity testing: Scotland

140

140.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland for a person to carry out virginity
testing.

140.2

“ Virginity testing ” means the examination of female genitalia, with or
without consent, for the purpose (or purported purpose) of determining
virginity.

140.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

140.3.a

is in Scotland, or

140.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in Scotland.

140.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

140.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

140.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

140.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

140.5

In subsection  (2) , “ female genitalia ” means a vagina or vulva.

###### Offence of offering to carry out virginity testing: Scotland

141

141.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland—

141.1.a

for a person in Scotland to offer to carry out virginity testing in the United
Kingdom or virginity testing that has a sufficient jurisdictional connection,
or

141.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out virginity testing if the person is
a United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Scotland.

141.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes
of subsection (1)(a) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

141.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

141.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

141.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 140(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 140(2).

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing: Scotland

142

142.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland for a person who is in Scotland, or
for a person who is outside Scotland but who is a United Kingdom national or
habitually resident in Scotland, to aid, abet, counsel, procure or incite the
carrying out of virginity testing that has a sufficient jurisdictional
connection.

142.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes
of subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

142.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

142.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

142.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

142.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 140
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling, procuring or
inciting.

142.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 140(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 140 (2) .

###### Virginity testing offences in Scotland: penalties and supplementary

143

143.1

A person who commits an offence under section 140, 141 or 142 is liable—

143.1.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

143.1.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

143.2

Where a person outside Scotland commits an offence under section 140, 142 or
143 the person may be prosecuted, tried and punished for the offence—

143.2.a

in a sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or in custody,
or

143.2.b

in a sheriff court district determined by the Lord Advocate,

as if the offence had been committed in that district.

143.3

Where subsection  (2)  applies, the offence is, for all purposes incidental to
or consequential on the trial and punishment, deemed to have been committed in
that district.

143.4

In this section “ sheriff court district ” is to be construed in accordance
with section 307(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995
(interpretation).

##### Virginity testing offences: Northern Ireland

###### Offence of virginity testing: Northern Ireland

144

144.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland for a person to carry out
virginity testing.

144.2

“ Virginity testing ” means the examination of female genitalia, with or
without consent, for the purpose (or purported purpose) of determining
virginity.

144.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

144.3.a

is in Northern Ireland, or

144.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in Northern Ireland.

144.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

144.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

144.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

144.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

144.5

In subsection  (2) , “ female genitalia ” means a vagina or vulva.

###### Offence of offering to carry out virginity testing: Northern Ireland

145

145.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland—

145.1.a

for a person in Northern Ireland to offer to carry out virginity testing in
the United Kingdom or virginity testing that has a sufficient jurisdictional
connection, or

145.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out virginity testing if the person is
a United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Northern Ireland.

145.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes
of subsection (1)(a) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

145.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

145.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

145.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 144(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 144 (2) .

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing: Northern Ireland

146

146.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland for a person who is in
Northern Ireland, or for a person who is outside Northern Ireland but who is a
United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Northern Ireland, to aid,
abet, counsel or procure the carrying out of virginity testing that has a
sufficient jurisdictional connection.

146.2

Virginity testing has a sufficient jurisdictional connection fr the purposes
of subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

146.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

146.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

146.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

146.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 144
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring.

146.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 144(4);
“ virginity testing ” has the meaning given by section 144 (2) .

###### Virginity testing offences in Northern Ireland: penalties

147

A person who commits an offence under section 144, 145 or 146 is liable—

147.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

147.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

#### Hymenoplasty offences

##### Hymenoplasty offences: England and Wales

###### Offence of carrying out hymenoplasty: England and Wales

148

148.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales for a person to carry out
hymenoplasty.

148.2

“ Hymenoplasty ” means the reconstruction of the hymen (with or without
consent).

148.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

148.3.a

is in England and Wales, or

148.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in England and Wales.

148.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

148.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

148.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

148.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

###### Offence of offering to carry out hymenoplasty: England and Wales

149

149.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales—

149.1.a

for a person in England and Wales to offer to carry out hymenoplasty in the
United Kingdom or hymenoplasty that has a sufficient jurisdictional
connection, or

149.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out hymenoplasty if the person is a
United Kingdom national or habitually resident in England and Wales.

149.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection (1)(a) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

149.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

149.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

149.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 148 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 148 (2) .

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty: England and Wales

150

150.1

It is an offence under the law of England and Wales for a person who is in
England and Wales, or for a person who is outside England and Wales but who is
a United Kingdom national or habitually resident in England and Wales, to aid,
abet, counsel or procure the carrying out of hymenoplasty that has a
sufficient jurisdictional connection.

150.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

150.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

150.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

150.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

150.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 148
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring.

150.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 148 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 148 (2) .

###### Hymenoplasty offences in England and Wales: penalties

151

151.1

A person who commits an offence under section 148, 149 or 150 is liable—

151.1.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the maximum
summary term for either-way offences or a fine (or both);

151.1.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

151.2

In subsection  (1)(a)  “ the maximum summary term for either-way offences ”
means—

151.2.a

in relation to an offence committed before the time when paragraph 24(2) of
Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 comes into force, 6 months;

151.2.b

in relation to an offence committed after that time, 12 months.

##### Hymenoplasty offences: Scotland

###### Offence of carrying out hymenoplasty: Scotland

152

152.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland for a person to carry out
hymenoplasty.

152.2

“ Hymenoplasty ” means the reconstruction of the hymen (with or without
consent).

152.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

152.3.a

is in Scotland, or

152.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in Scotland.

152.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

152.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

152.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

152.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

###### Offence of offering to carry out hymenoplasty: Scotland

153

153.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland—

153.1.a

for a person in Scotland to offer to carry out hymenoplasty in the United
Kingdom or hymenoplasty that has a sufficient jurisdictional connection, or

153.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out hymenoplasty if the person is a
United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Scotland.

153.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection  (1)(a)  if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

153.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

153.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

153.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 152 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 152 (2) .

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty: Scotland

154

154.1

It is an offence under the law of Scotland for a person who is in Scotland, or
for a person who is outside Scotland but who is a United Kingdom national or
habitually resident in Scotland, to aid, abet, counsel, procure or incite the
carrying out of hymenoplasty that has a sufficient jurisdictional connection.

154.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

154.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

154.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

154.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

154.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 152
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling, procuring or
inciting.

154.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 152 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 152 (2) .

###### Hymenoplasty offences in Scotland: penalties and supplementary

155

155.1

A person who commits an offence under section 152, 153 or 154 is liable—

155.1.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

155.1.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

155.2

Where a person outside Scotland commits an offence under section 152, 153 or
154 the person may be prosecuted, tried and punished for the offence—

155.2.a

in a sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or in custody,
or

155.2.b

in a sheriff court district determined by the Lord Advocate,

as if the offence had been committed in that district.

155.3

Where subsection  (2)  applies, the offence is, for all purposes incidental to
or consequential on the trial and punishment, deemed to have been committed in
that district.

155.4

In this section “ sheriff court district ” is to be construed in accordance
with section 307(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995
(interpretation).

##### Hymenoplasty offences: Northern Ireland

###### Offence of carrying out hymenoplasty: Northern Ireland

156

156.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland for a person to carry out
hymenoplasty.

156.2

“ Hymenoplasty ” means the reconstruction of the hymen (with or without
consent).

156.3

An offence is committed under subsection  (1)  only if the person—

156.3.a

is in Northern Ireland, or

156.3.b

is outside the United Kingdom, and is a United Kingdom national or habitually
resident in Northern Ireland.

156.4

“ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

156.4.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

156.4.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

156.4.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

###### Offence of offering to carry out hymenoplasty: Northern Ireland

157

157.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland—

157.1.a

for a person in Northern Ireland to offer to carry out hymenoplasty in the
United Kingdom or hymenoplasty that has a sufficient jurisdictional
connection, or

157.1.b

for a person anywhere to offer to carry out hymenoplasty if the person is a
United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Northern Ireland.

157.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection (1)(a) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

157.2.a

a United Kingdom national, or

157.2.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

157.3

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 156 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 156 (2) .

###### Offence of aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty: Northern Ireland

158

158.1

It is an offence under the law of Northern Ireland for a person who is in
Northern Ireland, or for a person who is outside Northern Ireland but who is a
United Kingdom national or habitually resident in Northern Ireland, to aid,
abet, counsel or procure the carrying out of hymenoplasty that has a
sufficient jurisdictional connection.

158.2

Hymenoplasty has a sufficient jurisdictional connection for the purposes of
subsection (1) if it is carried out in relation to a person who is—

158.2.a

in the United Kingdom,

158.2.b

a United Kingdom national, or

158.2.c

habitually resident in the United Kingdom.

158.3

This section does not affect the application to an offence under section 156
of any rule of law relating to aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring.

158.4

In this section—

      “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by section 156 (4) ;
“ hymenoplasty ” has the meaning given by section 156 (2) .

###### Hymenoplasty offences in Northern Ireland: penalties

159

A person who commits an offence under section 156, 157 or 158 is liable—

159.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

159.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both).

#### Consequential amendments

##### Consequential amendments relating to Part 5

160

Schedule 16 contains consequential amendments.

### Miscellaneous

#### Pharmaceutical services

##### Pharmaceutical services: remuneration in respect of vaccines etc

161

161.1

In section 164 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (remuneration for
persons providing pharmaceutical services)—

161.1.a

in subsection (8A) for “special medicinal products” substitute

any of the following—

161.1.a.a

drugs or medicines used for vaccinating or immunising people against disease,

161.1.a.b

anything used in connection with the supply or administration of drugs or
medicines within paragraph  (a) ,

161.1.a.c

drugs or medicines, not within paragraph  (a) , that are used for preventing
or treating a disease that, at the time the regulations are made, the
Secretary of State considers to be a pandemic disease or at risk of becoming a
pandemic disease,

161.1.a.d

anything used in connection with the supply or administration of drugs or
medicines within paragraph  (c) , or

161.1.a.e

a product which is a special medicinal product for the purposes of regulation
167 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1916 ).

;

161.1.b

in subsection (8D)—

161.1.b.i

for “special medicinal products are” substitute  “anything within subsection
(8A) (a)  to  (e)  is” ;

161.1.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “special medicinal products” substitute  “that thing,” ;

161.1.c

in subsection (8E), omit the definition of “special medicinal product”;

161.1.d

after subsection (8E) insert—

161.1.d.8F

Where regulations include provision made in reliance on subsection (8A)(c) or
(d) and the Secretary of State considers that the disease to which it relates
is no longer a pandemic disease or at risk of becoming a pandemic disease, the
Secretary of State must revoke that provision within such period as the
Secretary of State considers reasonable (taking into account, in particular,
the need for any transitional arrangements).

161.2

In section 88 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 (remuneration
for persons providing pharmaceutical services)—

161.2.a

in subsection (8A) for “special medicinal products” substitute

any of the following—

161.2.a.a

drugs or medicines used for vaccinating or immunising people against disease,

161.2.a.b

anything used in connection with the supply or administration of drugs or
medicines within paragraph  (a) ,

161.2.a.c

drugs or medicines, not within paragraph  (a) , that are used for preventing
or treating a disease that, at the time the regulations are made, the Welsh
Ministers consider to be a pandemic disease or at risk of becoming a pandemic
disease,

161.2.a.d

anything used in connection with the supply or administration of drugs or
medicines within paragraph  (c) , or

161.2.a.e

a product which is a special medicinal product for the purposes of regulation
167 of the Human Medicines Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1916 )

;

161.2.b

in subsection (8D)—

161.2.b.i

for “special medicinal products are” substitute  “anything within subsection
(8A) (a)  to  (e)  is” ;

161.2.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “special medicinal products” substitute  “that thing,” ;

161.2.c

in subsection (8E), omit the definition of “special medicinal product”;

161.2.d

after subsection (8E) insert—

161.2.d.8F

Where regulations include provision made in reliance on subsection (8A)(c) or
(d) and the Welsh Ministers consider that the disease to which it relates is
no longer a pandemic disease or at risk of becoming a pandemic disease, the
Welsh Ministers must revoke that provision within such period as the Welsh
Ministers consider reasonable (taking into account, in particular, the need
for any transitional arrangements).

#### International healthcare

##### International healthcare arrangements

162

162.1

The Healthcare (European Economic Area and Switzerland Arrangements) Act 2019
is renamed the Healthcare (International Arrangements) Act 2019.

162.2

That Act is amended as follows.

162.3

Omit section 1 (power to make healthcare payments).

162.4

For section 2 substitute—

########### Healthcare agreements and payments

162.4.2

162.4.2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for the purpose of
giving effect to a healthcare agreement (including provision about payments).

162.4.2.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision authorising the
Secretary of State to make a payment (otherwise than under a healthcare
agreement) in respect of healthcare provided in a relevant country or
territory, but only where the Secretary of State considers that exceptional
circumstances justify the payment.

162.4.2.3

In subsection  (2)  “ relevant country or territory ” means a country or
territory, outside the United Kingdom, in respect of which there is a
healthcare agreement.

162.4.2.4

Regulations under this section may include provision about administrative
arrangements (including provision about evidential requirements).

162.4.2.5

Regulations under this section may—

162.4.2.5.a

confer functions on a relevant public authority or a Scottish or Welsh health
board (including discretions);

162.4.2.5.b

provide for the delegation of functions to a relevant public authority or a
Scottish or Welsh health board.

162.4.2.6

The Secretary of State may give directions to a person about the exercise of
any functions exercisable by the person under regulations made by virtue of
subsection  (5)  (and may vary or revoke any such directions).

162.4.2.7

In this section “ relevant public authority ” means a person who exercises
functions of a public nature other than—

162.4.2.7.a

the Scottish Ministers,

162.4.2.7.b

a Scottish public authority with mixed functions or no reserved functions
(within the meaning of the Scotland Act 1998),

162.4.2.7.c

the Welsh Ministers,

162.4.2.7.d

a devolved Welsh authority as defined by section 157A of the Government of
Wales Act 2006,

162.4.2.7.e

a Northern Ireland department, or

162.4.2.7.f

any other person whose functions—

162.4.2.7.f.i

are exercisable only or mainly in or as regards Northern Ireland, and

162.4.2.7.f.ii

relate only or mainly to transferred matters within the meaning of the
Northern Ireland Act 1998.

162.4.2.8

In this section—

      “ Scottish health board ” means a Health Board established under section
2(1)(a) of the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978;           “ Welsh
health board ” means a Local Health Board established under section 11 of the
National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006.

########### Healthcare agreements and payments: powers of devolved authorities

162.4.2A

162.4.2A.1

A devolved authority may by regulations make provision for the purpose of
giving effect to a healthcare agreement (including provision about payments).

162.4.2A.2

No provision may be made by a devolved authority under subsection (1) unless
the provision is within the devolved competence of that devolved authority
(and any applicable consent requirement under section 2B has been complied
with).

162.4.2A.3

In this section “ devolved authority ” means the Scottish Ministers, the Welsh
Ministers or a Northern Ireland department.

162.4.2A.4

For the purposes of this section—

162.4.2A.4.a

provision is within the devolved competence of the Scottish Ministers if it
would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if it
were contained in an Act of that Parliament;

162.4.2A.4.b

provision is within the devolved competence of the Welsh Ministers if it would
be within the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if it were contained in
an Act of Senedd Cymru (including any provision that could only be made with
the consent of a Minister of the Crown);

162.4.2A.4.c

provision is within the devolved competence of a Northern Ireland department
if it would be within the legislative competence of the Northern Ireland
Assembly if it were contained in an Act of that Assembly.

162.4.2A.5

Regulations under this section may include provision about administrative
arrangements (including provision about evidential requirements).

162.4.2A.6

Regulations under this section may—

162.4.2A.6.a

confer functions on a public authority (including discretions);

162.4.2A.6.b

provide for the delegation of functions to a public authority.

162.4.2A.7

A devolved authority may give directions to a person about the exercise of any
functions exercisable by the person under regulations made by that devolved
authority by virtue of subsection  (6)  (and may vary or revoke any such
directions).

162.4.2A.8

In this section “ public authority ” means a person who exercises functions of
a public nature.

########### Regulations under section 2A: consent requirements

162.4.2B

162.4.2B.1

The consent of a Minister of the Crown is required before any provision is
made by the Welsh Ministers in regulations under section 2A(1) so far as that
provision, if contained in an Act of Senedd Cymru, would require the consent
of a Minister of the Crown.

162.4.2B.2

The consent of the Secretary of State is required before any provision is made
by a Northern Ireland department in regulations under section 2A(1) so far as
that provision, if contained in a Bill in the Northern Ireland Assembly, would
require the consent of the Secretary of State.

162.5

In section 3 (meaning of “ healthcare ” and “ healthcare agreement ”), for the
definition of “healthcare agreement” substitute—

      “ healthcare agreement ” means an agreement or other commitment between
the United Kingdom and either a country or territory outside the United
Kingdom or an international organisation, concerning healthcare provided
anywhere in the world;

.

162.6

In section 7 (regulations and directions)—

162.a

in subsection (1), after “A power” insert  “of the Secretary of State or Welsh
Ministers” ;

162.b

after subsection (1) insert—

162.b.1A

A power of a Northern Ireland department to make regulations under section 2A
is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules
(Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12) ).

;

162.c

for subsection (4) substitute—

162.c.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act may not be made
by the Secretary of State unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

;

162.d

omit subsection (5);

162.e

after subsection (5) insert—

162.e.5A

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under section 2A are subject to the
affirmative procedure (see Part 2 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

162.e.5B

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 2A may not be made
by the Welsh Ministers unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before
and approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru.

162.e.5C

Regulations may not be made by a Northern Ireland department under section 2A
unless a draft of the regulations has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of the Northern Ireland Assembly.

162.7

In section 8 (short title etc), in subsection (3), for “Healthcare (European
Economic Area and Switzerland Arrangements) Act 2019” substitute  “Healthcare
(International Arrangements) Act 2019” .

#### Social care

##### Regulation of local authority functions relating to adult social care

163

163.1

Chapter 3 of Part 1 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (quality of health
and social care) is amended as follows.

163.2

In section 46 (reviews and performance assessments by the Care Quality
Commission), in the heading, at the end insert  “: registered service
providers” .

163.3

After section 46 insert—

########### Reviews and performance assessments: local authorities

163.3.46A

163.3.46A.1

The Commission must, in accordance with this section—

163.3.46A.1.a

conduct reviews of the exercise of regulated care functions by English local
authorities,

163.3.46A.1.b

assess the performance of those authorities following each such review, and

163.3.46A.1.c

publish a report of its assessment.

163.3.46A.2

In this section “ regulated care functions ” means such functions under Part 1
of the Care Act 2014 (functions relating to adult social care in England) as
may be prescribed.

163.3.46A.3

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may prescribe—

163.3.46A.3.a

all functions of English local authorities under Part 1 of the Care Act 2014
or some of their functions under that Part;

163.3.46A.3.b

the whole of a function or a particular aspect of it.

163.3.46A.4

The Secretary of State—

163.3.46A.4.a

must set, and may from time to time revise, objectives and priorities for the
Commission in relation to the assessment under this section of the performance
of English local authorities, and

163.3.46A.4.b

must inform the Commission of the objectives and priorities.

163.3.46A.5

The Commission—

163.3.46A.5.a

must determine, and may from time to time revise, indicators of quality for
the purposes of the assessment under this section of the performance of
English local authorities, and

163.3.46A.5.b

must obtain the approval of the Secretary of State in relation to the
indicators.

163.3.46A.6

The Secretary of State may direct the Commission to revise the indicators
under subsection  (5) .

163.3.46A.7

Different objectives and priorities may be set, and different indicators of
quality may be determined, for different cases.

163.3.46A.8

The Commission—

163.3.46A.8.a

must prepare, and may from time to time revise, a statement—

163.3.46A.8.a.i

setting out the frequency with which reviews under this section are to be
conducted and the period to which they are to relate, and

163.3.46A.8.a.ii

describing the method that it proposes to use in assessing and evaluating the
performance of a English local authority under this section, and

163.3.46A.8.b

must obtain the approval of the Secretary of State in relation to the
statement.

163.3.46A.9

The Secretary of State may direct the Commission to revise the statement under
subsection  (8) .

163.3.46A.10

The statement may—

163.3.46A.10.a

make different provision about frequency and period of reviews for different
cases, and

163.3.46A.10.b

describe different methods for different cases.

163.3.46A.11

The Commission must publish—

163.3.46A.11.a

the objectives and priorities under subsection  (4) ,

163.3.46A.11.b

the indicators of quality under subsection  (5) , and

163.3.46A.11.c

the statement under subsection  (8) .

163.3.46A.12

For the purposes of this section “ English local authority ” includes the
Council of the Isles of Scilly only so far as references to a local authority
in Part 1 of the Care Act 2014 include references to that Council as a result
of an order under section 128(4) of that Act.

163.4

In section 48 (special reviews and investigations)—

163.4.a

in subsection (2), after “section 46” insert  “, 46A” ;

163.4.b

in subsection (3A), after “treated as a review” insert  “or investigation” .

163.5

In section 50 (failings by English local authorities), in subsection (1),
after “46” insert  “, 46A” .

163.6

In section 60 (inspections)—

163.6.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (c) (but before the “or” at the end)
insert—

163.6.a.ca

the exercise of functions by an English local authority,

;

163.6.b

after subsection (2) insert—

163.6.b.3

In this section “ English local authority ” has the same meaning as in section
46A  (see subsection  (12)  of that section).

##### Default powers of Secretary of State in relation to adult social care

164

164.1

In section 7D of the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 (default powers
of Secretary of State as respects social services functions of local
authorities)—

164.1.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “imposed” to “2002” substitute
“referred to in subsection (4)” ;

164.1.b

after subsection (3) insert—

164.1.b.4

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a duty imposed by or under—

164.1.b.4.a

the Children Act 1989,

164.1.b.4.b

section 1 or 2(4) of the Adoption (Intercountry Aspects) Act 1999,

164.1.b.4.c

the Adoption and Children Act 2002, or

164.1.b.4.d

Part 1 of the Care Act 2014.

164.2

The Care Act 2014 is amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

164.3

After section 72 insert—

########### Default by local authority

############ Default power of Secretary of State

164.3.72A

164.3.72A.1

Where the Secretary of State is satisfied that a local authority is failing,
or has failed, to discharge any of its functions under or by virtue of this
Part to an acceptable standard, the Secretary of State may give to the local
authority any directions that the Secretary of State considers appropriate for
the purpose of addressing the failure.

164.3.72A.2

The directions may include provision requiring the local authority—

164.3.72A.2.a

to act in accordance with advice given by the Secretary of State or a person
nominated by the Secretary of State,

164.3.72A.2.b

to collaborate with the Secretary of State or a person nominated by the
Secretary of State in taking steps specified in the directions, or

164.3.72A.2.c

to provide the Secretary of State or a person nominated by the Secretary of
State with information of a description specified in the directions, on
request or otherwise.

164.3.72A.3

If the Secretary of State considers it necessary for the purpose of addressing
the failure, the directions may include provision—

164.3.72A.3.a

for specified functions of the local authority to be exercised by the
Secretary of State or a person nominated by the Secretary of State for a
period specified in the direction or for so long as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate, and

164.3.72A.3.b

requiring the local authority to comply with any instructions of the Secretary
of State or the nominee in relation to the exercise of the functions.

164.3.72A.4

So far as is appropriate in consequence of directions given by virtue of
subsection  (3) , a reference (however expressed) in an enactment, instrument
or other document to a local authority is to be read as a reference to the
person by whom the function is exercisable.

164.3.72A.5

If directions given by virtue of subsection  (3)  expire or are revoked
without being replaced then, so far as is appropriate in consequence of the
expiry or revocation, a reference (however expressed) in an instrument or
other document to the person by whom the function was exercisable is to be
read as a reference to the local authority to whom the directions were given.

164.3.72A.6

The Secretary of State may, for the purposes of cases in which directions are
given under subsection  (3)(a) , make regulations disapplying or modifying an
enactment which confers a function on the Secretary of State in respect of a
function of a local authority.

164.3.72A.7

Directions under this section may require the local authority to provide
financial assistance to the Secretary of State, or a person nominated by the
Secretary of State, for the purpose of meeting costs incurred by the Secretary
of State or the nominee as a result of the directions.

############ Default power of Secretary of State: supplementary

164.3.72B

164.3.72B.1

Before giving directions under section  72A  the Secretary of State must give
the local authority concerned an opportunity to make representations about the
proposed directions, except so far as the Secretary of State considers that it
is impractical to do so for reasons of urgency.

164.3.72B.2

The power to give directions under section  72A  includes a power to vary or
revoke the directions by subsequent directions.

164.3.72B.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to proposed directions varying
previous directions if the Secretary of State does not consider the variations
to be significant.

164.3.72B.4

Directions under section  72A  must be in writing.

164.3.72B.5

The Secretary of State must publish—

164.3.72B.5.a

any directions given under section  72A , and

164.3.72B.5.b

the reasons for giving them.

164.3.72B.6

Directions under section  72A  are enforceable, on the Secretary of State’s
application, by a mandatory order.

164.4

In section 125(4) (regulations and orders subject to affirmative procedure),
after paragraph (k) insert—

164.4.ka

regulations under section  72A (6)  (modification of enactments where local
authority functions are exercised by the Secretary of State or a nominee);

.

##### Care Quality Commission’s powers in relation to local authority failings

165

165.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 is amended as follows.

165.2

In section 48 (special reviews and investigations), in subsection (6) omit “or
(3)”.

165.3

In section 50 (failings by English local authorities)—

165.3.a

in subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), omit “subject to
subsection (3)”;

165.3.b

for subsections (3) and (4) substitute—

165.3.b.3A

Nothing in subsection (2) prevents a report published under section 46(1)(c),
46A(1)(c), 46B(1)(c) or 48(4) from specifying respects in which the Commission
considers a local authority to be failing and making recommendations to the
local authority for addressing the failure.

##### Cap on care costs for charging purposes

166

166.1

The Care Act 2014 is amended as follows.

166.2

In section 15 (cap on care costs), for subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

166.2.2

The reference to costs accrued in meeting the adult’s eligible needs is a
reference—

166.2.2.a

in relation to eligible needs met by a local authority, to any amount the
local authority charged the adult under section 14(1)(a) or 48(5) for meeting
those needs;

166.2.2.b

in relation to eligible needs met by a person other than a local authority, to
what the cost of meeting those eligible needs would have been to the local
authority that was the responsible local authority when the needs were met.

166.2.3

A reference in subsection (2)(b) to eligible needs does not include any
eligible needs during a period when the adult had neither a personal budget
nor an independent personal budget, other than eligible needs at any time
after a local authority was required to carry out a needs assessment that
resulted in the preparation of a personal budget or an independent personal
budget for the adult.

166.2.3A

For the purposes of this Part an adult’s needs are “eligible needs” if—

166.2.3A.a

the needs meet the eligibility criteria,

166.2.3A.b

the needs are not being met by a carer, and

166.2.3A.c

the adult is ordinarily resident or present in the area of a local authority.

166.2.3B

In this Part, “ the responsible local authority ” means the local authority in
whose area the adult is ordinarily resident or in whose area the adult is
present (where the adult is of no settled residence).

166.3

In section 24 (the steps for the local authority to take), for subsection (3)
substitute—

166.3.3

Where, following a determination under section 13(1), no local authority is
going to meet any of an adult’s needs for care and support, the local
authority that is for the time being the responsible local authority must
prepare an independent personal budget for the adult (see section 28) if—

166.3.3.a

the adult has any eligible needs, and

166.3.3.b

the adult has at any time either—

166.3.3.b.i

asked a local authority that was, at that time, the responsible local
authority, to prepare an independent personal budget, or

166.3.3.b.ii

had needs met by a local authority as mentioned in section 24(1).

166.4

In section 26 (personal budget), for subsections (1) and (2) substitute—

166.4.1

A personal budget is a statement which specifies, in respect of the adult’s
needs which a local authority is required or decides to meet as mentioned in
section 24(1)—

166.4.1.a

the current cost to the local authority of meeting those needs,

166.4.1.b

how much of that cost the adult will be required to pay under section
14(1)(a), and

166.4.1.c

the balance, if any, of the cost referred to in paragraph (a).

166.4.2

If the needs referred to in section 26(1) include eligible needs, the personal
budget must also specify—

166.4.2.a

the current cost to the local authority of meeting those eligible needs,

166.4.2.b

how much of that cost the adult will be required to pay under section
14(1)(a), and

166.4.2.c

where the amount referred to in paragraph (a) includes daily living costs, the
amount attributable to those daily living costs.

166.4.2A

If the adult has needs which a local authority is required or decides to meet
as mentioned in section 24(1) and also has eligible needs which are not being
met by any local authority, the personal budget must specify—

166.4.2A.a

what the current cost would be to the responsible local authority of meeting
those eligible needs, and

166.4.2A.b

where the amount referred to in paragraph (a) includes daily living costs, the
amount attributable to those daily living costs.

166.5

In section 28 (independent personal budget)—

166.5.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

166.5.a.1

An independent personal budget is a statement which specifies what the current
cost would be to the responsible local authority of meeting the adult’s
eligible needs (but the independent personal budget need not specify the cost
of meeting those needs at any time when the local authority required to
prepare it has ceased to be the responsible local authority or at any time
when the adult has needs which a local authority is required or decides to
meet as mentioned in section 24(1)).

;

166.5.b

omit subsection (3).

166.6

In section 29 (care account), in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph
(a), for the words from “the local authority” to “present” substitute  “the
responsible local authority” .

166.7

In section 31 (adults with capacity to request direct payments), in subsection
(1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

166.7.a

a personal budget for an adult specifies an amount under section 26(1)(c) in
respect of any needs, and

.

166.8

In section 32 (adults without capacity to request direct payments), in
subsection (1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

166.8.a

a personal budget for an adult specifies an amount under section 26(1)(c) in
respect of any needs, and

.

166.9

In section 37 (notification, assessment etc.), in subsection (15), omit
paragraph (a).

166.10

In section 80 (Part 1: interpretation), in the table in subsection (1), at the
appropriate places insert—

        Eligible needs Section 15(3A)

        The responsible local authority Section 15(3B)

.

#### Social care: regulation and financial assistance

##### Provision of social care services: financial assistance

167

167.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 is amended as follows.

167.2

In section 149 (power of Secretary of State to give financial assistance in
relation to provision of health or social care services)—

167.2.a

in subsection (1)(a) and (b), omit “or of social care services”;

167.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

167.2.b.1A

The Secretary of State may give financial assistance to bodies which are
engaged in—

167.2.b.1A.a

the provision in England of social care services, or

167.2.b.1A.b

the provision to other persons of services that are connected with the
provision in England by those other persons of social care services.

167.2.b.1B

Assistance may be given to a body under subsection  (1A)  for the purposes of
the provision of social care services only if those services are provided in
England.

167.3

In section 151 (forms of assistance under section 149), in subsection (2)(d),
after “149(1)” insert  “or  (1A) ” .

167.4

For section 153 substitute—

########### Directions to certain NHS bodies

167.4.153

167.4.153.1

The Secretary of State may direct the following to exercise any functions of
the Secretary of State in relation to financial assistance under section
149(1)—

167.4.153.1.a

a National Health Service trust all or most of whose hospitals, establishments
and facilities are situated in England, or

167.4.153.1.b

a Special Health Authority performing functions only or mainly in respect of
England.

167.4.153.2

The Secretary of State may direct any Special Health Authority to exercise any
functions of the Secretary of State in relation to financial assistance under
section 149 (1A) .

167.4.153.3

The Secretary of State may direct the following to exercise any functions of
the Secretary of State in relation to financial assistance under section
149(2) so far as those functions relate to the establishment of bodies which
are to be wholly or mainly engaged in the provision of health services or
services connected to health services—

167.4.153.3.a

a National Health Service trust all or most of whose hospitals, establishments
and facilities are situated in England, or

167.4.153.3.b

a Special Health Authority performing functions only or mainly in respect of
England.

167.4.153.4

The Secretary of State may direct any Special Health Authority to exercise any
functions of the Secretary of State in relation to financial assistance under
section 149(2) so far as they are not functions to which subsection  (3)
above applies.

167.4.153.5

The Secretary of State may give directions to a body about the exercise of any
functions that it is directed to exercise under any of subsections  (1)  to
(4) .

167.5

In section 154 (arrangements with other third parties)—

167.5.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “section 149” insert  “(1)” ;

167.5.b

after subsection (1) insert—

167.5.b.1A

The Secretary of State may make arrangements for—

167.5.b.1A.a

financial assistance under section 149 (1A)  to be given, or

167.5.b.1A.b

other functions relating to such assistance to be exercised,

by a person other than a Special Health Authority (as to Special Health
Authorities, see section 153(2)).

;

167.5.c

in subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5) after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)”
.

167.6

In section 155 (power to form company), after “section 154(1)” insert  “or
(1A)” .

#### Professional regulation

##### Regulation of health care and associated professions

168

168.1

The Health Act 1999 is amended as follows.

168.2

In section 60 (regulation of health professions and social care workers etc)—

168.2.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

168.2.a.bza

deregulating a profession regulated by an enactment to which subsection  (2)
applies if the profession does not appear to Her to require regulation for the
protection of the public,

;

168.2.b

in subsection (1), after paragraph (bd) insert—

168.2.b.be

deregulating any social care workers in England who do not appear to Her to
require regulation for the protection of the public,

;

168.2.c

for subsection (2) substitute—

168.2.c.2

The professions referred to in subsection (1)(a) and  (bza)  are the
professions regulated by any of the following—

168.2.c.2.a

the Medical Act 1983;

168.2.c.2.b

the Dentists Act 1984;

168.2.c.2.c

the Opticians Act 1989;

168.2.c.2.d

the Osteopaths Act 1993;

168.2.c.2.e

the Chiropractors Act 1994;

168.2.c.2.f

the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001;

168.2.c.2.g

the Health Professions Order 2001;

168.2.c.2.h

the Pharmacy Order 2010 and the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976;

168.2.c.2.i

an Order in Council under this section.

;

168.2.d

after subsection (2) insert—

168.2.d.2ZZA

For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) the reference to a profession is to be
treated as including any group of workers, whether or not they are generally
regarded as a profession (and references in this Part to a profession are to
be read accordingly).

;

168.2.e

in subsection (2ZB), for “and (bd)” substitute  “, (bd) and  (be) ” .

168.3

In section 62 (regulations and orders), after subsection (10) insert—

168.3.10A

If any provision made by an Order in Council by virtue of section 60(2ZZA)
would, if it were included in an Act of Senedd Cymru, be within the
legislative competence of the Senedd and is not merely incidental to, or
consequential on, provision that (if so included) would be outside that
competence, no recommendation is to be made to Her Majesty to make the Order
unless the Welsh Ministers have consented to that provision.

168.4

In Schedule 3 (power to make provision about regulation of health care and
associated professions: supplementary)—

168.4.a

after paragraph 1B insert—

############# Power to abolish regulatory bodies

168.4.a.1C

An Order may abolish a regulatory body if (and only if) the professions
regulated by the body or social care workers in England regulated by it—

168.4.a.1C.a

will continue to be regulated by one or more other regulatory bodies, or

168.4.a.1C.b

are deregulated by provision made under section 60(1) (bza) .

;

168.4.b

in paragraph 7 (matters outside scope of the Orders), omit sub-paragraphs (1)
and (1A);

168.4.c

in paragraph 8 (restrictions on provision authorising regulatory body’s
functions to be exercised by others)—

168.4.c.i

in sub-paragraphs (1), (2ZA) and (2A), for the words from “other than” to the
end substitute

to exercise that function other than—

168.4.c.i.a

a regulatory body for—

168.4.c.i.a.i

a profession to which section 60(2) applies, or

168.4.c.i.a.ii

social care workers in England, or

168.4.c.i.b

the committees or officers of such a body.

;

168.4.c.ii

omit sub-paragraph (2B).

#### Medical examiners

##### Medical examiners

169

169.1

After section 18 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 insert—

########### Medical examiners: England

169.1.18A

169.1.18A.1

An English NHS body may appoint persons as medical examiners to discharge in
England the functions conferred on medical examiners by or under this Chapter.

169.1.18A.2

The Secretary of State must take such steps as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring—

169.1.18A.2.a

that enough medical examiners are appointed under subsection  (1)  to enable
those functions to be discharged in England,

169.1.18A.2.b

that the funds and other resources that are made available to such medical
examiners are enough to enable those functions to be discharged in England,
and

169.1.18A.2.c

that the performance of such medical examiners is monitored by reference to
any standards or levels of performance that they are expected to attain.

169.1.18A.3

For the purposes of discharging the duty in subsection  (2) , the Secretary of
State may give a direction to an English NHS body—

169.1.18A.3.a

requiring the body to appoint or arrange for the appointment of one or more
medical examiners,

169.1.18A.3.b

about the funds or other resources to be made available to a medical examiner
employed by an English NHS body,

169.1.18A.3.c

about the steps to be taken by the body to monitor the performance of such a
medical examiner, or

169.1.18A.3.d

about the steps to be taken by the body to monitor the performance of
functions by an English NHS body in relation to such a medical examiner.

169.1.18A.4

In this section “ English NHS body ” means—

169.1.18A.4.a

NHS England,

169.1.18A.4.b

an integrated care board established under section 14Z25 of the National
Health Service Act 2006,

169.1.18A.4.c

a National Health Service trust established under section 25 of that Act,

169.1.18A.4.d

a Special Health Authority established under section 28 of that Act, or

169.1.18A.4.e

an NHS foundation trust within the meaning of section 30 of that Act.

########### Medical examiners: Wales

169.1.18B

169.1.18B.1

A Welsh NHS body may appoint persons as medical examiners to discharge in
Wales the functions conferred on medical examiners by or under this Chapter.

169.1.18B.2

The Welsh Ministers must take such steps as the Welsh Ministers consider
appropriate for the purpose of ensuring—

169.1.18B.2.a

that enough medical examiners are appointed under subsection  (1)  to enable
those functions to be discharged in Wales,

169.1.18B.2.b

that the funds and other resources that are made available to such medical
examiners are enough to enable those functions to be discharged in Wales, and

169.1.18B.2.c

that the performance of such medical examiners is monitored by reference to
any standards or levels of performance that they are expected to attain.

169.1.18B.3

In this section “ Welsh NHS body ” means—

169.1.18B.3.a

a Local Health Board,

169.1.18B.3.b

a National Health Service trust established under section 18 of the National
Health Service (Wales) Act 2006, or

169.1.18B.3.c

a Special Health Authority established under section 22 of that Act.

169.2

In section 19 of that Act (medical examiners)—

169.2.a

in the heading, after “examiners” insert  “: supplementary” ;

169.2.b

omit subsections (1) and (2);

169.2.c

in subsection (5)—

169.2.c.i

after “Nothing in” insert  “section  18A  or  18B  or” ;

169.2.c.ii

for “a local authority or a Local Health Board” substitute  “an English NHS
body (as defined by section  18A ) or a Welsh NHS body (as defined by section
18B )” .

169.3

In section 20 of that Act (medical certificate of cause of death), in
subsection (5), for “a local authority or Local Health Board” substitute  “an
English NHS body (as defined by section  18A ) or a Welsh NHS body (as defined
by section  18B )” .

169.4

In section 48 of that Act (interpretation: general), in subsection (1), in the
definition of “medical examiner”, for “section 19” substitute  “section  18A
or  18B ” .

169.5

In section 41 of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953 (interpretation),
in subsection (1), in the definition of “medical examiner”, for “means a
person appointed under section 19” substitute  “has the meaning given by
section 48(1)” .

169.6

In the Health and Social Care Act 2012 omit section 54 (which inserted
references to local authorities into sections 19 and 20 of the Coroners and
Justice Act 2009).

#### Organ trafficking

##### Commercial dealings in organs for transplantation: extra-territorial offences

170

170.1

After section 32 of the Human Tissue Act 2004 insert—

########### Offences under section 32 committed outside UK

170.1.32A

170.1.32A.1

If—

170.1.32A.1.a

a person who is habitually resident in England and Wales, or who is a UK
national and not habitually resident in Northern Ireland, does an act outside
the United Kingdom,

170.1.32A.1.b

the act, if done in England and Wales, would constitute an offence under
section 32(1), and

170.1.32A.1.c

the controlled material to which the act relates is controlled material
consisting of or including a human organ,

the person is guilty in England and Wales of that offence.

170.1.32A.2

In this section “ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

170.1.32A.2.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

170.1.32A.2.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

170.1.32A.2.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

170.2

After section 20 of the Human Tissue (Scotland) Act 2006 insert—

########### Offences under section 20 committed outside UK

170.2.20A

170.2.20A.1

If—

170.2.20A.1.a

a person who is habitually resident in Scotland, or who is a UK national and
not habitually resident in Northern Ireland, does an act outside the United
Kingdom, and

170.2.20A.1.b

the act, if done in Scotland, would constitute an offence under section 20(1),
and

170.2.20A.1.c

the part of the human body to which the act relates consists of or includes a
human organ,

the person is guilty in Scotland of that offence.

170.2.20A.2

In this section “ United Kingdom national ” means an individual who is—

170.2.20A.2.a

a British citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National
(Overseas) or a British Overseas citizen,

170.2.20A.2.b

a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981 is a British subject, or

170.2.20A.2.c

a British protected person within the meaning of that Act.

170.2.20A.3

Where a person outside the United Kingdom commits an offence under section
20(1) the person may be prosecuted, tried and punished for the offence—

170.2.20A.3.a

in a sheriff court district in which the person is apprehended or in custody,
or

170.2.20A.3.b

in a sheriff court district determined by the Lord Advocate,

as if the offence had been committed in that district.

170.2.20A.4

Where subsection  (3)  applies, the offence is, for all purposes incidental to
or consequential on the trial and punishment, deemed to have been committed in
that district.

170.2.20A.5

In this section “ sheriff court district ” is to be construed in accordance
with section 307(1) of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995
(interpretation).

#### Human fertilisation and embryology

##### Storage of gametes and embryos

171

Schedule 17—

171.a

contains amendments to the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 which
make provision relating to the storage of gametes and embryos, and

171.b

makes transitional provision in relation to those amendments.

#### Food and drink

##### Advertising of less healthy food and drink

172

Schedule 18 amends the Communications Act 2003 to restrict the advertising of
certain food and drink products.

##### Hospital food standards

173

In section 20 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (regulation of regulated
activities)—

173.a

in subsection (3), after paragraph (d), insert—

173.a.da

impose requirements in connection with food or drink provided or made
available to any person on hospital premises in England that are used in
connection with the carrying on of a regulated activity;

;

173.b

after subsection (4A) insert—

173.b.4B

Regulations made under this section by virtue of subsection (3)(da) may in
particular—

173.b.4B.a

specify nutritional standards, or other nutritional requirements, which are to
be complied with;

173.b.4B.b

require that specified descriptions of food or drink are not to be provided or
made available.

173.c

after subsection (5B) insert—

173.c.5C

In subsection (3)(da) “ hospital ” has the meaning given by section 275 of the
National Health Service Act 2006.

##### Food information for consumers: power to amend retained EU law

174

174.1

In section 16 of the Food Safety Act 1990 (regulations about food labelling
etc), after subsection (3) insert—

174.1.3A

Regulations under subsection (1)(e) may amend  Regulation (EU) No 1169/2011
of the European Parliament and of the Council on the provision of food
information to consumers.

174.1.3B

The inclusion in that Regulation of savings in respect of the power to make
regulations under this Act of a particular kind is not to be taken as in any
way limiting the generality of the provision that may be made by virtue of
subsections (1)(e) and (3A).

174.2

In section 48 (regulations and orders)—

174.2.a

in subsection (3), after “shall” insert  “, unless the instrument contains
regulations which include provision made by virtue of section 16(3A),” ;

174.2.b

after subsection (3) insert—

174.2.b.3A

A statutory instrument containing regulations which include provision made by
virtue of section 16(3A) may not be made by the Secretary of State unless a
draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament.

174.2.b.3B

A statutory instrument containing regulations which include provision made by
virtue of section 16(3A) may not be made by the Welsh Ministers unless a draft
of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of Senedd
Cymru.

174.2.b.3C

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers which include provision made by
virtue of section 16(3A) are subject to the affirmative procedure (see Part 2
of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

#### Fluoridation of water supplies

##### Fluoridation of water supplies

175

175.1

The Water Industry Act 1991, as amended by the Health and Social Care Act
2012, is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (7).

175.2

In section 87 (fluoridation of water supplies at request of relevant
authorities)—

175.2.a

omit subsection (3A);

175.2.b

in subsection (4), in paragraph (a), for the words from “as the Secretary of
State” to the end of that paragraph substitute  “in England as the Secretary
of State may determine” ;

175.2.c

in subsection (6), at the beginning insert  “Subject to subsection (6A)” ;

175.2.d

after subsection (6) insert—

175.2.d.6A

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that, in circumstances
specified in the regulations, subsection (6)(a) is not to apply in relation to
arrangements entered into by the Secretary of State.

175.2.d.6B

The Secretary of State may by regulations require a public body specified in
the regulations to make payments to the Secretary of State to meet any costs
incurred by the Secretary of State under the terms of the arrangements.

;

175.2.e

omit subsections (7A) and (7B);

175.2.f

after subsection (7F) insert—

175.2.f.7G

Before making regulations under subsection  (6A)  or  (6B)  the Secretary of
State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

;

175.2.g

in subsection (11), for “the Welsh Ministers” substitute  “a relevant
authority” ;

175.2.h

after subsection (11) insert—

175.2.h.12

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (6A)  is not
to be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and approved
by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

175.3

In section 87A (target concentration of fluoride), omit subsection (3A).

175.4

Omit sections 88B to 88O (procedural requirements in connection with
fluoridation of water supplies).

175.5

In section 89 (consultation)—

175.5.a

in the heading, omit “: Wales”;

175.5.b

in subsection (1)—

175.5.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “the Welsh Ministers” substitute  “a
relevant authority” ;

175.5.b.ii

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “the Welsh Ministers” substitute  “that
authority” ;

175.5.c

in subsection (3), in paragraph (a), for “the Welsh Ministers are” substitute
“the relevant authority is” ;

175.5.d

in subsection (4)—

175.5.d.i

for “the Welsh Ministers”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “a
relevant authority” ;

175.5.d.ii

for “the Welsh Ministers so direct” substitute  “that authority so directs” .

175.6

In section 90A (review of fluoridation), omit subsection (5A).

175.7

In section 213 (power to make regulations), in subsection (1), after “36A”
insert  “, 87(6A)” .

175.8

In consequence of the amendments made by this section, omit section 36 of the
Health and Social Care Act 2012.

175.9

The reference in section 213(1A) of the Water Industry Act 1991 to the first
exercise of the power to make regulations under section 89 is to be read as a
reference to the first exercise of the power to make regulations under that
section as amended by subsection  (5) .

##### Fluoridation of water supplies: transitional provision

176

176.1

The Water Industry Act 1991 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
and  (3) .

176.2

After section 90A insert—

########### Old English fluoridation arrangements: transitional provision

176.2.90B

176.2.90B.1

With effect from the day on which section 176 of the Health and Care Act 2022
comes into force, old English fluoridation arrangements are to be treated for
the purposes of this Chapter as if they were arrangements entered into by the
water undertaker with the Secretary of State under section 87(1).

176.2.90B.2

The Secretary of State may request such modifications to the arrangements as
the Secretary of State considers necessary in order to give effect to
subsection (1) (for example to insert the terms mentioned in section 87(6)).

176.2.90B.3

If the Secretary of State and the water undertaker fail to agree the
modifications requested by the Secretary of State—

176.2.90B.3.a

subsection (2) or, as the case may be, (4) of section 87B is to apply as if
the parties had failed to agree the terms of the arrangements under section
87(1), and

176.2.90B.3.b

following determination of the modifications—

176.2.90B.3.b.i

the Secretary of State is to give notice of the determination to the water
undertaker, and

176.2.90B.3.b.ii

the arrangements are deemed to have been modified as so determined with effect
from the day after the date of notice.

176.2.90B.4

Sections 87(11) and 89(1) (which relate to consultation) do not apply to the
deemed entry into, and modification of, arrangements by virtue of this
section.

176.2.90B.5

References in this Chapter to arrangements entered into under section 87(1)
include arrangements entered into by a water undertaker by virtue of
subsection (1).

176.2.90B.6

In this section “ old English fluoridation arrangements ” means—

176.2.90B.6.a

any arrangements entered into by a water undertaker with a Strategic Health
Authority under section 87(1) of the Water Industry Act 1991 (before section
87(3) was amended by section 35(2) of the Health and Social Care Act 2012 in
relation to England), and

176.2.90B.6.b

any arrangements which were treated as arrangements falling within paragraph
(a) by virtue of section 91 (as that section had effect immediately before the
commencement of section 37(4) of the Health and Social Care Act 2012).

176.3

In section 91—

176.3.a

for the heading substitute  “Old Welsh fluoridation arrangements: transitional
provision” ;

176.3.b

in subsection (1)—

176.3.b.i

for “relevant pre-1985 arrangements” substitute  “old Welsh fluoridation
arrangements” ;

176.3.b.ii

for “relevant authority” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” ;

176.3.c

in subsection (2), for “relevant authority” substitute  “Welsh Ministers” ;

176.3.d

in subsection (3)—

176.3.d.i

for “relevant authority”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “Welsh
Ministers” ;

176.3.d.ii

in the words before paragraph (a), for “the authority” substitute  “the Welsh
Ministers” ;

176.3.d.iii

in paragraph (a), omit “(2),”;

176.3.e

in subsection (6)—

176.3.e.i

in the definition of “the appointed day”, after “force” insert  “in relation
to Wales” ;

176.3.e.ii

for the definition of “relevant pre-1985 arrangements” substitute—

      “ old Welsh fluoridation arrangements ” means arrangements, other than
arrangements mentioned in section 90B(6), in pursuance of which a scheme for
increasing the fluoride content of water was being operated by a water
undertaker by virtue of paragraph 1 of Schedule 7 to this Act immediately
before the appointed day.

176.4

In consequence of the amendments made by this section, omit section 37 of the
Health and Social Care Act 2012.

#### Disputes about treatment of critically ill children

##### Review into disputes relating to treatment of critically ill children

177

177.1

The Secretary of State must arrange for the carrying out of a review into the
causes of disputes between (on the one hand) persons with parental
responsibility for a critically ill child and (on the other) persons
responsible for the provision of care or medical treatment for the child as
part of the health service in England.

177.2

The Secretary of State must publish and lay before Parliament a report on the
outcome of the review, within one year beginning with the date on which this
section comes into force.

177.3

In this section—

      “ child ” means a person aged under 18;           “ health service in
England ” means the health service continued under section 1(1) of the
National health Service Act 2006;           “ parental responsibility ” has
the meaning given by section 3 of the Children Act 1989.

#### Termination of pregnancy

##### Early medical termination of pregnancy

178

178.1

Section 1 of the Abortion Act 1967 is amended as follows.

178.2

In subsection (3), for “subsection” substitute  “subsections  (3B)  to” .

178.3

In subsection (3A)—

178.3.a

the words from “includes” to the end become paragraph (a);

178.3.b

after that paragraph insert—

178.3.b.b

is not limited by subsections  (3C)  and  (3D) .

178.4

After subsection (3A) insert—

178.4.3B

Subsections  (3C)  and  (3D)  apply where—

178.4.3B.a

the treatment referred to in subsection (3) consists of the prescription and
administration of medicine, and

178.4.3B.b

the registered medical practitioner terminating the pregnancy is of the
opinion, formed in good faith, that, if the medicine is administered in
accordance with their instructions, the pregnancy will not exceed ten weeks at
the time when the medicine is administered (or in the case of a course of
medicine, when the first medicine in the course is administered).

178.4.3C

If the usual place of residence of the registered medical practitioner
terminating the pregnancy is in England or Wales, the medicine may be
prescribed from that place by the registered medical practitioner.

178.4.3D

If the pregnant woman’s usual place of residence is in England or Wales and
she has had a consultation (in person, by telephone or by electronic means)
with a registered medical practitioner, registered nurse or registered midwife
about the termination of the pregnancy, the medicine may be self-administered
by the pregnant woman at that place.

#### Child safeguarding: information sharing

##### Child safeguarding etc in health and care: policy about information sharing

179

179.1

The Secretary of State must publish and lay before Parliament a report
describing the government’s policy in relation to the sharing of information
by or with public authorities in the exercise of relevant functions of those
authorities, for purposes relating to—

179.1.a

children’s health or social care, or

179.1.b

the safeguarding or promotion of the welfare of children.

179.2

In this section, “ relevant functions ” means functions relating to children’s
health or social care, so far as exercisable in relation to England.

179.3

The report must include an explanation of whether or to what extent it is the
government’s policy that a consistent identifier should be used for each
child, to facilitate the sharing of information.

179.4

The report must include a summary of the Secretary of State’s views about
implementation of the policy referred to in subsection  (1) , including any
views about steps that should be taken to overcome barriers to implementation.

179.5

The report must be published and laid before Parliament within one year
beginning with the date on which this section comes into force.

179.6

In this section “ child ” means a person aged under 18.

#### Cosmetic procedures

##### Licensing of cosmetic procedures

180

180.1

The Secretary of State may, for the purposes of reducing the risk of harm to
the health or safety of members of the public, make regulations—

180.1.a

prohibiting an individual in England from carrying out specified cosmetic
procedures in the course of business, unless the person has a personal
licence;

180.1.b

prohibiting a person from using or permitting the use of premises in England
for the carrying out of specified cosmetic procedures in the course of
business, unless the person has a premises licence.

180.2

In this section—

“ cosmetic procedure ” means a procedure, other than a surgical or dental
procedure, that is or may be carried out for cosmetic purposes; and the
reference to a procedure includes— the injection of a substance; the
application of a substance that is capable of penetrating into or through the
epidermis; the insertion of needles into the skin; the placing of threads
under the skin; the application of light, electricity, cold or heat; “
licensed premises ” means premises in respect of which a premises licence is
in force; “ local authority ” means— a county council in England; a district
council in England; a London borough council; a combined authority established
under section 103 of the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009;   a combined county authority established under section
9(1) of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act 2023;   the Common Council of
the City of London (in its capacity as a local authority), the Sub-Treasurer
of the Inner Temple or the Under Treasurer of the Middle Temple; the Council
of the Isles of Scilly; “ personal licence ” means a licence, granted by a
specified local authority under the regulations, which authorises an
individual to carry out a cosmetic procedure of a description specified in the
licence; “ premises licence ” means a licence, granted by a specified local
authority under the regulations, which authorises premises to be used for the
carrying out of a cosmetic procedure of a description specified in the
licence; “ specified cosmetic procedure ” means a cosmetic procedure of a
description specified in the regulations; “ specified local authority ” means
a local authority of a description specified in the regulations.

180.3

The provision which may be made by regulations under this section by virtue of
section 183(1)(a) includes—

180.3.a

provision amending Schedule 5 to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (investigatory
powers);

180.3.b

provision repealing, revoking or amending provision made by or under any local
Act.

180.4

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

180.5

Schedule 19 makes further provision about regulations under this section
(including provision for the imposition of fees, the creation of criminal
offences and financial penalties).

#### Disability and autism training

##### Mandatory training on learning disability and autism

181

181.1

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (6) .

181.2

In section 20 (regulation of regulated activities), after subsection (5)
insert—

181.2.5ZA

Regulations under this section must require service providers to ensure that
each person working for the purpose of the regulated activities carried on by
them receives training on learning disability and autism which is appropriate
to the person’s role.

181.3

After subsection (5C) (as inserted by section 173) insert—

181.3.5D

In subsection  (5ZA) —

      “ learning disability ” has the meaning given by section 1(4) of the
Mental Health Act 1983;           “ service provider ” means a person
registered under this Chapter as a service provider in respect of a regulated
activity.

181.4

After section 21 insert—

########### Learning disability and autism training: code of practice

181.4.21A

181.4.21A.1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice about compliance with
requirements imposed by virtue of section 20 (5ZA)  (requirements relating to
training on learning disability and autism).

181.4.21A.2

The code must make provision about—

181.4.21A.2.a

the content of training;

181.4.21A.2.b

training appropriate to different roles;

181.4.21A.2.c

circumstances in which it is appropriate for training to be delivered in
person;

181.4.21A.2.d

the involvement of people with learning disability, autistic people, or their
carers, in the provision of training;

181.4.21A.2.e

accreditation of training;

181.4.21A.2.f

procurement of training;

181.4.21A.2.g

monitoring and evaluation of the impact of training;

181.4.21A.3

The code may make different provision for different cases or circumstances.

181.4.21A.4

The Secretary of State must, at least once every five years—

181.4.21A.4.a

review the code, and

181.4.21A.4.b

lay before Parliament a report setting out the findings of the review.

181.5

In section 22 (consultation in relation to code of practice under section 21)—

181.5.a

for the heading substitute  “Codes of practice: consultation and Parliamentary
scrutiny” ;

181.5.b

in subsection (1), after “21” insert  “or  21A ” ;

181.5.c

in subsection (2), after “21” insert  “or  21A ” ;

181.5.d

in subsection (3), after “(2)” insert  “in relation to a draft of a code or
revised code under section 21” ;

181.5.e

after subsection (5) insert—

181.5.e.5A

Where, following consultation under subsection (1) or (2) in relation to a
draft of a code or revised code under section  21A , the Secretary of State
decides to proceed with the draft (in its original form or with
modifications), the Secretary of State must lay a copy of the draft before
Parliament.

181.5.e.5B

The Secretary of State may not issue the code or revised code if, within the
40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to approve it.

181.5.e.5C

In this section “ 40-day period ” means—

181.5.e.5C.a

the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the draft is laid before
Parliament, or

181.5.e.5C.b

if the draft is not laid before each House on the same day, the period of 40
days beginning with the later of the days on which it is laid before
Parliament.

181.5.e.5D

For the purposes of subsection  (5C) , no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

181.5.e.5D.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

181.5.e.5D.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

181.6

In section 25 (effect of code under section 21 and guidance under section 23)—

181.6.a

in the heading, after “s. 21” insert  “or  21A ” ;

181.6.b

in subsection (1), for “A code of practice under section 21” substitute
“Codes of practice under sections 21 and  21A ” ;

181.6.c

in subsection (2),

181.6.c.i

for “A code of practice under section 21 or” substitute  “Codes of practice
under sections 21 and  21A  and” ;

181.6.c.ii

for “is” substitute  “are” ;

181.6.d

in subsection (3), after “21” insert  “or  21A ” .

181.7

Until the first regulations made by virtue of section 20 (5ZA)  of the Health
and Social Care Act 2008 (as inserted by subsection  (2) ) come into force—

181.7.a

the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (Regulated Activities) Regulations 2014 (
S.I. 2014/2936 ) (“ the 2014 regulations ”), and

181.7.b

the Health and Social Care Act 2008,

are to be read as if regulation 18 of the 2014 regulations contained such
requirements.

### General

#### Power to make consequential provision

182

182.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision that is consequential
on this Act.

182.2

Regulations under this section may amend, repeal or revoke provision made by
this Act or any provision made by or under primary legislation passed—

182.2.a

before this Act, or

182.2.b

later in the same session of Parliament as this Act.

182.3

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

182.3.a

an Act,

182.3.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

182.3.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

182.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Regulations

183

183.1

A power to make regulations under any provision of this Act includes power to
make—

183.1.a

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional or saving provision;

183.1.b

different provision for different purposes.

183.2

A power to make regulations under section 92, 103 or 104 includes power to
make different provision for England, Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland.

183.3

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

183.4

A statutory instrument containing any of the following (whether alone or with
other provision) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been
laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament—

183.4.a

regulations under section 20 (4) ;

183.4.b

regulations under section 92;

183.4.c

regulations under section 103 or 104;

183.4.d

regulations under section 123;

183.4.e

regulations under section 180;

183.4.f

regulations under section 182 that amend or repeal provision made by primary
legislation (as defined by section 182 (3) ).

183.5

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under section 182 is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

183.6

This section does not apply to regulations under section 186.

#### Financial provision

184

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

184.a

any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State under or by virtue of this
Act, and

184.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Extent

185

185.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject to subsections  (2)  to
(5) .

185.2

The following extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland—

185.2.a

in Part 1, paragraph  1(3)  and  (4)  of Schedule 1 (renaming of NHS
Commissioning Board);

185.2.b

in Part 2, sections 92 to 94 (information about payments etc to persons in the
health care sector);

185.2.c

Part 3 (Secretary of State’s powers to transfer or delegate functions);

185.2.d

in Part 4, section 125 (restriction of statutory powers requiring disclosure);

185.2.e

in Part 6, section 171 and Part 2 of Schedule 17 (storage of gametes and
embryos);

185.2.f

this Part.

185.3

The following extend to Scotland only—

185.3.a

sections 140 to 143 (offences relating to virginity testing);

185.3.b

sections 152 to 155 (offences relating to hymenoplasty).

185.4

The following extend to Northern Ireland only—

185.4.a

sections 144 to 147 (offences relating to virginity testing);

185.4.b

sections 156 to 159 (offences relating to hymenoplasty).

185.5

An amendment, repeal or revocation made by this Act has the same extent as the
provision amended, repealed or revoked.

#### Commencement

186

186.1

This Part comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

186.2

Section 161(2) comes into force on such day as the Welsh Ministers may by
regulations appoint.

186.3

Section 171 and Schedule 17 (storage of gametes and embryos) come into force
on 1 July 2022.

186.4

Section 172 and Schedule 18 (advertising of less healthy food and drink) come
into force at the end of the period of two months beginning with the day on
which this Act is passed.

186.5

Section 179 comes into force at the end of the period of three months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

186.6

Except as mentioned in subsections  (1)  to  (5) , this Act comes into force
on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

186.7

Different days may be appointed under subsection  (2)  or  (6)  for different
purposes.

186.8

In relation to section 166, different days may be appointed under subsection
(6)  for different areas.

186.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of any provision of this
Act.

186.10

The Welsh Ministers may by regulations make transitional or saving provision
in connection with the coming into force of section 161(2).

186.11

The power to make regulations under subsection  (9)  or  (10)  includes power
to make different provision for different purposes.

186.12

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

187

This Act may be cited as the Health and Care Act 2022.

## SCHEDULES

Renaming of NHS Commissioning Board

Section 1

##### General

1

1.1

The enactments listed in sub-paragraph  (2)  are amended in accordance with
the table.

For the following expression wherever it occurs in those enactments (unless
the expression is replaced or removed by an amendment elsewhere in this Act)
substitute “The National Health Service Commissioning Board” “NHS England”
“the National Health Service Commissioning Board” “NHS England” “the National
Health Service Commissioning Board (“ the Board ”)” “NHS England” “The Board”
“NHS England” “the Board” “NHS England” “The Board’s” “NHS England’s”

1.2

The enactments are—

the Reserve and Auxiliary Forces (Protection of Civil Interests) Act 1951,
Schedule 2; the Public Records Act 1958, Part 1 of the Table at the end of
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1; the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960,
the Schedule; the Leasehold Reform Act 1967, section 28; the Parliamentary
Commissioner Act 1967, Schedule 3; the Health Services and Public Health Act
1968, sections 63(1) and (2) and 64; the Employers’ Liability (Compulsory
Insurance) Act 1969, section 3; the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970,
Schedule 1; the Local Government Act 1972, section 113; the Health and Safety
at Work etc. Act 1974, section 60; the National Health Service (Scotland) Act
1978, section 17A; the Acquisition of Land Act 1981, sections 16 and 17; the
Mental Health Act 1983, sections 12ZB, 12ZC, 39, 117, 134 and 139; the
Disabled Persons (Services, Consultation and Representation) Act 1986,
sections 2 and 7; the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, section 48; the
Children Act 1989, sections 21, 24, 24C, 27, 29, 47, 80, 85 and 105; the
London Local Authorities Act 1991 (c xiii) , section 4; the Health Service
Commissioners Act 1993, sections 2 and 2A; the Value Added Tax Act 1994,
section 41 and Schedule 8; the Education Act 1996, section 322; the Employment
Rights Act 1996, sections 43K, 49B, 50 and 218; the Housing Grants,
Construction and Regeneration Act 1996, section 3; the Crime and Disorder Act
1998, section 115; the Greater London Authority Act 1999, section 309E; the
Health Act 1999, section 61; the Freedom of Information Act 2000, Schedule 1;
the Local Government Act 2000, section 9FF; the Adoption and Children Act
2002, section 8; the International Development Act 2002, Schedule 1; the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, section 133; the Criminal
Justice Act 2003, section 325; the Finance Act 2003, section 67A; the Health
and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003, sections 148 and
165; the Children Act 2004, sections 10 and 11; the Civil Contingencies Act
2004, Schedule 1; the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004, section
9; the Armed Forces Act 2006, section 343AA (as inserted by section 8(3) of
the Armed Forces Act 2021); the Childcare Act 2006, section 4; the Emergency
Workers (Obstruction) Act 2006, section 1; the National Health Service Act
2006, except section 275; the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006,
sections 7, 13, 17, 26, 28, 34, 106, 115, 162, 197, 206 and Schedule 5; the
NHS Redress Act 2006, section 1; the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006,
section 6; the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007, section
6; the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007, sections
104, 116, 222, 224 and 227; the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007,
section 42(4A); the Health and Social Care Act 2008, sections 20A, 30, 39,
45A, 48, 54, 59, 64, 80, 81 and 97; the Autism Act 2009, section 4; the Health
Act 2009, sections 2, 8 and 36; the Charities Act 2011, section 149; the
Health and Social Care Act 2012, sections 83, 84, 102, 130, 197, 234, 236,
237, 239, 241, 249, 250(4) and (7), 253, 254, 255, 260, 263, 265, 268, 274,
295, 296, 298 and Schedule 12; the Care Act 2014, sections 6, 22 and 101 and
Schedule 1; the Children and Families Act 2014, sections 26, 28, 31, 53, 56,
57 and 77; the Immigration Act 2014, Schedule 3; the Local Audit and
Accountability Act 2014, section 13 and Schedules 7 and 11; the Cities and
Local Government Devolution Act 2016, section 18; the Data Protection Act
2018, Schedule 3; the Mental Health Units (Use of Force) Act 2018, section 9.

1.3

In any other enactment (apart from this Act) passed before the day on which
section 1 comes into force, and in any instrument or other document made
before that day, any reference to the National Health Service Commissioning
Board is to be read, in relation to any time on or after that day, as a
reference to NHS England.

1.4

In this paragraph “ enactment ” includes an enactment comprised in, or in an
instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish Parliament.

##### House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975

2

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975, in
the entry relating to the chairman or non-executive member of the National
Health Service Commissioning Board, for “the National Health Service
Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Access to Health Records Act 1990

3

In section 1(2) of the Access to Health Records Act 1990 as it has effect
under the law of England and Wales—

3.a

in paragraph (a)—

3.a.i

for “the National Health Service Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS
England” ;

3.a.ii

after “contract with” insert  “NHS England” ;

3.b

in paragraph (aa)—

3.b.i

for “the National Health Service Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS
England” ;

3.b.ii

after “arrangements with” insert  “NHS England” .

##### Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992

4

In section 279(1) of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act
1992—

4.a

in paragraph (a), for “the National Health Service Commissioning Board”
substitute  “NHS England” ;

4.b

in the words after paragraph (b), for “board” substitute  “body” .

##### Employment Rights Act 1996

5

In section 43K(2)(b) of the Employment Rights Act 1996 for “the authority or
board” substitute  “NHS England or the board” .

##### National Health Service Act 2006

6

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

7

In the heading of section 3B, for “Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

8

In the heading of section 13A, for “Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

9

In the heading of section 13W, for “Board’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

10

In the heading of section 13Y, for “Board’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

11

In section 275(1)—

11.a

omit the definition of “the Board”;

11.b

in the definition of “NHS body” for paragraph (a) substitute—

NHS England,

.

12

In Schedule 1A, in the italic heading before paragraph 18, for “Board”
substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Corporation Tax Act 2010

13

In section 986 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, in the table, for “National
Health Service Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Equality Act 2010

14

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010, in the group of entries
that includes entries for bodies whose functions relate to health, social care
and social security, for “The National Health Service Commissioning Board”
substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

15

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

16

In section 150, omit subsection (2).

17

In the heading of section 197, for “NHS Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS
England” .

18

In section 247, omit the definition of “the Board”.

19

In section 250(1), for “the National Health Service Commissioning Board
(referred to in this Chapter as “ the Board ”)” substitute  “NHS England” .

20

In the heading of section 274, for “Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

21

In section 275, omit the definition of “the Board”.

22

In section 304(12)(a)(iv) and (ix), for “Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

23

In Schedule 9 to the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014, in paragraph
4(12), for paragraph (c) of the definition of “relevant NHS body” substitute—

23.c

NHS England;

.

##### Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 4)

24

The Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

25

In section 47(10)—

25.a

in the English language text—

25.a.i

in the definition of “English health body”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

NHS England;

;

25.a.ii

in the definition of “health body”, for paragraph (c) substitute—

NHS England;

;

25.b

in the Welsh language text—

25.b.i

in the definition of “corff iechyd”, for paragraph (c) substitute—

GIG Lloegr;

;

25.b.ii

in the definition of “corff iechyd Seisnig”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

GIG Lloegr;

.

26

In section 77(4)(b)(ii)—

26.a

in the English language text, for “the National Health Service Commissioning
Board” substitute  “NHS England” ;

26.b

in the Welsh language text, for “Bwrdd Comisiynu’r Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol”
substitute  “GIG Lloegr” .

27

In section 104(3)(d)(ii)—

27.a

in the English language text, for “the National Health Service Commissioning
Board” substitute  “NHS England” ;

27.b

in the Welsh language text, for “Fwrdd Comisiynu’r Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol”
substitute  “GIG Lloegr” .

28

In section 118(2)(c)—

28.a

in the English language text, for “the National Health Service Commissioning
Board” substitute  “NHS England” ;

28.b

in the Welsh language text, for “Fwrdd Comisiynu’r Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol”
substitute  “GIG Lloegr” .

29

In section 164A(4)—

29.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (c) substitute—

29.a.c

NHS England;

;

29.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (c) substitute—

29.b.c

GIG Lloegr;

.

30

In section 193(4)(c)—

30.a

in the English language text, for “the National Health Service Commissioning
Board” substitute  “NHS England” ;

30.b

in the Welsh language text, for “Bwrdd Comisiynu’r Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol”
substitute  “GIG Lloegr” .

31

In section 197(1)—

31.a

in the English language text, for the definition of “National Health Service
Commissioning Board” substitute—

“ NHS England ” (“ GIG Lloegr ”) means the body established under section 1H
of the National Health Service Act 2006;

;

31.b

in the Welsh language text, omit the definition of “Bwrdd Comisiynu’r
Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol” and at the appropriate place insert—

“ystyr “ GIG Lloegr ” (“ NHS England ”) yw’r corff a sefydlir o dan adran 1H o
Ddeddf y Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol 2006;

.

##### Housing (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 7)

32

In section 70(2)(d)(ii) of the Housing (Wales) Act 2014—

32.a

in the English language text, for “the National Health Service Commissioning
Board” substitute  “NHS England” ;

32.b

in the Welsh language text, for “Fwrdd Comisiynu’r Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol”
substitute  “GIG Lloegr” .

##### Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016

33

In section 18(2)(d) and (5)(b) of the Cities and Local Government Devolution
Act 2016, for “the NHS Commissioning Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2)

34

The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 is
amended as follows.

35

In section 4(3)—

35.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (i) substitute—

35.a.i

NHS England;

;

35.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (i) substitute—

35.b.i

GIG Lloegr;

.

36

In section 65(4)—

36.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (j) substitute—

36.a.j

NHS England;

;

36.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (j) substitute—

36.b.j

GIG Lloegr;

.

37

In section 99(1)—

37.a

in the English language text, omit the definition of “National Health Service
Commissioning Board” and at the appropriate place insert—

“ NHS England ” (“ GIG Lloegr ”) means the body established under section 1H
of the National Health Service Act 2006;

;

37.b

in the Welsh language text, omit the definition of “Bwrdd Comisiynu’r
Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol” and at the appropriate place insert—

“ystyr “ GIG Lloegr ” (“ NHS England ”) yw’r corff a sefydlir o dan adran 1H o
Ddeddf y Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol 2006;

.

##### Domestic Abuse Act 2021

38

In section 15 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (duty to co-operate with the
Domestic Abuse Commissioner), in subsection (7), for paragraph (c) of the
definition of “NHS body in England” substitute—

NHS England, or

.

  Integrated care boards: constitution etc

Section 19

1

Before Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—

  Integrated care boards

########## Constitution of integrated care boards

########### Introduction

1.1

An integrated care board must have a constitution.

########### Name and area

1.2

The constitution must specify—

1.2.a

the name of the integrated care board, and

1.2.b

the area for which it is established.

########### Membership: general

1.3

1.3.1

The constitution must provide for the integrated care board to consist of—

1.3.1.a

a chair (see paragraphs  5  and  6 ),

1.3.1.b

a chief executive (see paragraph  7 ), and

1.3.1.c

at least three other members (see paragraph  8 ).

1.3.2

In this Part of this Schedule a reference to an “ordinary member” is to a
member other than the chair or chief executive.

1.4

The constitution must prohibit a person from appointing someone as a member
(“the candidate”) if they consider that the appointment could reasonably be
regarded as undermining the independence of the health service because of the
candidate’s involvement with the private healthcare sector or otherwise.

########### Chair

1.5

The constitution must provide for the chair to be appointed by NHS England,
with the approval of the Secretary of State.

1.6

The constitution may not confer power to remove the chair from office on any
person other than NHS England, and any such power must be expressed to be
subject to the approval of the Secretary of State.

########### Chief executive

1.7

1.7.1

The constitution must provide for the chief executive to be appointed by the
chair, with the approval of NHS England.

1.7.2

The constitution must provide that a person is eligible to become or remain
the chief executive only if the person is an employee of the integrated care
board.

########### Ordinary members

1.8

1.8.1

The constitution must—

1.8.1.a

specify who is to appoint the ordinary members, and

1.8.1.b

provide that the appointment of an ordinary member is subject to the approval
of the chair.

1.8.2

The constitution must provide for the ordinary members to include—

1.8.2.a

at least one member nominated jointly by the NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts that—

1.8.2.a.i

provide services for the purposes of the health service within the integrated
care board’s area, and

1.8.2.a.ii

are of a prescribed description,

1.8.2.b

at least one member nominated jointly by persons who—

1.8.2.b.i

provide primary medical services for the purposes of the health service within
the integrated care board’s area, and

1.8.2.b.ii

are of a prescribed description,

1.8.2.c

at least one member nominated jointly by the local authorities whose areas
coincide with, or include the whole or any part of, the integrated care
board’s area.

1.8.3

The constitution must set out the process for nominating the ordinary members
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) .

1.8.4

A person participating in the process for nominating the ordinary members
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  must have regard to any guidance published by
NHS England in relation to the selection of candidates.

1.8.5

The descriptions of trusts or other persons that may be prescribed for the
purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)(a)  or  (b)  may, in particular, be framed by
reference to the nature of the services that they provide or the proportion of
their services that are provided within the integrated care board’s area.

1.8.6

The chair must exercise the approval function mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(b) with a view to ensuring that at least one of the ordinary members has
knowledge and experience in connection with services relating to the
prevention, diagnosis and treatment of mental illness.

1.8.7

In this paragraph “ local authority ” has the meaning given by section 2B(5).

########### Further provision in connection with membership

1.9

The constitution may make further provision in connection with the membership
of the integrated care board, including provision about—

1.9.a

how members are to be appointed;

1.9.b

qualification and disqualification for membership;

1.9.c

the tenure of members (including the circumstances in which a member ceases to
hold office or may be removed or suspended from office);

1.9.d

eligibility for re-appointment;

1.9.e

terms of appointment (including provision about the remuneration or allowances
of the chair and ordinary members);

1.9.f

the validation of proceedings in the event of a vacancy or defect in an
appointment.

1.10

1.10.1

The constitution of an integrated care board must comply with any requirements
in connection with membership that are imposed by regulations.

1.10.2

The regulations may impose requirements in connection with any provision that
may be included in an integrated care board’s constitution by virtue of
paragraphs  3  to  9 .

########### Arrangements for discharging functions

1.11

1.11.1

The constitution must specify arrangements for the exercise of the integrated
care board’s functions (including its functions in determining the terms and
conditions of its employees).

1.11.2

The arrangements may include provision—

1.11.2.a

for the appointment of committees or sub-committees of the integrated care
board, and

1.11.2.b

for any such committees to consist of or include persons other than members or
employees of the integrated care board.

1.11.3

The arrangements may include provision for any functions of the integrated
care board to be exercised on its behalf by—

1.11.3.a

any of its members or employees;

1.11.3.b

a committee or sub-committee of the board.

1.11.4

If the constitution includes provision under this paragraph allowing
committees or sub-committees to exercise commissioning functions, the
constitution must—

1.11.4.a

provide for the members of any such committee or sub-committee to be approved
or appointed by the chair of the integrated care board, and

1.11.4.b

prohibit the chair from approving or appointing someone as a member of any
such committee or sub-committee (“the candidate”) if the chair considers that
the appointment could reasonably be regarded as undermining the independence
of the health service because of the candidate’s involvement with the private
healthcare sector or otherwise.

1.11.5

In sub-paragraph (4) “ commissioning functions ” means the functions of an
integrated care board in arranging for the provision of services as part of
the health service.

1.12

1.12.1

The constitution must specify the procedure to be followed by the integrated
care board in making decisions.

1.12.2

The constitution must also specify the arrangements to be made by the
integrated care board for securing that there is transparency about the
decisions of the board and the manner in which they are made.

########### Arrangements for conflicts of interests

1.13

The constitution must include—

1.13.a

provision about the arrangements to be made by the integrated care board for
discharging its functions under section  14Z30 (1)  to (4), and

1.13.b

a statement of the principles to be followed by the board in implementing
those arrangements.

########### Arrangements for public involvement

1.14

The constitution must include—

1.14.a

provision about the arrangements to be made by the integrated care board for
discharging its functions under section  14Z45 (2) , and

1.14.b

a statement of the principles to be followed by the board in implementing
those arrangements.

########### Variation of constitution

1.15

1.15.1

The constitution must include a power to vary the constitution in accordance
with a procedure set out there.

1.15.2

The provision made by the constitution in accordance with sub-paragraph (1)
must—

1.15.2.a

include power for NHS England to vary the constitution on its own initiative,
and

1.15.2.b

require NHS England’s approval to be obtained before any other variation is
made.

########### Further provision

1.16

In addition to the provision authorised or required to be included under this
Part of this Schedule, the constitution may make further provision.

########## Further provision about integrated care boards

########### Status

1.17

1.17.1

An integrated care board is a body corporate.

1.17.2

An integrated care board is not to be regarded—

1.17.2.a

as a servant or agent of the Crown, or

1.17.2.b

as enjoying any status, privilege or immunity of the Crown.

1.17.3

An integrated care board’s property is not to be regarded as property of, or
property held on behalf of, the Crown.

########### Staff

1.18

1.18.1

An integrated care board may appoint employees.

1.18.2

Employees of an integrated care board are to be paid such remuneration and
allowances as the board may determine.

1.18.3

Employees of an integrated care board are to be appointed on such other terms
and conditions as the board may determine.

1.18.4

An integrated care board may pay or make provision for the payment of such
pensions, allowances or gratuities as it may determine to or in respect of any
person who is or has been an employee of the board.

1.19

1.19.1

An integrated care board may make arrangements for a person to be seconded to
the board to serve as a member of the board’s staff.

1.19.2

A period of secondment to an integrated care board does not affect the
continuity of a person’s employment with the employer from whose service the
person is seconded.

1.19.3

In paragraphs  11  and  18  a reference to an employee of an integrated care
board includes a person seconded to the board.

1.19.4

In paragraph  7(2)  the reference to an employee of an integrated care board
includes any of the following seconded to the board—

1.19.4.a

a person employed in the civil service of the State, or

1.19.4.b

a person employed by—

1.19.4.b.i

NHS England,

1.19.4.b.ii

an NHS trust established under section 25,

1.19.4.b.iii

an NHS foundation trust,

1.19.4.b.iv

a Special Health Authority performing functions only or mainly in respect of
England,

1.19.4.b.v

the Care Quality Commission,

1.19.4.b.vi

the Health and Social Care Information Centre,

1.19.4.b.vii

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,

1.19.4.b.viii

the Human Tissue Authority,

1.19.4.b.ix

the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Authority, or

1.19.4.b.x

NICE.

1.19.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this paragraph so as to
provide that other references in this Act to an employee of an integrated care
board include persons, or persons of a prescribed description, seconded to the
board.

########### Additional powers in respect of payment of allowances

1.20

An integrated care board may pay such allowances as it considers appropriate
to a member of a committee or sub-committee of the integrated care board who
is not a member of the board.

########### Externally financed development agreements

1.21

1.21.1

The powers of an integrated care board include power to enter into externally
financed development agreements.

1.21.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, an agreement is an externally financed
development agreement if it is certified as such in writing by the Secretary
of State.

1.21.3

The Secretary of State may give a certificate under this paragraph if—

1.21.3.a

in the Secretary of State’s opinion the purpose or main purpose of the
agreement is the provision of services or facilities in connection with the
exercise by an integrated care board of any of its functions, and

1.21.3.b

a person proposes to make a loan to, or provide any other form of finance for,
another party in connection with the agreement.

1.21.4

If an integrated care board enters into an externally financed development
agreement it may also, in connection with that agreement, enter into an
agreement with a person who falls within sub-paragraph (3)(b) in relation to
the externally financed development agreement.

1.21.5

In sub-paragraph (3)(b) “ another party ” means any party to the agreement
other than the integrated care board.

1.21.6

The fact that an agreement made by an integrated care board has not been
certified under this paragraph does not affect its validity.

########### Accounts and audits

1.22

1.22.1

An integrated care board must keep proper accounts and proper records in
relation to the accounts.

1.22.2

An integrated care board must prepare annual accounts in respect of each
financial year.

1.22.3

NHS England may, with the approval of the Secretary of State, direct an
integrated care board to prepare accounts in respect of such period or periods
as may be specified in the direction.

1.22.4

NHS England may, with the approval of the Secretary of State, give directions
to an integrated care board as to—

1.22.4.a

the methods and principles according to which any accounts under this
paragraph must be prepared, and

1.22.4.b

the form and content of any accounts prepared under this paragraph.

1.22.5

For the audit of the annual accounts, see the Local Audit and Accountability
Act 2014 (and, in particular, section 4 of that Act).

1.22.6

Accounts prepared under sub-paragraph  (3)  are also to be audited under that
Act if NHS England so directs.

1.22.7

The Comptroller and Auditor General may examine—

1.22.7.a

the annual accounts and any records relating to them, and

1.22.7.b

any report on them by the auditor or auditors.

1.22.8

An integrated care board must send any audited accounts prepared under this
paragraph to NHS England by the date specified in a direction by NHS England.

1.22.9

NHS England may direct an integrated care board to send it any unaudited
accounts prepared under this paragraph by the date specified in a direction by
NHS England.

########### Incidental powers

1.23

The power conferred on an integrated care board by section 2 includes, in
particular, power to—

1.23.a

enter into agreements,

1.23.b

acquire and dispose of property, and

1.23.c

accept gifts (including property to be held on trust for the purposes of the
integrated care board).

########### Seal and evidence

1.24

1.24.1

The application of an integrated care board’s seal must be authenticated by
the signature of any person who has been authorised (generally or specially)
for that purpose.

1.24.2

A document purporting to be duly executed under an integrated care board’s
seal or to be signed on its behalf must be received in evidence and, unless
the contrary is proven, taken to be so executed or signed.

2

In section 272 of that Act (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in
subsection (6), after paragraph  (d)  (inserted by section 17 of this Act),
insert—

2.e

regulations under paragraph  19(5)  of Schedule 1B.

Conferral of primary care functions on integrated care boards etc

Section 22

##### Conferral of functions etc

###### Preliminary

1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

###### Power to require NHS England to continue to exercise certain primary care functions

2

In section 3B (Secretary of State’s power to require NHS England to commission
services), in subsection (1)—

2.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

2.a.za

primary medical services of a prescribed description;

;

2.b

after paragraph (a), insert—

2.b.aa

primary ophthalmic services of a prescribed description;

.

###### Medical services

3

For section 83 and the italic heading before it substitute—

########## Meaning of primary medical services

########### Primary medical services for purposes of this Act

3.82A

3.82A.1

Regulations may provide that services of a prescribed description must, or
must not, be regarded as primary medical services for the purposes of this
Act.

3.82A.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular, describe services by
reference to the manner or circumstances in which they are provided.

########## Duty of integrated care boards to arrange primary medical services

########### Duty of integrated care boards to arrange primary medical services

3.82B

3.82B.1

Each integrated care board must exercise its powers so as to secure the
provision of primary medical services to such extent as it considers necessary
to meet the reasonable requirements of the persons for whom it has
responsibility.

3.82B.2

For the purposes of this section an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

3.82B.2.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

3.82B.2.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed service).

########## General functions

########### General power to make arrangements

3.83

3.83.1

An integrated care board may make such arrangements for the provision of
primary medical services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of
discharging its functions under section 82B (and may, in particular, make
contractual arrangements with any person).

3.83.2

NHS England may make such arrangements for the provision of primary medical
services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of discharging any
functions under section 3B(1) (and may, in particular, make contractual
arrangements with any person).

3.83.3

The arrangements that may be made under this section include—

3.83.3.a

in the case of an integrated care board, arrangements for the performance of a
service outside its area (whether or not in England);

3.83.3.b

in the case of NHS England, arrangements for the performance of a service
outside England.

3.83.4

Arrangements under this section may confer discretions on a person with whom
they are made in relation to anything to be provided under the arrangements.

3.83.5

The powers under this section are in addition to the powers conferred by
sections 84 and 92.

########### Publication of information

3.83A

Each integrated care board and NHS England must publish information about such
matters as may be prescribed in relation to the primary medical services
provided under this Act.

4

4.1

Section 84 (general medical services contracts: introductory) is amended as
follows.

4.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or
NHS England” .

4.3

In subsection (3) for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or
NHS England (as the case may be)” .

4.4

For subsection (4) substitute—

4.4.4

The services to be provided under a general medical services contract may
include services which are not primary medical services.

4.4.4A

The services to be provided under a general medical services contract may
include—

4.4.4A.a

in the case of a contract entered into by an integrated care board, services
to be performed outside its area (whether or not in England);

4.4.4A.b

in the case of a contract entered into by NHS England, services to be
performed outside England.

4.4.4B

A general medical services contract may confer discretions on a person with
whom it is made in relation to anything to be provided under the contract.

4.5

In subsection (5), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or
NHS England” .

5

In section 86 (persons eligible to enter into GMS contracts), in subsection
(1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or NHS England” .

6

In section 87 (GMS contracts: payments), in subsection (3)(d), for “the Board”
substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

7

7.1

Section 89 (GMS contracts: other required terms) is amended as follows.

7.2

Omit subsections (1A) to (1E).

7.3

In subsection (4)(a), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or
NHS England” .

8

8.1

Section 91 (persons performing primary medical services) is amended as
follows.

8.2

In subsection (1), for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“an integrated care board or NHS England” .

8.3

In subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

8.3.b

an integrated care board or NHS England is responsible for a primary medical
service if it secures its provision under or by virtue of any enactment.

9

9.1

Section 92 (arrangements for the provision of primary medical services) is
amended as follows.

9.2

In the heading, for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS
England” .

9.3

For subsection (1), substitute—

9.3.1

An integrated care board or NHS England may make agreements, other than
arrangements pursuant to section 83 or general medical services contracts,
under which primary medical services are provided.

9.4

After subsection (5) insert—

9.4.5A

An agreement may confer discretions on a person with whom it is made in
relation to anything to be provided under the agreement.

10

In section 93 (persons with whom agreements may be made under section 92), in
subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or NHS
England” .

11

11.1

Section 94 (regulations about section 92 arrangements) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (2), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or
NHS England” .

11.3

In section (3), for paragraph (ca) substitute—

11.3.ca

provide that section 92 arrangements made by an integrated care board may be
made in relation to services to be performed outside its area (whether or not
in England),

11.3.cb

provide that section 92 arrangements made by NHS England may be made in
relation to services to be performed outside England,

.

11.4

Omit subsections (3A) to (3E).

11.5

In subsection (6), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or
NHS England” .

11.6

In subsection (7), omit “to” in the first place it occurs.

12

12.1

Section 96 (assistance and support: primary medical services) is amended as
follows.

12.2

In subsection (1)—

12.2.a

for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

12.2.b

in paragraph (za), for “83(2)” substitute  “83” .

12.3

In subsection (2)—

12.3.a

for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “an integrated care
board” ;

12.3.b

for “the Board”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “the integrated
care board” .

13

13.1

Section 97 (Local Medical Committees) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board may recognise a committee formed for an
area, which it is satisfied” substitute  “An integrated care board may
recognise a committee formed for an area that includes the whole or part of
the integrated care board’s area if it is satisfied that the committee” .

13.3

In subsection (3)(b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board”
.

13.4

In subsection (6), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

13.5

In subsection (10)—

13.5.a

for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

13.5.b

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care
board” .

14

For section 98A substitute—

########## Delegation of Secretary of State’s functions to NHS England

14.98A

14.98A.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to exercise any of the Secretary
of State’s functions relating to the provision of primary medical services.

14.98A.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to any function of the Secretary of State of
making an order or regulations.

########## NHS England’s power to direct integrated care boards

14.98B

NHS England may give directions to an integrated care board about the exercise
by it of any of its functions under this Part.

###### Dental services

15

For section 99 and the italic heading before it substitute—

########## Meaning of primary dental services

########### Primary dental services for purposes of this Act

15.98C

15.98C.1

Regulations may provide that services of a prescribed description must, or
must not, be regarded as primary dental services for the purposes of this Act.

15.98C.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular, describe services by
reference to the manner or circumstances in which they are provided.

########## Duty of integrated care boards to arrange primary dental services

########### Duty of integrated care boards to arrange primary dental services

15.99

15.99.1

Each integrated care board must exercise its powers so as to secure the
provision of primary dental services to such extent as it considers necessary
to meet the reasonable requirements of the people for whom it has
responsibility.

15.99.2

For the purposes of this section an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

15.99.2.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

15.99.2.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed service).

########## General functions

########### General power to make arrangements

15.99A

15.99A.1

An integrated care board may make such arrangements for the provision of
primary dental services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of
discharging its functions under section  99  (and may, in particular, make
contractual arrangements with any person).

15.99A.2

NHS England may make such arrangements for the provision of primary dental
services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of discharging any
functions under section 3B(1) (and may, in particular, make contractual
arrangements with any person).

15.99A.3

The arrangements that may be made under this section include—

15.99A.3.a

in the case of an integrated care board, arrangements for the performance of a
service outside its area (whether or not in England);

15.99A.3.b

in the case of NHS England, arrangements for the performance of a service
outside England.

15.99A.4

The powers in this section are in addition to the powers conferred by sections
100 and 107.

########### Publication of information

15.99B

Each integrated care board and NHS England must publish information about such
matters as may be prescribed in relation to the primary dental services
provided under this Act.

16

16.1

Section 100 (general dental services contracts: introductory) is amended as
follows.

16.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or
NHS England” .

16.3

In subsection (3)—

16.3.a

for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or NHS England (as the
case may be)” ;

16.3.b

in paragraph (a) omit the words from “(which” to the end.

16.4

After subsection (3) insert—

16.4.3A

The services to be provided under a general dental services contract may
include services which are not primary dental services.

16.4.3B

The services to be provided under a general dental services contract may
include—

16.4.3B.a

in the case of a contract entered into by an integrated care board, services
to be performed outside its area (whether or not in England);

16.4.3B.b

in the case of a contract entered into by NHS England, services to be
performed outside England.

16.5

In subsection (4), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or
NHS England” .

17

In section 102 (persons eligible to enter into GDS contracts), in subsection
(1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or NHS England” .

18

In section 103 (GDS contracts: payments), in subsection (3)(d), for “the
Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

19

In section 104 (GDS contracts: other required terms), in subsection (3), for
“the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

20

20.1

Section 106 (persons performing primary dental services) is amended as
follows.

20.2

In subsection (1), for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“an integrated care board or NHS England” .

20.3

In subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

20.3.b

an integrated care board or NHS England is responsible for a primary dental
service if it secures its provision under or by virtue of any enactment.

21

21.1

Section 107 (arrangements for the provision of primary dental services) is
amended as follows.

21.2

In the heading, for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS
England” .

21.3

For subsection (1) substitute—

21.3.1

An integrated care board or NHS England may make agreements, other than
arrangements pursuant to section  99A  or general dental services contracts,
under which primary dental services are provided.

21.4

Omit subsection (6).

22

In section 108 (persons with whom agreements may be made under section 107),
in subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or
NHS England” .

23

23.1

Section 109 (regulations about section 107 arrangements) is amended as
follows.

23.2

In subsection (2), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or
NHS England” .

23.3

In section (3), for paragraph (ca) substitute—

23.3.ca

provide that section 107 arrangements made by an integrated care board may be
made in relation to services to be performed outside its area (whether or not
in England),

23.3.cb

provide that section 107 arrangements made by NHS England may be made in
relation to services to be performed outside England,

.

23.4

In subsection (6), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or
NHS England” .

23.5

In subsection (7), omit “to” in the first place it occurs.

24

24.1

Section 112 (assistance and support: primary dental services) is amended as
follows.

24.2

In subsection (1)—

24.2.a

for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

24.2.b

before paragraph (a) insert—

24.2.b.za

primary dental services pursuant to section  99A ,

.

24.3

In subsection (2)—

24.3.a

for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “an integrated care
board” ;

24.3.b

for “the Board”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “the integrated
care board” .

25

25.1

Section 113 (Local Dental Committees) is amended as follows.

25.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board may recognise a committee formed for an
area, which it is satisfied” substitute  “An integrated care board may
recognise a committee formed for an area that includes the whole or part of
the integrated care board’s area if it is satisfied that the committee” .

25.3

In subsection (3)—

25.3.a

in paragraph (a), omit sub-paragraph (i);

25.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board” .

25.4

In subsection (6), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

25.5

In subsection (10)—

25.5.a

for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

25.5.b

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care
board” .

26

For section 114A substitute—

########## Delegation of Secretary of State’s functions to NHS England

26.114A

26.114A.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to exercise any of the Secretary
of State’s functions relating to the provision of primary dental services.

26.114A.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to any function of the Secretary of State of
making an order or regulations.

########## NHS England’s power to direct integrated care boards

26.114B

NHS England may give directions to an integrated care board about the exercise
by it of any of its functions under this Part.

###### Ophthalmic services

27

Before section 115 (and the italic heading before it) insert—

########## Meaning of primary ophthalmic services

########### Primary ophthalmic services for purposes of this Act

27.114C

27.114C.1

Regulations may provide that services of a prescribed description must, or
must not, be regarded as primary ophthalmic services for the purposes of this
Act (but these regulations may not affect the duty in section 115(1)(a)).

27.114C.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular, describe services by
reference to the manner or circumstances in which they are provided.

28

In the italic heading before section 115, for “the Board” substitute
“integrated care boards” .

29

29.1

Section 115 (primary ophthalmic services) is amended as follows.

29.2

For the heading substitute  “Duty of integrated care boards to arrange primary
ophthalmic services” .

29.3

For subsections (1) and (1A) substitute—

29.3.1

Each integrated care board must exercise its powers so as to secure the
provision of the following primary ophthalmic services to such extent as it
considers necessary to meet the reasonable requirements of the people for whom
it has responsibility—

29.3.1.a

the sight-testing service mentioned in subsection (2),

29.3.1.b

such other primary ophthalmic services as may be prescribed, and

29.3.1.c

to the extent that it considers necessary to meet all reasonable requirements,
any further primary ophthalmic services.

29.3.1A

For the purposes of this section an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

29.3.1A.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

29.3.1A.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed service).

29.4

Omit subsections (4), (4A), (5), (7) and (8).

30

After section 116 insert—

########## General functions

########### General powers to make arrangements

30.116A

30.116A.1

An integrated care board may make such arrangements for the provision of
primary ophthalmic services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of
discharging its functions under section 115 (and may, in particular, make
contractual arrangements with any person).

30.116A.2

NHS England may make such arrangements for the provision of primary ophthalmic
services as it considers appropriate for the purpose of discharging any
functions under section 3B (and may, in particular, make contractual
arrangements with any person).

30.116A.3

The arrangements that may be made under this section include—

30.116A.3.a

in the case of an integrated care board, arrangements for the performance of a
service outside its area (whether or not in England);

30.116A.3.b

in the case of NHS England, arrangements for the performance of a service
outside England.

30.116A.4

The powers in this section are in addition to the power conferred by section
117.

########### Publication of information

30.116B

Each integrated care board and NHS England must publish information about such
matters as may be prescribed in relation to the primary ophthalmic services
provided under this Act.

31

31.1

Section 117 (general ophthalmic services contracts: introductory) is amended
as follows.

31.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or
NHS England” .

31.3

In subsection (3) for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or
NHS England (as the case may be)” .

31.4

For subsection (4) substitute—

31.4.4

The services to be provided under a general ophthalmic services contract may
include services which are not primary ophthalmic services.

31.4.4A

The services to be provided under a general ophthalmic services contract may
include—

31.4.4A.a

in the case of a contract entered into by an integrated care board, services
to be performed outside its area (whether or not in England);

31.4.4A.b

in the case of a contract entered into by NHS England, services to be
performed outside England.

31.5

In subsection (5), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board or
NHS England” .

32

In section 118 (persons eligible to enter into GOS contracts), in subsection
(1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board or NHS England” .

33

In section 119 (exclusion of contractors), in subsection (1), for “the Board”
substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

34

In section 120 (GOS contracts: payments), in subsection (3)(d), for “the
Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

35

In section 121 (GOS contracts: other required terms), in subsection (3)(a),
for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board or NHS England” .

36

36.1

Section 123 (persons performing primary ophthalmic services) is amended as
follows.

36.2

In subsection (1), for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute
“an integrated care board or NHS England” .

36.3

In subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

36.3.b

an integrated care board or NHS England is responsible for a primary
ophthalmic service if it secures its provision under or by virtue of any
enactment.

37

37.1

Section 124 (assistance and support: primary ophthalmic services) is amended
as follows.

37.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” .

37.3

In subsection (2)—

37.3.a

for “the Board”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “an integrated care
board” ;

37.3.b

for “the Board”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “the integrated
care board” .

38

38.1

Section 125 (Local Optical Committees) is amended as follows.

38.2

In subsection (1), for “The Board may recognise a committee formed for an
area, which it is satisfied” substitute  “An integrated care board may
recognise a committee formed for an area that includes the whole or part of
the integrated care board’s area if it is satisfied that the committee” .

38.3

In subsection (3)(b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care board”
.

38.4

In subsection (7), for “the Board” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

38.5

In subsection (10)—

38.5.a

for “The Board” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

38.5.b

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “the Board” substitute  “the integrated care
board” .

39

For section 125A substitute—

########## Delegation of Secretary of State’s functions to NHS England

39.125A

39.125A.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to exercise any of the Secretary
of State’s functions relating to the provision of primary ophthalmic services.

39.125A.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to any function of the Secretary of State of
making an order or regulations.

########## NHS England’s power to direct integrated care boards

39.125B

NHS England may give directions to an integrated care board about the exercise
by it of any of its functions under this Part.

###### Pharmaceutical services

40

For section 168A substitute—

########## Delegation of Secretary of State’s functions to NHS England

40.168A

40.168A.1

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England to exercise any of the Secretary
of State’s functions relating to services that may be provided as
pharmaceutical services, or as local pharmaceutical services, under this Part.

40.168A.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to any function of the Secretary of State of
making an order or regulations.

##### Consequential amendments

###### Dentists Act 1984

41

The Dentists Act 1984 is amended as follows.

42

In section 40 (definition of business of dentistry), in subsection (2)(aa),
for “a contract under section 100 of the National Health Service Act 2006”
substitute  “arrangements under section  99A  of the National Health Service
Act 2006 or a contract under section 100 of that Act” .

43

In section 53 (interpretation), in subsection (3)(a)(i), for “92 or 107”
substitute  “ 83 , 92,  99A  or 107” .

###### Access to Health Records Act 1990

44

In section 1 of the Access to Health Records Act 1990 (“Health record” and
related expressions) as it has effect under the law of England and Wales, in
subsection (2)—

44.a

in paragraph (a)—

44.a.i

before “or a Local Health Board” insert  “, an integrated care board” ;

44.a.ii

for “the Board” substitute  “or the integrated care board or Local Health
Board” ;

44.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

44.b.aza

in the case of a record made by a health professional performing such services
under a contract made with NHS England or an integrated care board under
section 100 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (general dental services
contracts), the person or body who entered into the contract with NHS England
or the integrated care board (or, in a case where more than one person so
entered into the contract, any such person);

;

44.c

in paragraph (aa)—

44.c.i

for “92 or 107” substitute  “ 83 , 92,  99A  or 107” ;

44.c.ii

before “or a Local Health Board” insert  “, an integrated care board” ;

44.c.iii

for “the Board” substitute  “or the integrated care board or Local Health
Board” .

###### Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992

45

In section 279 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act
1992 (health service practitioners), for subsection (2) substitute—

45.2

In this Act “worker” also includes an individual regarded in their capacity as
one who works or normally works or seeks to work as a person performing
primary medical services, primary dental services or primary ophthalmic
services—

45.2.a

in accordance with arrangements made by NHS England or an integrated care
board under section  83 , 92,  99A , 107 or  116A  of the National Health
Service Act 2006;

45.2.b

in accordance with arrangements made by a Local Health Board under section 50
or 64 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;

45.2.c

under a contract under section 84, 100 or 117 of the National Health Service
Act 2006 entered into by the individual with NHS England or an integrated care
board; or

45.2.d

under a contract under section 42 or 57 of the National Health Service (Wales)
Act 2006 entered into by the individual with a Local Health Board,

and “ employer ” in relation to such an individual, regarded in that capacity,
means that body.

###### Health Service Commissioners Act 1993

46

In section 2A of the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993 (persons subject to
investigation), in subsection (1)(c), for “92 or 107” substitute  “ 83 , 92,
99A  or 107” .

###### Freedom of Information Act 2000

47

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (NHS in England
and Wales), in paragraph 43A(a), for “92 or 107” substitute  “ 83 , 92,  99A ,
107 or  116A ” .

###### Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003

48

In section 150 of the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards)
Act 2003 (liability to pay NHS charges), in subsection (7)(d), for “99”
substitute  “99A” .

###### Health Act 2006

49

In Schedule 8 to the Health Act 2006 (minor and consequential amendments),
omit paragraph 30 and the italic heading above it.

###### National Health Service Act 2006

50

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

51

In section 80 (supply of goods and services by the Secretary of State and NHS
bodies), in subsections (5) and (7), before “may” insert  “or an integrated
care board” .

52

52.1

Section 259 (sale of medical practices) is amended as follows.

52.2

In subsection (4)(e), for “83(2)” substitute  “ 83 ” .

52.3

In subsection (4A), for “83(2)”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “
83 ” .

53

In section 276 (index of defined expressions)—

53.a

in the entry relating to “primary dental services” for “section  99 ”
substitute  “section  98C ” ;

53.b

in the entry relating to “primary medical services” for “section 83”
substitute  “section  82A ” ;

53.c

in the entry relating to “primary ophthalmic services” for “section 115”
substitute  “section  114C ” .

54

In Schedule 4 (NHS trusts), for paragraph 24 and the italic heading before it
substitute—

########## Provision of services under section 

54.24

An NHS trust may provide services—

54.24.a

under arrangements made under section  83  (primary medical services);

54.24.b

under an agreement made under section 92 (primary medical services), and may
do so as a member of a qualifying body (within the meaning given by section
93);

54.24.c

under arrangements made under section  99A  (primary dental services);

54.24.d

under an agreement made under section 107 (primary dental services), and may
do so as a member of a qualifying body (within the meaning given by section
108).

###### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006

55

55.1

Section 51 (persons with whom agreement may be made under section 50 for the
provision of primary medical services) is amended as follows.

55.2

In subsection (1)—

55.2.a

in paragraph (d)(ii) after “section 64 arrangements,” insert  “section  83
arrangements,” ;

55.2.b

in paragraph (e) after “a section 64 employee,” insert  “a section  83
employee,” .

55.3

In subsection (3)—

55.3.a

after the definition of “section 17C employee” insert—

“section  83  arrangements” means arrangements for the provision of services
made under section  83  of the National Health Service Act 2006,

;

55.3.b

after the definition of “section 107 arrangements” insert—

“section  83  employee” means an individual who, in connection with the
provision of services in accordance with section  83  arrangements, is
employed by a person providing or performing those services,

.

56

56.1

Section 65 (persons with whom agreement may be made under section 64 for the
provision of primary dental services) is amended as follows.

56.2

In subsection (1)—

56.2.a

in paragraph (d)(ii) after “section 92 arrangements,” insert  “section  99A
arrangements,” ;

56.2.b

in paragraph (e) after “a section 92 employee,” insert  “a section  99A
employee,” .

56.3

In subsection (3)—

56.3.a

after the definition of “section 92 arrangements” insert—

“section  99A  arrangements” means arrangements for the provision of services
made under section  99A  of the National Health Service Act 2006,

;

56.3.b

after the definition of “section 92 employee” insert—

“section  99A  employee” means an individual who, in connection with the
provision of services in accordance with section  99A  arrangements, is
employed by a person providing or performing those services,

.

###### Health Act 2009

57

In section 2 of the Health Act 2009 (duty to have regard to NHS constitution),
in subsection (6)—

57.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

57.a.a

section  83  (arrangements for provision of primary medical services);

;

57.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

57.b.ca

section  99A  (arrangements for provision of primary dental services);

;

57.c

after paragraph (e) insert—

57.c.ea

section  116A  (arrangements for provision of primary ophthalmic services);

.

###### Domestic Abuse Act 2021

58

In section 80 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (prohibition on charging for the
provision of medical evidence of domestic abuse), in subsection (5)(a), for
sub-paragraph (ii) substitute—

58.ii

any arrangements made under section  83  of that Act;

.

Integrated care system: minor and consequential amendments

Section 32

##### Reserve and Auxiliary Forces (Protection of Civil Interests) Act 1951

1

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Reserve and Auxiliary Forces (Protection of
Civil Interests) Act 1951 (capacities in respect of which payments under Part
5 of the Act may be made, and paying authorities), in paragraph 15—

1.a

in the first column (headed “capacity”), for “, a clinical commissioning
group,” substitute  “, an integrated care board,” ;

1.b

in the second column (headed “paying authority”), for “, clinical
commissioning group,” substitute  “, integrated care board,” .

##### Public Records Act 1958

2

In Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act 1958 (bodies the records of which are
public records), in Part 1 of the Table at the end of paragraph 3—

2.a

for “, clinical commissioning groups,” substitute  “, integrated care boards,”
;

2.b

for “, a clinical commissioning group”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“, an integrated care board” ;

2.c

for “paragraph 20 of Schedule 1A” substitute  “paragraph  23  of Schedule 1B”
.

##### Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960

3

In the Schedule to the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960 (public
authorities to which that Act applies) in paragraph 1, after paragraph (o)
insert—

3.p

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Leasehold Reform Act 1967

4

4.1

Section 28 of the Leasehold Reform Act 1967 (land required for public
purposes) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (5)(d), for “, any clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “,
any integrated care board,” .

4.3

In subsection (6)(c), for “, a clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “,
an integrated care board,” .

##### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967

5

In Schedule 3 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (matters not subject
to investigation), in paragraph 8(1) and (2), for “a clinical commissioning
group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

##### Health Services and Public Health Act 1968

6

The Health Services and Public Health Act 1968 is amended as follows.

7

In section 63 (provision of instruction for officers of hospital authorities
etc), in subsections (1)(a) and (2)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

8

In section 64 (financial assistance to certain voluntary organisations), in
subsection (3)(b), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

##### Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969

9

In section 3 of the Employers’ Liability (Compulsory Insurance) Act 1969
(employers exempted from insurance), in subsection (2)(a), for “, a clinical
commissioning group established under section 14D” substitute  “, an
integrated care board established under section  14Z25 ” .

##### Local Authority Social Services Act 1970

10

In Schedule 1 to the Local Authority Social Services Act 1970 (social services
functions) in the entry relating to the Children Act 1989, in the column
headed “Nature of functions”, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” .

##### Local Government Act 1972

11

11.1

Section 113 of the Local Government Act 1972 (placing of staff of local
authorities at disposal of certain persons) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1A), for “clinical commissioning group,”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “integrated care board,” .

11.3

In subsection (4), for ““ clinical commissioning group ” means a body
established under section 14D” substitute  ““ integrated care board ” means a
body established under section  14Z25 ” .

##### Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974

12

In section 60 of the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 (supplementary
provision about the Employment Medical Advisory Service), in subsection (1),
for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

##### National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978

13

In section 17A (NHS contracts), in subsection (2), for paragraph (jb)
substitute—

13.jb

integrated care boards established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Mental Health Act 1983

14

The Mental Health Act 1983 is amended as follows.

15

In section 39 (information as to hospitals), in subsection (1), for “clinical
commissioning group or”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “integrated care
board or” .

16

In section 117 (after-care), in subsections (2), (2D), (2E), (2F) and (3), for
“clinical commissioning group”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“integrated care board” .

17

In section 134 (correspondence of patients), in subsection (3)(e), for “, a
clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “, an integrated care board,” .

18

In section 139 (protection for acts done in pursuance of this Act), in
subsection (4), for “, a clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “, an
integrated care board,” .

19

In section 140 (notification of hospitals having arrangements for special
cases) for “clinical commissioning group”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“integrated care board” .

##### Acquisition of Land Act 1981

20

The Acquisition of Land Act 1981 is amended as follows.

21

In section 16 (statutory undertakers’ land excluded from compulsory purchase),
in subsection (3), for paragraph (ab) substitute—

21.ab

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

22

In section 17 (local authority and statutory undertakers’ land), in subsection
(4), in the definition of “statutory undertakers” for paragraph (af)
substitute—

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006,

.

##### Disabled Persons (Services, Consultation and Representation) Act 1986

23

The Disabled Persons (Services, Consultation and Representation) Act 1986 is
amended as follows.

24

24.1

Section 2 (rights of authorised representatives of disabled persons) is
amended as follows.

24.2

In subsection (5)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

24.3

In subsection (9), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “health authority”,
for “, a clinical commissioning group or” substitute  “, an integrated care
board or” .

25

25.1

Section 7 (persons discharged from hospital) is amended as follows.

25.2

In subsection (3A)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

25.3

In subsection (9), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “health authority”,
for “a clinical commissioning group”, substitute  “an integrated care board” .

##### Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988

26

In section 48 of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (material
communicated to the Crown in the course of public business), in subsection
(6), for “, a clinical commissioning group established under section 14D of
the National Health Service Act 2006,” substitute  “, an integrated care board
established under section  14Z25  of the National Health Service Act 2006,” .

##### Children Act 1989

27

The Children Act 1989 is amended as follows.

28

In section 21 (provision for accommodation for children in police protection
or detention or on remand, etc), in subsection (3), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

29

In section 24 (persons qualifying for advice and assistance), in subsection
(2)(d)(ii), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated
care board” .

30

In section 24C (information), in subsection (2)(c), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

31

In section 27 (co-operation between authorities), in subsection (3)(d), for
“clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “integrated care board,” .

32

In section 29 (recoupment of cost of providing services etc), in subsection
(8)(c), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care
board” .

33

In section 47 (local authority’s duty to investigate), in subsection (11)(d),
for “clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “integrated care board,” .

34

In section 80 (inspection of children’s homes etc by persons authorised by the
Appropriate National Authority), in subsections (1)(d) and (5)(ea), for “a
clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

35

In section 85 (children accommodated by health authorities and local education
authorities), in subsection (2ZA)—

35.a

in paragraph (b), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” ;

35.b

in the words after paragraph (b), for “the clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “the integrated care board” .

36

In section 105 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

36.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

36.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section  14Z25  of
the National Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990

37

In section 47 of the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990
(assessment of needs for community care services), in subsection (3), in the
words after paragraph (b) for “clinical commissioning group”, in both places
it occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” .

##### London Local Authorities Act 1991

38

In section 4 of the London Local Authorities Act 1991 (interpretation of Part
2), in paragraph (d) of the definition of “establishment for special
treatment”, for “a clinical commissioning group under the National Health
Service Act 2006 (including by virtue of section 7A of that Act)” substitute
“an integrated care board under the National Health Service Act 2006” .

##### Health Service Commissioners Act 1993

39

In section 2 of the Health Service Commissioners Act 1993 (the bodies subject
to investigation), in subsection (1), for paragraph (dd) substitute—

39.dd

integrated care boards,

.

##### Value Added Tax Act 1994

40

The Value Added Tax Act 1994 is amended as follows.

41

In section 41 (application to the Crown), in subsection (7), for paragraph (f)
substitute—

41.f

an integrated care board,

.

42

42.1

Schedule 8 (zero-rating) is amended as follows.

42.2

In Group 12, in Note (5H), for paragraph (ea) substitute—

42.2.ea

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

42.3

In Group 15, in Note (4), for paragraph (j) substitute—

42.3.j

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006.

##### Education Act 1996

43

The Education Act 1996 is amended as follows.

44

In section 322 (duty of certain bodies to help local authority), in
subsections (1), (3)(a) and (4), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

45

In section 332 (duty of Local Health Board, a Primary Care Trust or National
Health Service trust to notify parent etc), in subsection (1), for “a clinical
commissioning group,” substitute  “an integrated care board,” .

##### Employment Rights Act 1996

46

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

47

In section 49B (the health service: regulations prohibiting discrimination
because of protected disclosure), in subsection (7), for paragraph (b)
substitute—

47.b

an integrated care board;

.

48

In section 50 (right to time off for public duties), in subsection (8), for
paragraph (zb) substitute—

48.zb

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006,

.

49

In section 218 (change of employer), in subsection (10), for paragraph (zb)
substitute—

49.zb

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006,

.

##### Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996

50

In section 3 of the Housing Grants, Construction and Regeneration Act 1996
(ineligible applicants for grants), in subsection (2)(f), for “, a clinical
commissioning group,” substitute  “, an integrated care board,” .

##### Crime and Disorder Act 1998

51

The Crime and Disorder Act 1998 is amended as follows.

52

In section 5 (authorities responsible for crime and disorder strategies), in
subsection (1)(e), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

53

In section 38 (local provision of youth justice services), in subsection
(2)(b), for “, clinical commissioning group or” substitute  “, integrated care
board or” .

54

54.1

Section 39 (youth offending teams) is amended as follows.

54.2

In subsection (3)(b), for “, clinical commissioning group or” substitute  “,
integrated care board or” .

54.3

In subsection (5)(d), for “a clinical commissioning group or” substitute  “an
integrated care board or” .

55

In section 41 (the Youth Justice Board), in subsection (10), for “a clinical
commissioning group,” substitute  “an integrated care board,” .

56

In section 42 (supplementary provision), in subsection (3), for “a clinical
commissioning group,” substitute  “an integrated care board,” .

57

In section 115 (disclosure of information), in subsection (2), for paragraph
(fb) substitute—

57.fb

an integrated care board;

.

##### Greater London Authority Act 1999

58

In section 309E of the Greater London Authority Act 1999 (the Mayor’s health
inequalities strategy), in subsection (5), for paragraph (gc) substitute—

58.gc

any integrated care board (established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006) for an area wholly or partly in Greater London,

.

##### Health Act 1999

59

In section 61 of the Health Act 1999 (English and Scottish border provisions),
in subsections (2) and (5), for “clinical commissioning group”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” .

##### Freedom of Information Act 2000

60

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (NHS in England
and Wales), for paragraph 37B substitute—

60.37B

An integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006.

##### Local Government Act 2000

61

In section 9FF of the Local Government Act 2000 (reports and recommendations
of overview and scrutiny committees: duties of certain partner authorities),
in subsection (6), for paragraph (za) substitute—

61.za

an integrated care board,

.

##### Adoption and Children Act 2002

62

The Adoption and Children Act 2002 is amended as follows.

63

In section 4 (assessments etc for adoption support services), in subsection
(9), in the words after paragraph (b), for “clinical commissioning group,”
substitute  “integrated care board,” .

64

In section 8 (adoption support agencies), in subsection (2)(d), for “,
clinical commissioning group” substitute  “, integrated care board” .

##### International Development Act 2002

65

In Schedule 1 to the International Development Act 2002 (statutory bodies with
powers under section 9 of that Act)—

65.a

omit the entry for a clinical commissioning group;

65.b

before the entry for “A Health Board” insert—

An integrated care board

.

##### Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002

66

In section 133 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (power of
medical inspector to disclose information to health service bodies), in
subsection (4)(a), for sub-paragraph (ib) substitute—

66.ib

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006,

.

##### Criminal Justice Act 2003

67

In section 325 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (arrangements for assessing
etc risks posed by certain offenders), in subsection (6)(g), for “clinical
commissioning group or” substitute  “integrated care board or” .

##### Finance Act 2003

68

In section 67A of the Finance Act 2003 (acquisitions by certain health service
bodies), in subsection (1), for paragraph (b) substitute—

68.b

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003

69

The Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003 is
amended as follows.

70

In section 148 (interpretation of Part 2), in the definition of “English NHS
body”, for paragraph (cb) substitute—

an integrated care board;

.

71

In section 160 (provision of information), in subsection (1)(h)—

71.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

71.b

for “the clinical commissioning group” substitute  “the integrated care board”
.

72

In section 165 (power to apply provisions about recovery of charges to non-NHS
hospitals), in subsection (3)(b), for sub-paragraph (ib) substitute—

72.ib

an integrated care board,

.

##### Children Act 2004

73

The Children Act 2004 is amended as follows.

74

In section 10 (co-operation to improve wellbeing), in subsection (4)(db), for
“clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

75

In section 11 (arrangements to safeguard and promote welfare), in subsection
(1), for paragraph (bb) substitute—

75.bb

an integrated care board;

.

76

In section 16E (local arrangements for safeguarding and promoting welfare of
children), in subsection (3), in paragraph (b) of the definition of
“safeguarding partner” for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

77

In section 16J (combining safeguarding partner areas and delegating
functions), for subsection (4) substitute—

77.4

Where an integrated care board is a safeguarding partner for the same local
authority area as another integrated care board, the boards may arrange for
one of them to carry out functions under sections 16E to 16I on behalf of the
other.

78

In section 16P (combining child death review partner areas and delegating
functions), for subsection (4) substitute—

78.4

Where an integrated care board is a child death review partner for the same
local authority area as another integrated care board, the boards may arrange
for one of them to carry out functions under sections 16M to 16O on behalf of
the other.

79

In section 16Q (guidance and interpretation), in subsection (2)(b), for
“clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

##### Civil Contingencies Act 2004

80

80.1

Schedule 1 to the Civil Contingencies Act 2004 (lists of Category 1 and 2
responders) is amended as follows.

80.2

After paragraph 4A insert—

80.2.4B

An integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006.

80.3

Omit paragraph 29ZA.

##### Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004

81

In section 9 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004
(establishment and conduct of domestic homicide reviews), in the list in
subsection (4)(a), for the entry relating to clinical commissioning groups
substitute—

integrated care boards established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Mental Capacity Act 2005

82

82.1

Schedule AA1 to the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (deprivation of liberty:
authorisation of arrangements enabling care and treatment) is amended as
follows.

82.2

In paragraph 3—

82.2.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

82.2.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section  14Z25  of
the National Health Service Act 2006;”.

.

82.3

In paragraph 6(1)(d)—

82.3.a

in sub-paragraph (i), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” ;

82.3.b

in the words after sub-paragraph (ii), for “clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “integrated care board” .

82.4

In paragraph 11, for sub-paragraph (b) substitute—

82.4.b

an integrated care board;

.

82.5

In paragraph 14(1), for paragraph (b) substitute—

82.5.b

each integrated care board;

.

##### Armed Forces Act 2006

83

83.1

Section 343AA of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (due regard to principles: England)
(as inserted by section 8(3) of the Armed Forces Act 2021) is amended as
follows.

83.2

In subsection (3), for paragraph (h) substitute—

83.2.h

an integrated care board;

.

83.3

In subsection (8)—

83.3.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

83.3.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section 14Z25 of the
National Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Childcare Act 2006

84

In section 4 of the Childcare Act 2006 (duty of local authority and relevant
partners to work together), in subsection (1)(a), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

##### Emergency Workers (Obstruction) Act 2006

85

In section 1 of the Emergency Workers (Obstruction) Act 2006 (obstructing
emergency workers), in subsection (5)(a), for “a clinical commissioning
group,” substitute  “an integrated care board,” .

##### National Health Service Act 2006

86

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

87

In section 1H (NHS England and its general functions), in subsection (3)(b),
for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

88

88.1

Section 6 (performance of functions outside England) is amended as follows.

88.2

In subsection (1A), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

88.3

In subsection (2), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

89

89.1

Section 6E (regulations as to the exercise of functions) is amended as
follows.

89.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

89.3

In subsections (1) and (2), for “clinical commissioning groups”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “integrated care boards” .

89.4

In subsection (3)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

89.5

In subsections (4)(a) and (c), (5)(a) and (b) and (7), for “clinical
commissioning groups”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “integrated care
boards” .

89.6

In subsection (8), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

89.7

In subsection (10)(a) and (b), for “clinical commissioning groups”, in each
place it occurs, substitute  “integrated care boards” .

90

In section 9 (NHS contracts), in subsection (4), for paragraph (zb)
substitute—

90.zb

an integrated care board,

.

91

91.1

Section 12 (arrangements with other bodies) is amended as follows.

91.2

In subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

91.2.b

integrated care boards,

.

91.3

In subsection (4), for paragraph (ab) substitute—

91.3.ab

an integrated care board,

.

92

92.1

Section 12ZA (commissioning arrangements) is amended as follows.

92.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

92.3

In subsections (1), (3) and (4), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

92.4

In subsection (5), for paragraph (c) substitute—

92.4.c

an integrated care board,

.

92.5

In subsection (9), in the definition of “service provider”, for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

93

93.1

Section 12A (direct payments for health care) is amended as follows.

93.2

In subsections (1) and (2)(aa), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

93.3

In subsection (4)—

93.3.a

for “a clinical commissioning group”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“an integrated care board” ;

93.3.b

for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

94

In section 12B (regulations about direct payments), in subsections (2)(d),
(g), (h) and (j), (4) and (5)(a) and (b), for “a clinical commissioning
group”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “an integrated care board” .

95

In section 12D (arrangements with other bodies relating to direct payments),
in subsections (1) and (3), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” .

96

In section 13A (mandate), in subsection (6), for “clinical commissioning
group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

97

In section 13N (duty as to promoting integration), in subsection (3), for
“clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

98

In section 13R (information on safety of services provided by the health
service), in subsection (6), for “A clinical commissioning group” substitute
“An integrated care board” .

99

In section 13V (pooled funds), in subsection (1), for “clinical commissioning
groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

100

In Part 2, omit Chapter A2 (clinical commissioning groups).

101

In section 71 (schemes for meeting losses and liabilities etc of certain
health service bodies), in subsection (2), for paragraph (zb) substitute—

101.zb

integrated care boards,

.

102

In section 74 (supply of goods and services by local authorities), in
subsection (1)(a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

103

In section 76 (power of local authorities to make payments), in subsection
(1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care
board” .

104

104.1

Section 77 (care trusts) is amended as follows.

104.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (a), for “an NHS trust or a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board, an NHS trust” .

104.3

In subsection (10), for “NHS trust or clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board, NHS trust” .

104.4

In subsection (12), in the definition of “NHS functions”, for “NHS trust or
clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board, NHS
trust” .

105

105.1

In section 80 (supply of goods and services by the Secretary of State, the
Board and clinical commissioning groups) is amended as follows.

105.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

105.3

In subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

105.4

For subsection (3A) substitute—

105.4.3A

NHS England or an integrated care board may make available to persons falling
within subsection (1)—

105.4.3A.a

any facilities the provision of which is arranged by NHS England or (as the
case may be) the integrated care board in pursuance of its functions under
this Act;

105.4.3A.b

any facilities of NHS England or (as the case may be) the integrated care
board;

105.4.3A.c

the services of persons employed by NHS England or (as the case may be) the
integrated care board.

105.5

In subsection (4), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

105.6

For subsection (6A) substitute—

105.6.6A

NHS England and each integrated care board must make available to local
authorities—

105.6.6A.a

any services (other than the services of any person) or other facilities the
provision of which is arranged by NHS England or (as the case may be) the
integrated care board in pursuance of its functions under this Act;

105.6.6A.b

the services of persons employed by NHS England or (as the case may be) the
integrated care board;

105.6.6A.c

any facilities of NHS England or (as the case may be) the integrated care
board,

so far as is reasonably necessary and practicable to enable local authorities
to discharge their functions relating to social services, education and public
health.

105.7

In subsection (9)—

105.7.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

105.7.b

for “the clinical commissioning group” substitute  “the integrated care board
in the exercise of its functions” .

105.8

Omit subsection (10).

106

In section 183 (payment of travelling expenses), in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care
board” .

107

In section 185 (charges for more expensive supplies), in subsection (2), for
“a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

108

In section 186 (charges for repairs and replacements in certain cases), in
subsection (2), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

109

In section 187 (charges for designated services or facilities), for “section
3(1)(d) or (e)” substitute  “section 3(1)(e) or (f)” .

110

In section 188 (sums otherwise payable to those providing services), in
subsection (2), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

111

In section 196 (persons and bodies about which provision is made by this
Part), in subsection (3), for paragraph (zb) substitute—

111.zb

an integrated care board,

.

112

In section 201 (disclosure of information), in subsection (3)(a), for “a
clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

113

In section 214 (transfer of functions and property to or from Welsh special
trustees), in subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” .

114

In section 222 (power to raise money), in subsection (3A)(a), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

115

For section 223A (application of provision about public-private partnerships)
substitute—

######### Application of section 223 to integrated care boards

115.223A

115.223A.1

Section 223 applies in relation to an integrated care board as it applies in
relation to NHS England.

115.223A.2

But the powers conferred by that section are exercisable by an integrated care
board only for the purpose of securing improvement—

115.223A.2.a

in the physical and mental health of the group of people for whom it has core
responsibility (see section  14Z31 ), or

115.223A.2.b

in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illness in such people.

116

In section 223B (funding of NHS England), in subsection (8), for “14Z1”
substitute  “ 14Z42 ” .

117

In section 223F (power to establish contingency fund), in subsection (2)(b),
for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

118

118.1

Section 223G (means of meeting expenditure of clinical commissioning groups
out of public funds) is amended as follows.

118.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

118.3

In subsection (1)—

118.3.a

for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” ;

118.3.b

for “the group”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “the board” .

118.4

In subsection (2)—

118.4.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

118.4.b

in paragraph (a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

118.5

In subsection (3)—

118.5.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

118.5.b

for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

118.6

In subsections (5) and (6), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” .

118.7

In subsection (7), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

118.8

Omit subsection (8).

119

119.1

Section 223GA (expenditure on integration) is amended as follows.

119.2

In subsection (3), for “the group” substitute  “the integrated care board” .

119.3

In subsection (4)(a)—

119.3.a

for “the group” substitute  “the integrated care board” ;

119.3.b

for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

119.4

In subsections (5)(c) and (6)(b), for “clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “integrated care board” .

119.5

In subsections (10)(b) and (11), for “14Z1” substitute  “ 14Z42 ” .

120

120.1

Section 223K (payments in respect of quality) is amended as follows.

120.2

In subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

120.3

In subsection (6), omit the words from “(which may include” to the end.

120.4

In subsection (7)—

120.4.a

for “A clinical commissioning group” substitute  “An integrated care board” ;

120.4.b

for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

121

121.1

Section 236 (payments for certain medical examinations) is amended as follows.

121.2

In subsection (1), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

121.3

In subsection (2)(b)(ii), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

122

122.1

Section 244 (review and scrutiny by local authorities) is amended as follows

122.2

In subsection (2ZA)(c) and (d), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

122.3

In subsection (3A), for paragraph (a) substitute—

122.3.a

in relation to an integrated care board, includes a person who is not a member
of the board but is a member of a committee or sub-committee of it;

.

122.4

Omit subsection (3B).

123

In the italic heading before section 252A, for “clinical commissioning groups”
substitute  “integrated care boards” .

124

124.1

In section 252A (role of NHS England and clinical commissioning groups in
respect of emergencies).

124.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

124.3

In subsections (1), (2) and (3), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

124.4

In subsection (6), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” .

124.5

In subsection (10), in the definition of “relevant emergency”, in paragraph
(a)—

124.5.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

124.5.b

for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

125

125.1

Section 256 (power of NHS England or a clinical commissioning group to make
payments towards expenditure on community services) is amended as follows.

125.2

In the heading, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

125.3

In subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

125.4

In subsection (3)—

125.4.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

125.4.b

for “the clinical commissioning group” substitute  “the integrated care board”
.

126

In section 257 (payments in respect of voluntary organisations under section
256), in subsection (2), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

127

127.1

Section 258 (university clinical teaching and research) is amended as follows.

127.2

In subsection (1), for “clinical commissioning group”, in both places it
occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” .

127.3

In subsection (2)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

128

In section 269 (special notices of births and deaths), in subsection (11), for
paragraph (b) substitute—

128.b

integrated care boards,

.

129

In section 270 (provision of information by Registrar General), in subsection
(1), for paragraph (c) substitute—

129.c

an integrated care board,

.

130

In section 271A (services to be treated as services of the Crown for certain
purposes), in subsection (2)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

131

131.1

Section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions) is amended as follows.

131.2

In subsection (5), omit paragraph (za).

131.3

In subsection (6), omit paragraph (zza).

132

In section 275 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

132.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

132.b

in the definition of “financial year”, after “any year” insert  “(except that
in relation to an integrated care board it has the meaning given by section
14Z52 (8) )” ;

132.c

at the appropriate places insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section  14Z25 ,

;

“ information ” includes documents or records,

;

132.d

in the definition of “NHS body”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

an integrated care board,

.

133

In section 276 (index of defined expressions), in the appropriate places
insert—

group of people for whom an integrated care board has core responsibility
section  14Z31

partner, in relation to an NHS trust or NHS foundation trust and an integrated
care board section  14Z48

.

134

134.1

Schedule A1 (NHS England) is amended as follows.

134.2

In paragraph 16(2)(b), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

134.3

In paragraph 17(2)(b)—

134.3.a

for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” ;

134.3.b

for “paragraph 17(3) of Schedule 1A” substitute  “paragraph  22(3)  of
Schedule 1B” .

135

135.1

Schedule 1 (further provision about services) is amended as follows.

135.2

For paragraph 9 substitute—

135.2.9

135.2.9.1

An integrated care board may make arrangements for the provision of vehicles
(including wheelchairs) for people for whom the board has responsibility and
who appear to it to have a physical impairment which has a substantial and
long-term adverse effect on their ability to carry out normal day-to-day
activities.

135.2.9.2

For the purposes of this paragraph an integrated care board has responsibility
for—

135.2.9.2.a

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility (see section  14Z31 ),
and

135.2.9.2.b

such other people as may be prescribed (whether generally or in relation to a
prescribed vehicle).

135.3

In paragraph 10—

135.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” ;

135.3.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for “A clinical commissioning group” substitute  “An
integrated care board” ;

135.3.c

in sub-paragraph (5), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

135.4

In paragraph 13—

135.4.a

in sub-paragraph (1)—

135.4.a.i

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

135.4.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” ;

135.4.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

136

In Schedule 4 (NHS trusts: constitution etc), in paragraph 12, after sub-
paragraph (1) insert—

136.1A

The annual report must, in particular, review the extent to which the NHS
trust has exercised its functions in accordance with the plans published
under—

136.1A.a

section  14Z52  (joint forward plans for integrated care board and its
partners), and

136.1A.b

section  14Z56  (joint capital resource use plan for integrated care board and
its partners).

137

In Schedule 7 (constitution of public benefit corporations), in paragraph 26,
after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

137.1A

The reports must, in particular, review the extent to which the public benefit
corporation has exercised its functions in accordance with the plans published
under—

137.1A.a

section  14Z52  (joint forward plans for integrated care board and its
partners), and

137.1A.b

section  14Z56  (joint capital resource use plan for integrated care board and
its partners).

138

In Schedule 12A (pharmaceutical remuneration), in paragraph 2—

138.a

in the heading for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” ;

138.b

in sub-paragraph (3), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” ;

138.c

in sub-paragraph (4), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute
“integrated care boards” ;

138.d

in sub-paragraph (5), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” ;

138.e

in sub-paragraph (6)—

138.e.i

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

138.e.ii

in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “the group”, in both places it occurs,
substitute  “the board” ;

138.f

in sub-paragraph (8), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” ;

138.g

for sub-paragraph (9) substitute—

138.g.9

For the purposes of sections  223GC  and  223M (1)(b)  and paragraph  22  of
Schedule 1B, any amount of which an integrated care board is notified under
sub-paragraph (6) is to be treated as expenditure of the group which is
attributable to the performance by it of its functions in the year in
question.

##### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006

139

The National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 is amended as follows.

140

In section 7 (NHS contracts), in subsection (4), for paragraph (bb)
substitute—

140.bb

an integrated care board,

.

141

In section 13 (exercise of Local Health Board functions), in subsection (3),
for paragraph (ab) substitute—

141.ab

integrated care boards,

.

142

In section 17 (plans for improving health etc), in subsection (6)(g) and (h),
for “, clinical commissioning groups,” substitute  “, integrated care boards,”
.

143

In section 26 (intervention orders), in subsection (1), for “, clinical
commissioning groups and” substitute  “, integrated care boards and” .

144

In section 28 (default powers), in subsection (1), for “, clinical
commissioning groups and” substitute  “, integrated care boards and” .

145

In section 34 (power of local authorities to make payments), in subsection
(1), for “, a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “, an integrated care
board” .

146

In section 162 (transfer of functions and property to or from special
trustees), in subsection (1), for “, a clinical commissioning group,”
substitute  “, an integrated care board,” .

147

In section 197 (university clinical teaching and research), in subsection
(2)(a), for “a clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “an integrated care
board,” .

148

In section 206 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

148.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

148.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section  14Z25  of
the National Health Service Act 2006,

;

148.c

in the definition of “NHS body”, for paragraph (f) substitute—

an integrated care board.

##### NHS Redress Act 2006

149

In section 1 of the NHS Redress Act 2006 (power to establish redress scheme),
in subsection (3), for paragraph (ab) substitute—

149.ab

an integrated care board,

.

##### Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006

150

In section 6 of the Safeguarding Vulnerable Groups Act 2006 (regulated
activity providers), in subsection (8E)—

150.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

150.b

for “the clinical commissioning group” substitute  “the integrated care board”
.

##### Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007

151

In section 6 of the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate Homicide Act 2007
(emergencies), in subsection (7), in paragraph (a) of the definition of
“relevant NHS body”, for “a clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “an
integrated care board,” .

##### Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007

152

The Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007 is amended as
follows.

153

Section 222 (Local Healthwatch organisations), in subsection (3), for
paragraph (ca) substitute—

153.ca

an integrated care board;

.

154

In section 224 (duties of services-providers to respond to local involvement
networks), in subsection (2), for paragraph (zb) substitute—

154.zb

an integrated care board;

.

155

In section 227 (Local Healthwatch organisations: annual reports), in
subsection (4)(ab), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

##### Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007

156

156.1

Section 42 of the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007 (information
relating to births and deaths etc) is amended as follows.

156.2

In subsection (4A), for paragraph (d) substitute—

156.2.d

an integrated care board,

.

156.3

In subsection (7), for ““clinical commissioning group”” substitute
““integrated care board”” .

##### Education and Skills Act 2008

157

The Education and Skills Act 2008 is amended as follows.

158

In section 16 (supply of information by public bodies), in subsection (2), for
paragraph (da) substitute—

158.da

an integrated care board,

.

159

In section 77 (supply of information by public bodies), in subsection (2), for
paragraph (da) substitute—

159.da

an integrated care board,

.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2008

160

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 is amended as follows.

161

In section 30 (urgent procedure for cancellation), in subsection (3)(a), for
“clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

162

In section 39 (bodies required to be notified of certain matters), in
subsection (1)(a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

163

In section 48 (reviews and investigations), in subsection (2)(ba), for “a
clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

164

In section 54 (studies as to economy, efficiency etc), in subsection (5), for
“a clinical commissioning group or” substitute  “an integrated care board or”
.

165

In section 59 (additional functions), in subsection (3), for “clinical
commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

166

In section 64 (power to require documents and information), in subsection
(2)(b), for sub-paragraph (ii) (but not the “or” at the end) substitute—

166.ii

an integrated care board,

.

167

In section 97 (general interpretation of Part 1), in subsection (1)—

167.a

in the definition of “English NHS body”, for paragraph (cb) substitute—

an integrated care board,

;

167.b

in the definition of “NHS care”, for “a clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “an integrated care board” .

##### Autism Act 2009

168

In section 4 of the Autism Act 2009 (interpretation), in subsection (1), in
the definition of “NHS body”, for paragraph (cb) substitute—

168.cb

an integrated care board;

.

##### Health Act 2009

169

The Health Act 2009 is amended as follows.

170

170.1

Section 2 (duty to have regard to NHS constitution) is amended as follows.

170.2

In subsection (2) for paragraph (cb) substitute—

170.2.cb

integrated care boards;

.

170.3

In subsection (4)(za) for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

171

In section 8 (duty of providers to publish information), in subsection (6),
for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

##### Corporation Tax Act 2010

172

In section 986 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 (meaning of “ health service
body ”), in the table—

172.a

omit the entry for a  clinical commissioning group;

172.b

after the entry for a Health Board insert—

an integrated care board section  14Z25  of the National Health Service Act
2006

.

##### Equality Act 2010

173

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (bodies subject to public
sector equality duty), in the group of entries that includes entries for
bodies whose functions relate to health, social care and social security, for
the entry for a clinical commissioning group substitute—

An integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006.

##### Charities Act 2011

174

In section 149 of the Charities Act 2011 (audit or examination of English NHS
charity accounts), in subsection (7), for paragraph (bb) substitute—

174.bb

an integrated care board,

.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

175

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

176

In section 95 (licensing: special conditions), in subsection (2)(d), for
“clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

177

In section 99 (notification of commissioners where continuation of services at
risk), in subsection (5), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute
“integrated care boards” .

178

In section 100 (modification of standard conditions), in subsection (2)(d),
for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” .

179

In section 102 (modification of conditions by order under other enactments),
in subsection (4)(c)(i), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

180

In section 104 (power to require documents and information), in subsection
(2), for paragraph (f) substitute—

180.f

an integrated care board.

181

In section 110 (notification of enforcement action), in subsection (1)(b), for
“clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

182

In section 141 (levy on providers: consultation), in subsection (3), for
paragraph (c) substitute—

182.c

each integrated care board,

.

183

In section 150 (interpretation, transitional provision and consequential
amendments), omit subsection (3).

184

In section 194 (establishment of Health and Wellbeing Boards), in subsections
(2)(f) (6), (7), (10) and (13)(c), for “clinical commissioning group”, in each
place it occurs, substitute  “integrated care board” .

185

In section 196 (other functions of Health and Wellbeing Boards), in subsection
(1), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards”
.

186

In section 241 (commissioning guidance), in subsection (1), for “section 14Z8
of the National Health Service Act 2006” substitute  “section  14Z51  of the
National Health Service Act 2006 so far as relating to arrangements for the
provision of services as part of the health service” .

187

187.1

Section 298 (advice or assistance to public authorities in the Isle of Man or
Channel Islands) is amended as follows.

187.2

In subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

187.3

In subsection (2), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated
care board” .

188

In section 306 (commencement), omit subsection (7).

189

Omit Schedule 6 (transitional provision in connection with clinical
commissioning groups).

##### Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014

190

The Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 is amended as follows.

191

In section 105 (ASB case reviews: interpretation), in subsection (2), for
paragraph (c) of the definition of “ relevant bodies ” (but not the “and” at
the end) substitute—

each integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006 whose area is wholly or partly within that local
government area,

.

192

In Schedule 4 (case reviews: supplementary provision), in paragraph 5(2)(a),
for sub-paragraph (iii) substitute—

192.iii

each integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006 whose area is wholly or partly within that local
government area;

.

##### Care Act 2014

193

The Care Act 2014 is amended as follows.

194

In section 6 (co-operating generally), in subsection (8)(b), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” .

195

195.1

Section 22 (exception for provision of health services) is amended as follows.

195.2

In subsection (4)(a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

195.3

In subsection (6)(b), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

195.4

In subsection (9), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

196

In section 52 (sections 48 to 51: supplementary), in subsection (9)—

196.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

196.b

for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

197

In Schedule 1 (cross-border placements), in paragraph 1(5)(a)(ii), (b)(ii) and
(c)(ii), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care
board” .

198

198.1

Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 (Safeguarding Adults Boards) is amended as follows.

198.2

In sub-paragraph (1)(b), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

198.3

In sub-paragraph (5)—

198.3.a

for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “integrated care board” ;

198.3.b

for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

##### Children and Families Act 2014

199

The Children and Families Act 2014 is amended as follows.

200

200.1

Section 23 (duty of health bodies to bring certain children to local
authority’s attention) is amended as follows.

200.2

In subsection (1), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

200.3

In subsections (2) to (4), for “group”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“board” .

201

201.1

Section 26 (joint commissioning arrangements) is amended as follows.

201.2

In subsection (8)(b), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

201.3

In subsection (9), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

202

In section 28 (co-operating generally: local authority functions), in
subsections (2)(l) and (4), for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” .

203

In section 31 (co-operating in specific cases: local authority functions), in
subsection (1), for paragraph (e) substitute—

203.e

an integrated care board;

.

204

In section 53 (mediation: health care issues), in subsection (5), for
paragraph (b) substitute—

204.b

an integrated care board;

.

205

In section 56 (mediation: supplementary), in subsection (3), for paragraph (b)
substitute—

205.b

an integrated care board;

.

206

In section 57 (resolution of disagreements), in subsection (7), for paragraph
(b) substitute—

206.b

an integrated care board;

.

207

In section 77 (code of practice), in subsection (1), for paragraph (k)
substitute—

207.k

integrated care boards;

.

##### Immigration Act 2014

208

In Schedule 3 to the Immigration Act 2014 (excluded residential tenancy
agreements), in paragraph 5(2)(a), for sub-paragraph (i) (but not the “or” at
the end) substitute—

208.i

an integrated care board,

.

##### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

209

The Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 is amended as follows.

210

In section 4 (general requirements for audit), for subsection (4) substitute—

210.4

In relation to an integrated care board, “ accounts ” means—

210.4.a

the annual accounts of the board prepared under paragraph  22(2)  of Schedule
1B to the National Health Service Act 2006 (accounts and audit of integrated
care boards);

210.4.b

any accounts of the board prepared under paragraph  22(3)  of that Schedule in
respect of which a direction has been given under paragraph  22(6)  of that
Schedule.

211

In section 8 (procedure for appointment), in subsection (4), for paragraph (b)
substitute—

211.b

in the case of an integrated care board, it publishes the notice in such
manner as it thinks is likely to bring the notice to the attention of—

211.b.i

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility, and

211.b.ii

anyone who lives within its area but does not fall within sub-paragraph (i)

.

212

In section 10 (functions of auditor panel), in subsection (10), for paragraph
(b)—

212.b

in the case of an integrated care board, it publishes the advice in such
manner as it thinks is likely to bring the advice to the attention of—

212.b.i

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility, and

212.b.ii

anyone who lives within its area but does not fall within sub-paragraph (i);

.

213

In section 21 (general duties of auditors of accounts of health service
bodies), in subsection (1)—

213.a

for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

213.b

in paragraphs (c) and (f), for “the group” substitute  “the board” .

214

214.1

Section 44 (interpretation of Act) is amended as follows.

214.2

In subsection (1), for paragraph (b) of the definition of “area” substitute—

in relation to an integrated care board, means the area specified in the
board’s constitution (see Schedule 1B to the National Health Service Act
2006);

.

214.3

For subsection (5) substitute—

214.3.5

References in this Act to the group of people for whom an integrated care
board has core responsibility are to be read in accordance with section  14Z31
of the National Health Service Act 2006.

215

In Schedule 2 (relevant authorities), for paragraph 23 substitute—

215.23

An integrated care board.

216

In Schedule 5 (eligibility and regulation of local auditors), in paragraph 5,
in the modified section 1214 of the Companies Act 2006—

216.a

in subsection (1), omit “(3),”;

216.b

for subsection (3) substitute—

216.b.3

In relation to a relevant authority that is an integrated care board,
subsection (2)(a) has effect as if “or officer” were omitted.

217

In Schedule 7 (reports and recommendations), in paragraph 4(8), for paragraph
(b) substitute—

217.b

in the case of an integrated care board, it publishes the notice or report in
such manner as it thinks is likely to bring the notice or report to the
attention of—

217.b.i

the group of people for whom it has core responsibility, and

217.b.ii

anyone who lives within its area but does not fall within sub-paragraph (i)

.

##### Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 4)

218

The Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 is amended as follows.

219

In section 47 (exception for provision of health services), in subsection
(10)—

219.a

in the English language text—

219.a.i

in the definition of “English health body”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

an integrated care board;

;

219.a.ii

in the definition of “health body”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

an integrated care board;

;

219.b

in the Welsh language text—

219.b.i

in the definition of “corff iechyd”, for paragraph (b) substitute—

bwrdd gofal integredig;

;

219.b.ii

in the definition of “corff iechyd Seisnig”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

bwrdd gofal integredig;

.

220

In section 77 (accommodation for children in police protection or detention or
on remand etc), in subsection (4)(b)(ii)—

220.a

in the English language text, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” ;

220.b

in the Welsh language text, for “grŵp comisiynu clinigol” substitute  “fwrdd
gofal integredig” .

221

In section 104 (young people entitled to support under sections 105 to 115),
in subsection (3)(d)(ii)—

221.a

in the English language text, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” ;

221.b

in the Welsh language text, for “grŵp comisiynu clinigol” substitute  “bwrdd
gofal integredig” .

222

In section 118 (information), in subsection (2)(c)—

222.a

in the English language text, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” ;

222.b

in the Welsh language text, for “grŵp comisiynu clinigol” substitute  “bwrdd
gofal integredig” .

223

In section 164A (duty of other persons to co-operate and provide information),
in subsection (4)(d)—

223.a

in the English language text, for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” ;

223.b

in the Welsh language text, for “grŵp comisiynu clinigol” substitute  “fwrdd
gofal integredig” .

224

In section 193 (recovery of costs between local authorities), in subsection
(4)(c)—

224.a

in the English language text, for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute
“an integrated care board” ;

224.b

in the Welsh language text, for “grŵp comisiynu clinigol” substitute  “fwrdd
gofal integredig” .

225

In section 197 (general interpretation and index of defined expressions), in
subsection (1)—

225.a

in the English language text—

225.a.i

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

225.a.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” (“ bwrdd gofal integredig ”) means a body
established under section  14Z25  of the National Health Service Act 2006;

;

225.b

in the Welsh language text—

225.b.i

omit the definition of “grŵp comisiynu clinigol”;

225.b.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ystyr “ bwrdd gofal integredig ” (“ integrated care board ”) yw corff a
sefydlir o dan adran  14Z25  o Ddeddf y Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol 2006;

.

##### Housing (Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 7)

226

226.1

Section 70 of the Housing (Wales) Act 2014 (priority need for accommodation)
is amended as follows.

226.2

In subsection (2)—

226.2.a

in the English language text, in paragraph (d)(ii), for “a clinical
commissioning group” substitute  “an integrated care board” ;

226.2.b

in the Welsh language text, in paragraph (d)(ii), for “grŵp comisiynu
clinigol” substitute  “fwrdd gofal integredig” .

226.3

In subsection (3)—

226.3.a

in the English language text—

226.3.a.i

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

226.3.a.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” (“ bwrdd gofal integredig ”) means a body
established under section  14Z25  of the National Health Service Act 2006;

;

226.3.b

in the Welsh language text—

226.3.b.i

omit the definition of “grŵp comisiynu clinigol”;

226.3.b.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ystyr “ bwrdd gofal integredig ” (“ integrated care board ”) yw corff a
sefydlir o dan adran  14Z25  o Ddeddf y Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol 2006;

.

##### Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015

227

In Schedule 7 to the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015 (partners of
local panels), under the italic heading “Health and social care”, for “A
clinical commissioning group established under section 14D” substitute  “An
integrated care board established under section  14Z25 ” .

##### Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016

228

228.1

Section 18 of the Cities and Local Government Devolution Act 2016 (devolving
health service functions) is amended as follows.

228.2

In subsection (3)(b), for “Chapter A2 of Part 2 of the NHSA 2006 (clinical
commissioning groups)” substitute  “Chapter A3 of Part 2 of the NHSA 2006
(integrated care boards)” .

228.3

In subsection (5)—

228.3.a

in paragraph (b), for “clinical commissioning groups” substitute  “integrated
care boards” ;

228.3.b

for paragraph (f) substitute—

228.3.b.f

the guidance published under section  14Z51  of the NHSA 2006 (guidance for
integrated care boards);

.

##### Data Protection Act 2018

229

In Schedule 3 to the Data Protection Act 2018 (social work data), in paragraph
8(2), for paragraph (d) substitute—

229.d

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of the National
Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (anaw 2)

230

The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 is
amended as follows.

231

In section 4 (additional learning needs code), in subsection (3)—

231.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (j) substitute—

231.a.j

an integrated care board;

;

231.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (j) substitute—

231.b.j

bwrdd gofal integredig;

.

232

In section 64 (duty of health bodies to notify parents etc), in subsection
(2)—

232.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (c) substitute—

232.a.c

an integrated care board;

;

232.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (c) substitute—

232.b.c

bwrdd gofal integredig;

.

233

In section 65 (duties to provide information and other help), in subsection
(4)—

233.a

in the English language text, for paragraph (k) substitute—

233.a.k

an integrated care board;

;

233.b

in the Welsh language text, for paragraph (k) substitute—

233.b.k

bwrdd gofal integredig;

.

234

In section 99 (general interpretation), in subsection (1)—

234.a

in the English language text—

234.a.i

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

234.a.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” (“ bwrdd gofal integredig ”) means a body
established under section  14Z25  of the National Health Service Act 2006;

;

234.b

in the Welsh language text—

234.b.i

omit the definition of “grŵp comisiynu clinigol”;

234.b.ii

at the appropriate place insert—

“ystyr “ bwrdd gofal integredig ” (“ integrated care board ”) yw corff a
sefydlir o dan adran  14Z25  o Ddeddf y Gwasanaeth Iechyd Gwladol 2006;

.

##### Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 (

235

The Network and Information Systems Regulations 2018 are amended as follows.

236

In regulation 1(2) (interpretation), in the definition of “OES”, after
“regulation 8(1)” insert  “or  (2A) ” .

237

237.1

Regulation 8 (identification of operators of essential services) is amended as
follows.

237.2

After paragraph (2) insert—

237.2.2A

Each integrated care board is deemed to be designated as an OES for the
healthcare settings subsector and, in relation to an integrated care board,
any services provided by it (including the making of arrangements for the
provision of services by others) are deemed to be essential services.

237.3

In paragraph (8), after “paragraph (1)” insert  “or  (2A) ” .

##### NHS Funding Act 2020

238

In section 1 of the NHS Funding Act 2020 (funding settlement for the health
service in England), in subsection (2), for “section 223D(2) and (3)”
substitute  “section  223D (1)(a)  and  (b) ” .

##### Domestic Abuse Act 2021

239

In section 15 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (duty to co-operate with the
Domestic Abuse Commissioner), in subsection (7), for paragraph (d) of the
definition of “NHS body in England” and the “or” at the end of that paragraph
substitute—

an integrated care board established under section  14Z25  of that Act;

.

##### Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022

240

The Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 is amended as follows.

241

241.1

Section 25 (relevant review partners) is amended as follows.

241.2

In subsection (2)(c) for “a clinical commissioning group” substitute  “an
integrated care board” .

241.3

In subsection (3)(c) for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“integrated care board” .

242

In section 36 (interpretation), in subsection (1)—

242.a

omit the definition of “clinical commissioning group”;

242.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ integrated care board ” means a body established under section 14Z25 of the
National Health Service Act 2006;

;

242.c

in the definition of “review partner”, for paragraph (c) substitute—

an integrated care board, or

.

243

In Schedule 1 (specified authorities and local government areas), in the table
headed “Health and social care”—

243.a

for “A clinical commissioning group established under section 14D” substitute
“An integrated care board established under section 14Z25” ;

243.b

for “the group’s” substitute  “the board’s” .

Abolition of Monitor and transfer of its functions

Section 33

##### General

1

Any reference to Monitor in an instrument or other document made before the
day on which section 33(2) comes into force is to be read, in relation to any
time after that provision comes into force, as a reference to NHS England.

##### Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960

2

In the Schedule to the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960 (bodies
to which Act applies), in paragraph 1, omit sub-paragraph (bk).

##### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967

3

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (departments etc
subject to investigation), omit the entry for Monitor.

##### Superannuation Act 1972

4

In Schedule 1 to the Superannuation Act 1972 (kinds of employment etc referred
to in section 1), omit the entry for Monitor.

##### House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975

5

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975
(other disqualifying offices), omit the entry for the chair or other member of
Monitor.

##### Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act 1975

6

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act
1975 (other disqualifying offices)—

6.a

at the appropriate place insert—

Chair or non-executive member of NHS England.

;

6.b

omit the entry for the chair or other member of Monitor.

##### Employment Rights Act 1996

7

In section 49B of the Employment Rights Act 1996 (the health service:
regulations prohibiting discrimination because of protected disclosure), in
subsection (7), omit paragraph (k).

##### Freedom of Information Act 2000

8

In Part 6 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (other public
bodies and offices: general), omit the entry for Monitor.

##### National Health Service Act 2006

9

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

10

For section 2 substitute—

######### General power

10.2

10.2.1

The Secretary of State may do anything which is calculated to facilitate, or
is conducive or incidental to, the discharge of any function conferred on the
Secretary of State by this Act.

10.2.2

NHS England or an integrated care board may do anything which is calculated to
facilitate, or is conducive or incidental to, the discharge of any of its
functions.

11

In section 33 (applications by NHS trusts), in each of subsections (1) to (3),
for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

12

12.1

Section 35 (authorisation of NHS foundation trusts) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1)—

12.2.a

for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

12.2.b

for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

12.3

In subsections (2)(f) and (3), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

12.4

In subsection (3A) and (5), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

12.5

In subsection (6), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

13

In section 37 (amendments of constitution), in subsection (4)—

13.a

for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

13.b

for “the regulator’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

14

14.1

Section 39 (register of NHS foundation trusts) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

14.3

In subsection (3), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

15

In section 39A (panel for advising governors), in subsections (1) and (9), for
“The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

16

In section 42A (criteria for making loans etc), in subsection (7)(b), for “the
regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

17

In section 50 (fees), for “the regulator”, in both places it occurs,
substitute  “NHS England” .

18

In section 56 (mergers), in subsection (1), for “the regulator” substitute
“NHS England” .

19

19.1

Section 56A (acquisitions) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

19.3

In subsection (4A), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

20

In section 56AA (acquisitions under section 56A: supplementary), in subsection
(1)(a), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

21

In section 56B (separations), in subsection (1), for “the regulator”
substitute  “NHS England” .

22

In section 57 (sections 56 to 56B: supplementary), in subsections (1) and (2),
for “the regulator”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

23

23.1

Section 57A (dissolution) is amended as follows.

23.2

In subsection (1), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

23.3

In subsection (3), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

23.4

In subsection (4), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

24

In section 64 (orders and regulations under Chapter), in subsection (4A), for
“the regulator”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

25

25.1

Section 244 (review and scrutiny by local authorities) is amended as follows.

25.2

In subsection (2)(b), for “the Secretary of State or the regulator” substitute
“or the Secretary of State” .

25.3

In subsections (2ZA)(a) and (2ZC), omit “, the regulator”.

26

In section 247C (Secretary of State’s duty to keep health service functions
under review), in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b).

27

In section 258 (university clinical teaching and research), after subsection
(2) insert—

27.3

A reference in this section to the functions of NHS England does not include
its regulatory functions.

28

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection
(6ZA), for “the regulator”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “NHS
England” .

29

In section 275 (interpretation), in subsection (1), omit the definition of
“the regulator”.

30

In section 276 (index of defined expressions), omit the entry for “the
regulator”.

31

31.1

Schedule 7 (constitution of public benefit corporations) is amended as
follows.

31.2

In paragraph 24—

31.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1A), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

31.2.b

in sub-paragraph (4C), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

31.3

In paragraph 25—

31.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

31.3.b

in sub-paragraph (1A), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

31.3.c

in sub-paragraphs (2), (3), (4) and (4A), for “the regulator”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

31.4

In paragraph 26(1), (2), (2A), and (3), for “the regulator”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

31.5

In paragraph 27(1), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

32

In Schedule 10 (audit of accounts of NHS foundation trusts)—

32.a

in paragraphs 5, 6 and 8(1)(c), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England”
;

32.b

in the italic heading before paragraph 6, for “regulator” substitute  “NHS
England” .

##### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006

33

In section 184 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 (functions of
overview and scrutiny committees), in subsection (2)(b), for “, the Welsh
Ministers or Monitor” substitute  “or the Welsh Ministers” .

##### Health and Social Care Act 2008

34

The Health and Social Care Act 2008 is amended as follows.

35

In section 20A (functions relating to processing of information by registered
persons), in subsection (1)(b), omit “and Monitor”.

36

In section 30 (urgent procedure for cancellation), in subsection (3), omit
paragraph (c).

37

In section 39 (bodies required to be notified of certain matters), in
subsection (1), omit paragraph (c).

38

In section 45A (functions to be exercised by Healthwatch England), in
subsection (6), omit paragraph (c).

39

In section 59 (additional functions), in subsection (2), for “Monitor”
substitute  “NHS England” .

40

40.1

Section 70 (Co-operation between the Care Quality Commission and Monitor) is
amended as follows.

40.2

In the heading, for “the Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

40.3

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

40.4

In subsection (2)—

40.4.a

in paragraph (a)—

40.4.a.i

for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” ;

40.4.a.ii

for “its functions” substitute

—

40.4.a.ii.i

its regulatory functions, within the meaning given by section  13SB (2)  of
the National Health Service Act 2006, or

40.4.a.ii.ii

its functions under section  27A  of the National Health Service Act 2006 (NHS
trusts: oversight and support)

;

40.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

40.5

In subsection (3) for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Health Act 2009

41

The Health Act 2009 is amended as follows.

42

In section 2 (duty to have regard to NHS Constitution), in subsection (2),
omit paragraph (f).

43

In section 9 (supplementary provision about the duty), in subsection (3), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

##### Equality Act 2010

44

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (public authorities:
general), in the group of entries that includes entries for bodies whose
functions relate to health, social care and social security, omit the entry
for Monitor.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

45

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

46

In Part 3, omit Chapter 1 (Monitor).

47

47.1

Section 83 (exemption regulations) is amended as follows.

47.2

In subsection (3)(a), (b) and (c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

47.3

In subsection (4), omit paragraph (a).

48

In section 84 (exemption regulations: supplementary), in subsection (5)(a),
omit sub-paragraph (i).

49

In section 85 (application for licence), in subsections (1) and (2), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

50

In section 86 (licensing criteria), in each of subsections (1) to (3), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

51

In section 87 (grant or refusal of licence), in subsections (2) and (3), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

52

In section 88 (application and grant: NHS foundation trusts), in subsection
(2), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

53

In section 89 (revocation of licence), for “Monitor”, in both places it
occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

54

54.1

Section 90 (right to make representations) is amended as follows.

54.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

54.3

In subsection (2)—

54.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” ;

54.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

55

In section 91 (notice of decisions), in subsections (1), (2) and (4), for
“Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

56

56.1

Section 92 (appeals to the Tribunal) is amended as follows.

56.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

56.3

In subsection (3)—

56.3.a

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” ;

56.3.b

in paragraph (c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

57

In section 93 (register of licence holders), in each of subsections (1) to (4)
and (6), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

58

58.1

Section 94 (standard conditions) is amended as follows.

58.2

In subsections (1) and (4), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“NHS England” .

58.3

Omit subsections (7) to (11).

59

59.1

Section 95 (special conditions) is amended as follows.

59.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

59.3

In subsection (2)—

59.3.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

59.3.b

omit paragraph (c).

59.4

In subsection (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

59.5

In subsection (4)—

59.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

59.5.b

in paragraph (b), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” ;

59.5.c

in paragraph (c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

60

60.1

Section 96 (limits on Monitor’s functions to set or modify licence conditions)
is amended as follows.

60.2

In the heading for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

60.3

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

60.4

In subsection (2)—

60.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

60.4.b

in paragraph (e), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

60.4.c

in paragraph (f), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

60.4.d

in paragraph (i), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” ;

60.4.e

for paragraph (k) substitute—

60.4.e.k

for such other purposes as may be prescribed.

60.5

In subsection (4), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

61

In section 97 (conditions: supplementary), in subsections (1)(a), (b), (e),
(f), (h), (i)(ii) and (iii) and (3), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “NHS England” .

62

62.1

Section 98 (conditions relating to the continuation of the provision of
services etc) is amended as follows.

62.2

In subsection (1)(a), (b) and (c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

62.3

In subsection (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

62.4

In subsection (4) for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

62.5

After subsection (5) insert—

62.5.5A

In subsections (4)(a) and (5) “ commissioner ” does not include NHS England.

62.6

In subsection (6), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

62.7

In subsection (7)—

62.7.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

62.7.b

omit paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

63

63.1

Section 99 (notification of commissioners where continuation of services at
risk) is amended as follows.

63.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

63.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

63.3.3

NHS England must as soon as reasonably practicable notify such integrated care
boards as NHS England considers appropriate—

63.3.3.a

of the action it has taken, and

63.3.3.b

of its reasons for being satisfied as mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

63.4

In subsection (4)—

63.4.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

63.4.b

for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

63.5

In subsection (5), omit “The Board and”.

64

64.1

Section 100 (modification of standard conditions) is amended as follows.

64.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

64.3

In subsection (2)—

64.3.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

64.3.b

omit paragraph (c).

64.4

In subsection (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

64.5

In subsection (4)—

64.5.a

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

64.5.b

in paragraph (c), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” ;

64.5.c

in paragraph (d), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

64.6

In subsection (10), for “Monitor”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “NHS
England” .

65

In section 102 (modification of conditions by order under other enactments),
in subsection (6)(a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

66

66.1

Section 104 (power to require documents and information) is amended as
follows.

66.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

66.3

In subsection (2), omit paragraph (e) (but not the “and” at the end).

66.4

For subsection (4) substitute—

66.4.4

In this section “ regulatory functions ”, in relation to NHS England, has the
meaning given by section  13SB (2)  of the National Health Service Act 2006.

67

In section 105 (discretionary requirements), in subsections (1), (2)(a), (b)
and (c) and (3), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS
England” .

68

In section 106 (enforcement undertakings), in subsections (1), (4) and (5),
for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

69

69.1

Section 108 (guidance as to use of enforcement powers) is amended as follows.

69.2

In each of subsections (1) to (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

69.3

In subsection (4)—

69.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s”
;

69.3.b

in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

69.4

In subsection (5), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

70

In section 109 (publication of enforcement action), in subsections (1) and
(2), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

71

In section 110 (notification of enforcement action), in subsection (1)—

71.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

71.b

omit paragraph (a).

72

In section 111 (imposition of licence conditions on NHS foundation trusts), in
each of subsections (1) to (2A), and (4) to (9), for “Monitor”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

73

73.1

Section 113 (orders under section 112: criteria for deciding applicable
trusts) is amended as follows.

73.2

In each of subsections (1) to (5), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “NHS England” .

73.3

In subsection (6), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

74

In section 128 (health special administration orders), in subsection (2), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

75

75.1

Section 130 (health special administration regulations) is amended as follows.

75.2

In subsection (5), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

75.3

In subsection (6)—

75.3.a

in paragraphs (a) and (b), “Monitor” substitute “NHS England”;

75.3.b

in paragraph (c)—

75.3.b.i

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

75.3.b.ii

omit “and the National Health Service Commissioning Board”;

75.3.c

in paragraph (d), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

75.4

In subsection (11), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “such persons as
the Secretary of State considers appropriate” .

76

In section 131 (transfer schemes), in subsection (2)(a), (b) and (c), for
“Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

77

In section 132 (indemnities), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

78

In section 134 (duty to establish mechanisms for providing financial
assistance), in each of subsections (1) to (6), for “Monitor”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

79

79.1

Section 135 (power to establish fund) is amended as follows

79.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

79.3

In subsection (2)—

79.3.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

79.3.b

for “commissioners” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

79.4

In each of subsections (3) and (5) to (8), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS
England” .

80

In section 136 (applications), in each of subsections (1) to (3) and (6) to
(9), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

81

In section 137 (grants and loans), in each of subsections (1) and (3) to (5),
for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

82

82.1

Section 138 (power to impose charges on commissioners) is amended as follows.

82.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

82.2.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations confer power on NHS England to
require integrated care boards to pay charges relating to such of NHS
England’s regulatory functions as relate to securing the continued provision
of health care services for the purposes of the NHS.

82.2.1A

In subsection (1) “ regulatory functions ”, in relation to NHS England, has
the meaning given by section  13SB (2)  of the National Health Service Act
2006.

82.3

In subsection (3)(c), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

82.4

In subsection (4), for “Monitor”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “NHS
England” .

82.5

For subsection (5) substitute—

82.5.5

Before making regulations under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult NHS England.

83

83.1

Section 139 (imposition of levy) is amended as follows.

83.2

In subsection (2)—

83.2.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

83.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “commissioners” substitute  “integrated care boards” .

83.3

In subsection (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

84

In section 140 (power of Secretary of State to set limit on levy and charges),
in subsections (1)(a) and (2), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “NHS England” .

85

85.1

Section 141 (consultation) is amended as follows.

85.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

85.3

In subsection (3)—

85.3.a

for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

85.3.b

omit paragraph (b).

85.4

In subsections (4), (5)(a), (6) and (8), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS
England” .

86

In section 143 (amount payable), in each of subsections (1), (4) to (6) and
(8), for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

87

In section 144 (investment principles and reviews), in each of subsections (1)
to (3), (4)(b) and (6), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

88

In section 145 (borrowing), in subsections (1) and (2), for “Monitor”
substitute  “NHS England” .

89

In section 146 (shortfall or excess of available funds, etc), in each of
subsections (1) to (3), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

90

90.1

Section 148 (service of documents) is amended as follows.

90.2

In subsection (6)(a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

90.3

Omit subsection (9).

91

In section 149 (electronic communications), in each of subsections (2) to (5),
for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

92

92.1

Section 150 is amended as follows.

92.2

In subsection (1)—

92.2.a

for the definition of “anti-competitive behaviour” substitute—

“ anti-competitive behaviour ” means behaviour which would (or would be likely
to) prevent, restrict or distort competition and a reference to preventing
anti-competitive behaviour includes a reference to eliminating or reducing the
effects (or potential effects) of the behaviour;

;

92.2.b

for the definitions of “health care” and “health care service” substitute—

“ health care ” means all forms of health care provided for individuals,
whether relating to physical or mental health, with a reference in this Part
to “health care services” being read accordingly; and for the purposes of this
Part it does not matter if a health care service is also an adult social care
service;

;

92.2.c

for the definition of “the NHS” substitute—

“ the NHS ” means the comprehensive health service continued under section
1(1) of the National Health Service Act 2006, except the part of it that is
provided in pursuance of the public health functions (within the meaning of
that Act) of the Secretary of State or local authorities;

.

92.3

After subsection (1) insert—

92.3.1A

A reference in this Part to the provision of health care services for the
purposes of the NHS is a reference to their provision for those purposes in
accordance with the National Health Service Act 2006.

93

In section 175 (objective of trust special administration), omit subsection
(2).

94

94.1

Section 254 (powers to direct Information Centre to establish information
systems) is amended as follows.

94.2

In subsection (3) for “NHS Services” substitute  “health services” .

94.3

Omit subsection (4).

95

In section 255 (powers to request Information Centre to establish information
systems), in subsection (9), omit paragraph (a).

96

96.1

In section 288 (duty to co-operate with Care Quality Commission) is amended as
follows.

96.2

In subsection (1), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

96.3

In subsection (2)(a)—

96.3.a

for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” ;

96.3.b

after “any” insert  “relevant” .

96.4

After subsection (2) insert—

96.4.2A

In subsection (2)(a) “ relevant information ” means information held by NHS
England in connection with—

96.4.2A.a

its regulatory functions, within the meaning given by section  13SB (2)  of
the National Health Service Act 2006, or

96.4.2A.b

its functions under section  27A  of the National Health Service Act 2006 Act
(NHS trusts: oversight and support).

97

97.1

Section 290 (other duties to co-operate) is amended as follows.

97.2

Omit subsection (1).

97.3

In subsection (3), omit paragraph (a).

97.4

Omit subsections (5) and (6).

98

In section 291 (breaches of duties to co-operate), in subsection (2)—

98.a

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” ;

98.b

for paragraph (b), substitute—

98.b.b

the duty under section 290(2),

;

98.c

in paragraph (a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS England” .

99

99.1

Section 304 (regulations, orders and directions) is amended as follows.

99.2

In subsection (5), omit paragraph (a).

99.3

In subsection (12)(a), omit sub-paragraph (i).

100

100.1

Schedule 11 (further provision about Monitor’s enforcement powers) is amended
as follows.

100.2

In the heading, for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

100.3

In the following provisions for “Monitor”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“NHS England” —

100.3.a

paragraph 1(1), (2)(a), (d) and (e) and (4);

100.3.b

paragraph 2(1), (2), (3)(a) and (5);

100.3.c

paragraph 3(1) and (4)(b) and (c);

100.3.d

paragraph 4;

100.3.e

paragraph 5(1), (2), (5) and (6);

100.3.f

paragraph 6(1) and (4)(b);

100.3.g

paragraph 7(1);

100.3.h

paragraph 8;

100.3.i

paragraph 9(1), (2) and (3);

100.3.j

paragraph 10(1) and (2);

100.3.k

paragraph 11;

100.3.l

paragraph 12(1), (2), (3) and (4);

100.3.m

paragraph 13(1);

100.3.n

paragraph 14.

100.4

In paragraph 13(3), for “Monitor’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

##### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

101

In Schedule 6 to the Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 (codes of audit
practice and guidance), in paragraph 10(4)(a), for “Monitor” substitute  “NHS
England” .

##### Mental Health Units (Use of Force) Act 2018

102

In section 9 of the Mental Health Units (Use of Force) Act 2018 (investigation
of deaths or serious injuries), omit paragraph (b).

##### Domestic Abuse Act 2021

103

In section 15 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (duty to co-operate with the
Domestic Abuse Commissioner), in subsection (3), omit paragraph (q).

  Intervention powers over the reconfiguration of NHS services

Section 46

  In the National Health Service Act 2006, after Schedule 10 insert—
SCHEDULE 10A   Intervention powers in relation to the reconfiguration of NHS
services   Section 68A   Definitions   1     In this Schedule—         “ NHS
commissioning body ” means NHS England or an integrated care board;
“ NHS services ” means services provided as part of the health service in
England;           “ NHS trust ” means an NHS trust established under section
25;           “ reconfiguration of NHS services ” means a change in the
arrangements made by an NHS commissioning body for the provision of NHS
services where that change has an impact on—         the manner in which a
service is delivered to individuals (at the point when the service is received
by users), or           the range of health services available to individuals.
Duty to notify Secretary of State of reconfiguration proposals   2       1
If an NHS commissioning body proposes a notifiable reconfiguration of NHS
services it must notify the Secretary of State.         2     For the purposes
of this paragraph a reconfiguration of NHS services is “notifiable” if it is
of a description specified in regulations.           Power to call-in proposal
for reconfiguration   3       1     The Secretary of State may give an NHS
commissioning body a direction calling in any proposal by the body for the
reconfiguration of NHS services.         2     Where a direction is given
under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State—     a     may, within the
period of 6 months beginning with the date of the direction, take any decision
in relation to the proposal that could have been taken by the NHS
commissioning body, and         b     must notify the NHS commissioning body
once the Secretary of State has finished considering the proposal.
3     The power of the Secretary of State to take decisions under sub-
paragraph  (2)(a)  includes—     a     power to decide whether a proposal
should, or should not, proceed, or should proceed in a modified form;
b     power to decide particular results to be achieved by the NHS
commissioning body in taking decisions in relation to the proposal;         c
power to decide procedural or other steps that should, or should not, be taken
in relation to the proposal;         d     power to retake any decision
previously taken by the NHS commissioning body.             4     The
Secretary of State must, before acting under sub-paragraph (2), give each of
the following an opportunity to make representations to the Secretary of State
in relation to the proposal—     a     the NHS commissioning body,         b
if the NHS commissioning body is an integrated care board, NHS England,
c     each local authority (within the meaning of section 2B) to whose area
the proposed reconfiguration of NHS services relates, and         d     any
other person that the Secretary of State considers appropriate.             5
The Secretary of State must—     a     publish any decision under sub-
paragraph  (2)(a)  together with an explanation of the reasons for taking it,
and         b     notify the NHS commissioning body of the decision and the
reasons.             6     The Secretary of State must publish a summary of
any representations made under sub-paragraph (4).           4       1     This
paragraph applies where the Secretary of State gives a direction under
paragraph  3(1)  calling in a proposal for the reconfiguration of NHS
services.         2     Until notified that the Secretary of State has
finished considering the proposal, the NHS commissioning body must not take
further steps in relation to a proposal except to such extent (if any) as may
be permitted by the direction.         3     Once notified that the Secretary
of State has finished considering the proposal, the NHS commissioning body
must give effect to any decision of the Secretary of State under paragraph
3(2)(a)  in relation to the proposal.           Power to require consideration
of proposals for reconfiguration   5       1     The Secretary of State may
direct an NHS commissioning body to consider a reconfiguration of NHS
services.         2     The Secretary of State must publish any direction
under this paragraph, together with an explanation of the reasons for giving
it.           Duties to provide information and other assistance   6     An
NHS commissioning body, NHS trust or NHS foundation trust must give the
Secretary of State any information or other assistance that the Secretary of
State requires it to give for the purposes of carrying out any functions under
this Schedule.       Guidance   7       1     The Secretary of State must
publish guidance for NHS commissioning bodies, NHS trusts and NHS foundation
trusts about—     a     the exercise of their functions under this Schedule,
and         b     how the Secretary of State proposes to exercise the
Secretary of State’s functions under this Schedule.             2     NHS
commissioning bodies, NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts must have regard to
any guidance published under sub- paragraph (1).

NHS trusts in England and removal of power to appoint trustees: consequential
amendments

Section 50

##### Value Added Tax Act 1994

1

In section 33D of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 (descriptions of charities
qualifying for VAT refunds), in subsection (4), before paragraph (a) insert—

1.za

an NHS trust in England,

.

##### Finance Act 2003

2

In section 67A of the Finance Act 2003 (acquisitions by certain health service
bodies), in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

2.ba

an NHS trust established under section 25 of the National Health Service Act
2006;

.

##### National Health Service Act 2006

3

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

4

In section 215 (trustees and property under section 222), in subsection
(3)(b), omit “paragraph 10 of Schedule 4, or”.

5

In section 217 (supplementary provisions about trusts), in subsection (1),
omit paragraph (h) (but not the “and” at the end).

6

In Schedule 4 (NHS trusts), in paragraph 12, omit sub-paragraph (2A).

##### National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006

7

In section 163 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 (trustees and
property under section 169) in subsection (3), omit “, or paragraph 10 of
Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006”.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

8

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

9

In section 112 (transitional provision relating to abolition of NHS trusts
etc), in subsection (5)(b), omit the words from “(whether because” to the end.

10

Omit section 180 (repeal of provisions on authorisation for NHS foundation
trusts).

11

In section 200 (care trusts), omit subsection (15).

12

In Schedule 13, in paragraph 10 (saving provision: general duty of regulator),
omit sub-paragraph (2).

13

Omit Schedule 14 (abolition of NHS trusts in England: consequential
amendments).

##### Finance Act 2012

14

In section 216 of the Finance Act 2012 (health service bodies), omit
subsections (5) and (6).

##### Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014

15

The Local Audit and Accountability Act 2014 is amended as follows.

16

In section 3 (general requirements for accounts), for subsection (9)
substitute—

16.9

In this Act “ health service body ” means—

16.9.a

an integrated care board;

16.9.b

an NHS trust all or most of whose hospitals, establishments and facilities are
situated in England.

17

In section 4 (general requirements for audit), at the end insert—

17.6

In relation to an NHS trust, “ accounts ” means the annual accounts prepared
under paragraph  11A  of Schedule 4 to the National Health Service Act 2006.

18

In section 8 (procedure for appointment), in subsection (4), at the end
insert—

18.d

in the case of an NHS trust, it publishes the notice in such manner as it
thinks is likely to bring the notice to the attention of persons to whom the
trust provides services for the purposes of the health service in England.

19

In section 10 (functions of auditor panel), in subsection (10), at the end
insert—

19.d

in the case of an NHS trust, it publishes the advice in such manner as it
thinks is likely to bring the advice to the attention of persons to whom the
trust provides services for the purposes of the health service in England.

20

In section 12 (failure to appoint local auditor), in subsections (1) and (2),
for “a clinical commissioning group,” substitute  “a health service body” .

21

21.1

Section 13 (failure of clinical commissioning group to appoint local auditor)
is amended as follows.

21.2

In the heading, for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “health service
bodies” .

21.3

In subsections (1) and (2), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute
“health service body” .

21.4

In subsection (4)—

21.4.a

in paragraph (a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “health
service body” ;

21.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “group” substitute  “health service body” .

21.5

In subsection (5)(a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “health
service body” .

21.6

In subsection (6)—

21.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “health
service body” ;

21.6.b

in paragraph (b), for “group” substitute  “health service body” .

21.7

In subsection (7), for “clinical commissioning group” substitute  “health
service body” .

22

In section 21 (general duties of auditors of accounts of health service
bodies), after subsection (2) insert—

22.2A

In auditing the accounts of an NHS trust a local auditor must, by examination
of the accounts and otherwise, be satisfied—

22.2A.a

that the accounts present a true and fair view, and comply with the
requirements of the enactments that apply to them,

22.2A.b

that proper practices have been observed in the preparation of the accounts,
and

22.2A.c

that the NHS trust has made proper arrangements for securing economy,
efficiency and effectiveness in its use of resources.

23

In section 30 (unlawful expenditure or activity of health service bodies), in
subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

23.b

notify NHS England of the matter.

24

In section 43 (orders and regulations), in subsection (6), omit paragraphs (b)
and (c).

25

In section 44 (interpretation), in the definition of “accounts”, for “(5)”
substitute  “(6)” .

26

Omit section 47 (application to NHS trusts and trustees).

27

In Schedule 2 (relevant authorities), after paragraph 23 insert—

27.23A

An NHS trust all or most of whose hospitals, establishments and facilities are
situated in England.

28

In Schedule 5 (eligibility and regulation of local auditors), in paragraph 5,
in the modified section 1214 of the Companies Act 2006—

28.a

in subsection (1), after “(3),” insert  “(3A),” ;

28.b

after subsection (3) insert—

28.b.3A

This subsection applies if—

28.b.3A.a

the relevant authority is an NHS trust, and

28.b.3A.b

P is a director of that NHS trust.

29

29.1

Schedule 7 (reports and recommendations) is amended as follows.

29.2

In paragraph 2, in sub-paragraph (3)(d), for “clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “health service body” .

29.3

In paragraph 3, in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for “clinical commissioning group”
substitute  “health service body” .

29.4

In paragraph 4, in sub-paragraph (8), at the end insert—

29.4.d

in the case of an NHS trust, it publishes the notice in such manner as it
thinks is likely to bring the notice to the attention of persons to whom the
trust provides services for the purposes of the health service in England.

##### Finance Act 2015

30

In section 66 of the Finance Act 2015 (VAT refunds to certain charities), omit
subsection (6).

##### NHS (Charitable Trusts Etc) Act 2016

31

31.1

Schedule 1 to the NHS (Charitable Trusts Etc) Act 2016 is amended as follows.

31.2

In paragraph 4(b), omit paragraph (ii) (including the “and” at the end).

31.3

Omit paragraph 14.

31.4

In paragraph 18, omit paragraphs (f) and (h).

31.5

Omit paragraph 19.

Trust special administrators: NHS trusts and NHS foundation trusts

Section 70

##### Amendments about trust special administrators

1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

2

For section 65B substitute—

######### NHS trusts: appointment of trust special administrator

2.65B

2.65B.1

NHS England may make an order in accordance with this section authorising the
appointment of a trust special administrator to exercise the functions of the
chair and directors of an NHS trust to which this Chapter applies.

2.65B.2

NHS England—

2.65B.2.a

must make an order under subsection  (1)  if required to do so by the Care
Quality Commission, and

2.65B.2.b

may otherwise make an order under subsection  (1)  only if—

2.65B.2.b.i

NHS England considers it appropriate to do so in the interests of the health
service, and

2.65B.2.b.ii

the Secretary of State has approved the making of the order.

2.65B.3

The Care Quality Commission may require NHS England to make an order under
subsection  (1)  only if it is satisfied that there is a serious failure by
the NHS trust to provide services that are of sufficient quality to be
provided under this Act.

2.65B.4

Before requiring NHS England to make an order under subsection  (1)  the Care
Quality Commission must—

2.65B.4.a

consult the Secretary of State and NHS England, and

2.65B.4.b

having done that, consult—

2.65B.4.b.i

the trust,

2.65B.4.b.ii

any integrated care board in whose area the trust has hospitals,
establishments or facilities, and

2.65B.4.b.iii

any person to which the trust provides goods or services under this Act and
which the Commission considers it appropriate to consult.

2.65B.5

Before making an order under subsection  (1)  in a case where it is not
required to do so by the Care Quality Commission, NHS England must consult—

2.65B.5.a

the trust,

2.65B.5.b

any integrated care board in whose area the trust has hospitals,
establishments or facilities,

2.65B.5.c

any other person to which the trust provides goods or services under this Act
and which NHS England considers it appropriate to consult, and

2.65B.5.d

the Care Quality Commission.

2.65B.6

An order under subsection  (1)  must specify the date when the appointment is
to take effect, which must be within the period of 5 working days beginning
with the day on which the order is made.

2.65B.7

NHS England must lay before Parliament (with the statutory instrument
containing the order) a report stating the reasons for making the order.

2.65B.8

If an order is made under subsection  (1) , NHS England must—

2.65B.8.a

appoint a person as the trust special administrator with effect from the day
specified in the order, and

2.65B.8.b

publish the name of the person appointed.

2.65B.9

A person appointed as a trust special administrator holds and vacates office
in accordance with the terms of the appointment.

2.65B.10

NHS England may pay remuneration and expenses to a trust special administrator
appointed under this section.

######### Care Quality Commission report on safety and quality of services

2.65BA

2.65BA.1

This section applies where the Care Quality Commission require NHS England to
make an order under section  65B (1)  in relation to an NHS trust.

2.65BA.2

The Care Quality Commission must, as soon as reasonably practicable after the
making of the order, provide to NHS England and the Secretary of State a
report on the safety and quality of the services that the trust provides under
this Act.

3

3.1

Section 65D (NHS foundation trusts: appointment of trust special
administrator) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsections (1) and (1A)(b) and (c), for “the regulator”, in each place it
occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

3.3

In subsection (2), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

3.4

After subsection (2) insert—

3.4.2A

Where NHS England is not required to make an order under this section as a
result of subsection (1A), it may do so only if the Secretary of State has
approved the making of the order.

3.5

In subsection (3), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

3.6

In subsection (3A)—

3.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

3.6.b

in paragraph (b), omit sub-paragraph (ii) (but not the “and” at the end).

3.7

For subsection (4) substitute—

3.7.4

Before making an order under this section in a case where it is not required
to do so as a result of subsection (1A), NHS England must consult—

3.7.4.a

the trust,

3.7.4.b

any person to which the trust provides services under this Act and which NHS
England considers it appropriate to consult, and

3.7.4.c

the Care Quality Commission.

3.8

In subsection (6), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

3.9

In subsection (7), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

3.10

For subsection (12) substitute—

3.10.12

NHS England may pay remuneration and expenses to a trust special administrator
appointed under this section.

4

4.1

Section 65DA (objective of trust special administration) is amended as
follows.

4.2

In subsection (4)(c), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

4.3

In subsection (5), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

4.4

In subsection (5A), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

4.5

In subsection (6)—

4.5.a

for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS England” ;

4.5.b

omit paragraph (b).

4.6

In subsection (7), for “The Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

4.7

In subsection (8), for “the Board” substitute  “NHS England” .

5

5.1

Section 65F (draft report) is amended as follows.

5.2

For subsections (1) to (3) substitute—

5.2.1

A trust special administrator appointed in relation to an NHS trust must,
within the period of 65 working days beginning with the day on which the
administrator’s appointment takes effect—

5.2.1.a

provide NHS England and the Secretary of State with a draft report
recommending any action that NHS England or the Secretary of State should take
in relation to the trust, and

5.2.1.b

publish a copy of that draft report.

5.2.1A

A trust special administrator appointed in relation to an NHS foundation trust
must, within the period of 65 working days beginning with the day on which the
administrator’s appointment takes effect—

5.2.1A.a

provide NHS England with a draft report recommending the action that NHS
England should take in relation to the trust, and

5.2.1A.b

publish a copy of that draft report,

unless unable to obtain the statements required by subsections  (1B)  and
(1C) .

5.2.1B

A trust special administrator may not provide a draft report under subsection
(1A) —

5.2.1B.a

without having obtained a statement from each commissioner that the
commissioner considers that the recommendation in the draft report—

5.2.1B.a.i

would achieve the objective set out in section 65DA(1)(a), and

5.2.1B.a.ii

would do so without harming essential services provided for the purposes of
the NHS by any other NHS foundation trust or NHS trust that provides services
under this Act to the commissioner, or

5.2.1B.b

where the administrator is unable to obtain a statement to that effect from
one or more of the commissioners (other than NHS England), without having
obtained a statement to that effect from NHS England.

5.2.1C

A trust special administrator may not provide a draft report under subsection
(1A)  without having obtained a statement from the Care Quality Commission
that it considers that the recommendation in the draft report would achieve
that part of the objective set out in section 65DA(1)(aa).

5.2.2

When preparing a draft report under subsection  (1)  or  (1A) , the
administrator must consult—

5.2.2.a

any person to which the trust provides goods or services under this Act and
which NHS England directs the administrator to consult, and

5.2.2.b

the Care Quality Commission.

5.2.3

After receiving a draft report under subsection  (1)  or  (1A) , NHS England
must lay it before Parliament.

5.3

Omit subsections (4), (5) and (5A).

5.4

For subsection (6) substitute—

5.4.6

Where NHS England decides not to provide to the administrator a statement to
the effect mentioned in subsection  (1B)(b) , NHS England must—

5.4.6.a

give a notice of the reasons for its decision to the administrator,

5.4.6.b

publish the notice, and

5.4.6.c

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

5.4.6A

Where the Care Quality Commission decides not to provide to the administrator
a statement to the effect mentioned in subsection  (1C) , the Commission must—

5.4.6A.a

give a notice of the reasons for its decision to the administrator and to NHS
England,

5.4.6A.b

publish the notice, and

5.4.6A.c

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

6

6.1

Section 65G (consultation plan) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (4)(b) for “the Board”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“NHS England” .

6.3

For subsection (5) substitute—

6.3.5

Where NHS England decides not to provide to the administrator a statement to
the effect mentioned in subsection (4)(b), NHS England must—

6.3.5.a

give a notice of the reasons for its decision to the administrator,

6.3.5.b

publish the notice, and

6.3.5.c

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

6.3.5A

Where the Care Quality Commission decides not to provide to the administrator
a statement to the effect mentioned in subsection (4A), the Commission must—

6.3.5A.a

give a notice of the reasons for its decision to the administrator and to NHS
England,

6.3.5A.b

publish the notice, and

6.3.5A.c

lay a copy of it before Parliament.

7

7.1

Section 65H (consultation requirements) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (7)—

7.2.a

omit paragraph (za);

7.2.b

in paragraph (b), omit “other”;

7.2.c

for paragraphs (c) and (d) substitute—

7.2.c.c

the member of Parliament for any constituency, if required by directions given
by NHS England;

7.2.c.d

any other person specified in a direction given by NHS England.

7.3

Omit subsection (8).

7.4

In subsection (9)(a), omit “the Board and”.

7.5

After subsection (9) insert—

7.5.9A

NHS England may direct the administrator to hold a meeting to seek a response
from any person.

7.6

For subsection (10) substitute—

7.6.10

The Secretary of State may direct NHS England as to the persons from whom it
should direct the administrator to—

7.6.10.a

request a written response (for NHS England’s powers of direction, see
subsection (7)(c) and (d));

7.6.10.b

seek a response by holding a meeting (for NHS England’s power of direction,
see subsection (9A)).

7.7

Omit subsection (10A).

7.8

In subsection (12), omit paragraph (b) and the “and” before it.

7.9

Omit subsection (13).

8

8.1

Section 65I (final report) is amended as follows.

8.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

8.2.1

A trust special administrator appointed in relation to an NHS trust must,
within the period of 15 working days beginning with the end of the
consultation period, provide NHS England and the Secretary of State with a
final report stating any action that the administrator recommends that NHS
England or Secretary of State should take in relation to the trust.

8.2.1A

A trust special administrator appointed in relation to an NHS foundation trust
must, within the period of 15 working days beginning with the end of the
consultation period, provide NHS England with a final report stating the
action that the administrator recommends that NHS England should take in
relation to the trust.

8.3

In subsection (2), after “the final report” insert  “mentioned in subsection
(1) or (1A)” .

8.4

In subsection (3), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “NHS England” .

8.5

Omit subsection (4).

9

9.1

Section 65J (power to extend time) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1)—

9.2.a

in paragraph (a) after “section 65F(1)” insert  “or  (1A) ” ;

9.2.b

in paragraph (c), after section “65I(1)” insert  “or  (1A) ” .

9.3

In subsection (2), for “the Secretary of State”, in both places it occurs,
substitute  “NHS England” .

9.4

Omit subsection (5).

10

In the italic heading before section 65K for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS
England” .

11

For section 65K substitute—

######### Decision of NHS England or Secretary of State in case of NHS trust

11.65K

11.65K.1

Within the period of 20 working days beginning with the day on which NHS
England receives a final report under section 65I relating to an NHS trust,
NHS England must decide what (if any) action to take in relation to the trust.

11.65K.2

Within the period of 20 working days beginning with the day on which the
Secretary of State receives a final report under section 65I relating to an
NHS trust, the Secretary of State must decide what (if any) action to take in
relation to the trust.

11.65K.3

NHS England and the Secretary of State must consult one another before taking
the decision under subsection (1) or (2).

11.65K.4

After taking a decision under subsection (1) or (2) NHS England or the
Secretary of State (as the case may be) must, as soon as reasonably
practicable—

11.65K.4.a

publish a notice of the decision and of the reasons for it;

11.65K.4.b

lay a copy of the notice before Parliament.

12

12.1

Section 65KA (regulator’s decision in case of NHS foundation trust) is amended
as follows.

12.2

In the heading for “Regulator’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

12.3

In each of subsections (1) and (3) to (5), for “the regulator”, in each place
it occurs, substitute  “NHS England” .

12.4

In subsection (6), for “The regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

13

13.1

Section 65KB (Secretary of State’s response to regulator’s decision) is
amended as follows.

13.2

In the heading for “regulator’s” substitute  “NHS England’s” .

13.3

In subsections (1)(c) and (2)(b), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS
England” .

14

In section 65KC (action following Secretary of State’s rejection of final
report), in subsections (1) and (2), for “the regulator” substitute  “NHS
England” .

15

15.1

In section 65KD (Secretary of State’s response to resubmitted report) is
amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (3), for “(4) to” substitute  “(5), (6) and” .

15.3

Omit subsection (4).

15.4

For subsections (5) and (6) substitute—

15.4.5

If the notice states that an integrated care board has failed to discharge a
function—

15.4.5.a

the board is to be treated for the purposes of this Act as having failed to
discharge the function,

15.4.5.b

the Secretary of State may exercise the functions of NHS England under section
14Z61 (2) ,  (3)(a)  and  (5)(a) , and

15.4.5.c

NHS England may not exercise any of its functions under section  14Z61 .

15.4.6

Where, by virtue of subsection (5)(b), the Secretary of State exercises the
function of NHS England under section  14Z61 (3)(a) , the integrated care
board to which the direction is given must cooperate with the Secretary of
State.

15.5

Omit subsections (7) and (8).

16

16.1

Section 65L (trusts coming out of administration) is amended as follows.

16.2

For subsections (1) to (2B) substitute—

16.2.1

Subsection  (2)  applies, in relation to an NHS trust, if NHS England and the
Secretary of State both decide under section 65K not to dissolve the trust.

16.2.2

NHS England must make an order specifying a date when the following come to an
end—

16.2.2.a

the appointment of the trust special administrator, and

16.2.2.b

the suspension of the chair and directors of the trust.

16.2.2A

Subsection  (2B)  applies, in relation to an NHS foundation trust, if—

16.2.2A.a

the Secretary of State decides under section 65KD(9) not to dissolve the
trust, or

16.2.2A.b

the Secretary of State decides under section 65KB(1) or 65KD(1) that the
Secretary of State is satisfied of the matters mentioned there, and the action
recommended in the final report is to do something other than dissolve the
trust.

16.2.2B

NHS England must make an order specifying a date when the following come to an
end—

16.2.2B.a

the appointment of the trust special administrator, and

16.2.2B.b

the suspension of the governors, chair and directors of the trust.

16.3

In subsection (7), for “the regulator”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“NHS England” .

17

In section 65LA (trusts to be dissolved), in subsection (3), for “The
regulator” substitute  “NHS England” .

18

18.1

Section 65M (replacement of trust special administrator) is amended as
follows.

18.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

18.2.1

If a trust special administrator ceases to hold office for any reason before
an order is made under section 65L (2)  or  (2B)  or the trust is dissolved,
NHS England must—

18.2.1.a

appoint another person as the trust special administrator, and

18.2.1.b

publish the name of the person appointed.

18.3

In subsection (2), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “NHS England” .

18.4

Omit subsection (3).

19

19.1

Section 65N (guidance) is amended as follows.

19.2

In subsection (1), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “NHS England” .

19.3

In subsection (1A), omit paragraph (b).

19.4

In subsection (3A), for “the Secretary of State” substitute  “NHS England” .

19.5

Omit subsection (4).

20

In section 65O (interpretation of Chapter), in subsection (1), in the
definition of “trust special administrator”, for “65B(6)(a)” substitute  “ 65B
(8)(a) ” .

21

In section 272 (orders, regulations, rules and directions), in subsection
(5)(ab), after “65L(2)” insert  “, (2B)” .

##### Consequential amendments

###### National Health Service Act 2006

22

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

23

In section 13Q (public involvement and consultation by NHS England), for
subsection (4) substitute—

23.4

This section does not require NHS England to make arrangements in relation to
matters to which a trust special administrator’s draft or final report under
section 65F or 65I relates before—

23.4.a

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS trust, NHS
England and the Secretary of State have made their decisions under section
65K(1) and (2), or

23.4.b

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS foundation trust,
the Secretary of State is satisfied as mentioned in section 65KB(1) or 65KD(1)
or makes a decision under section 65KD(9).

24

In section 242 (public involvement and consultation by NHS trusts), for
subsection (6) substitute—

24.6

This section does not require a body to make arrangements in relation to
matters to which a trust special administrator’s draft or final report under
section 65F or 65I relates before—

24.6.a

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS trust, NHS
England and the Secretary of State have made their decisions under section
65K(1) and (2), or

24.6.b

in a case where the administrator’s report relates to an NHS foundation trust,
the Secretary of State is satisfied as mentioned in section 65KB(1) or 65KD(1)
or makes a decision under section 65KD(9).

###### Health and Social Care Act 2008

25

In section 29A of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (warning notice: quality
of health care), in subsection (5), for paragraph (b) substitute—

25.b

must consider in particular whether to require NHS England to make an order
under section  65B (1)  or 65D(2) of the National Health Service Act 2006
(appointment of trust special administrator).

References to functions: treatment of delegation arrangements etc

Section 72

##### Local Government Act 1974

1

In section 26 of the Local Government Act 1974 (matters subject to
investigation), in subsection (1), for paragraph (d) substitute—

1.d

an alleged or apparent failure in a service provided by the authority in the
exercise of public health functions of the Secretary of State (within the
meaning of the National Health Service Act 2006) in pursuance of arrangements
made under section 7A,  65Z5  or 75 of the National Health Service Act 2006;

.

##### Children Act 1989

2

In section 105 of the Children Act 1989 (interpretation), for subsection (7B)
substitute—

2.7B

References in this Act to arrangements made by NHS England or an integrated
care board under the National Health Service Act 2006 include references to
arrangements so made in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue
of any provision of that Act.

##### National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990

3

In section 47 of the National Health Service and Community Care Act 1990
(assessment of needs for community care services), in subsection (3), for
paragraph (za) substitute—

3.za

that there may be a need for the provision of services to that person pursuant
to arrangements made under the National Health Service Act 2006 by such
integrated care board as may be determined in accordance with regulations
(including such arrangements made by it in the exercise of functions of
another person by virtue of any provision of that Act),

.

##### Adoption and Children Act 2002

4

In section 4 of the Adoption and Children Act 2002 (assessments etc for
adoption support services), in subsection (9), for paragraph (za) substitute—

4.za

there may be a need for the provision to that person of services that may be
provided pursuant to arrangements made by an integrated care board under the
National Health Service Act 2006 (including such arrangements made by an
integrated care board in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue
of any provision of that Act),

.

##### Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards) Act 2003

5

In section 113 of the Health and Social Care (Community Health and Standards)
Act 2003 (complaints about health care), in subsection (1)—

5.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “(including any function that consists of
exercising the function of another person)” ;

5.b

in paragraph (c), omit “section 75 of the National Health Service Act 2006
or”;

5.c

omit paragraph (d).

##### National Health Service Act 2006

6

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

7

In section 13Z4 (interpretation of Chapter A1 of Part 2), omit subsections (2)
to (4).

8

In section 73A (appointment of directors of public health), in subsection (1),
after paragraph (c) insert—

8.ca

the exercise by the authority of any public health functions of the Secretary
of State in pursuance of arrangements made with another body by virtue of
section  65Z5  or 75,

.

9

In section 73B (exercise of public health functions of local authorities:
further provision), in subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

9.ca

any public health functions of the Secretary of State exercisable by the
authority in pursuance of arrangements made with another body by virtue of
section  65Z5  or 75,

.

10

In section 73C (complaints about exercise of public health functions by local
authorities), in subsection (1), after paragraph (c) insert—

10.ca

anything done by a local authority in the exercise of public health functions
of the Secretary of State in pursuance of arrangements made with another body
by virtue of section  65Z5  or 75;

.

11

In section 223K (payments in respect of quality), in subsection (8), for the
definition of “relevant services” substitute—

“ relevant services ” means services provided in pursuance of arrangements
made by the integrated care board in the exercise of its functions by virtue
of this Act;

.

12

In section 244 (review and scrutiny by local authorities), in subsection (3),
in the definition of “relevant health service provider”, for paragraph (a)
(but not the “and” at the end) substitute—

provides services in pursuance of arrangements made by virtue of this Act,

.

13

In section 252A (role of NHS England and clinical commissioning groups in
respect of emergencies), in subsection (10), for the definition of “service
arrangements” substitute—

“ service arrangements ” means arrangements made by virtue of this Act for the
provision of services.

14

In section 253 (emergency powers), in subsection (1A), in paragraph (d), for
sub-paragraphs (i) to (iv) substitute  “by virtue of this Act” .

##### Local Government and Public Involvement in Health Act 2007

15

After section 116B of the Local Government and Public Involvement in Health
Act 2007 insert—

######### Sections 116 to 116B: references to functions

15.116C

Section  275A  of the National Health Service Act 2006 (references to
functions of a person to include delegated functions etc) applies for the
purposes of sections 116 to 116B of this Act as it applies for the purposes of
that Act.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2008

16

In section 97 of the Health and Social Care Act 2008 (general interpretation
of Part), for subsection (2A) substitute—

16.2A

Any reference in this Part to health care commissioned by NHS England or by an
integrated care board is a reference to health care provided by other persons
pursuant to arrangements made by NHS England or an integrated care board
(including arrangements made by it in the exercise of functions of another
person by virtue of any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006).

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

17

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

18

In section 197 (participation of NHS England in Health and Wellbeing Board),
in the definition of “commissioning functions” in subsection (6), at the end
insert  “(including any functions of NHS England in arranging for the
provision of such services in the exercise of functions of another person)” .

19

In section 199 (supply of information to Health and Wellbeing Boards), omit
subsection (4).

20

In section 234 (quality standards), in subsection (11), for the definition of
“NHS services” substitute—

“ NHS services ” means services the provision of which is arranged by NHS
England or an integrated care board (including services the provision of which
is arranged by it in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue of
any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006);

.

21

In section 237 (advice, guidance, information and recommendations), in
subsection (10), for paragraphs (b) and (c) substitute—

21.b

the exercise by an authority of the functions of any other person by virtue of
any provision of that Act.

22

In section 250 (powers to publish information standards), in subsection (7),
for the definition of “NHS services”, substitute—

“ NHS services ” means services the provision of which is arranged by NHS
England or an integrated care board (including services the provision of which
is arranged by it in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue of
any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006);

.

23

In section 263 (code of practice on confidential information), after
subsection (7) insert—

23.8

In this section “ NHS services ” means services the provision of which is
arranged by NHS England or an integrated care board (including services the
provision of which is arranged by it in the exercise of functions of another
person by virtue of any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006).

24

In section 274 (powers of Secretary of State or Board to give directions), in
subsection (9), at the appropriate place insert—

“ NHS services ” means services the provision of which is arranged by NHS
England or an integrated care board (including services the provision of which
is arranged by it in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue of
any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006);

.

25

In section 290 (duties to co-operate), in subsection (2), at the end insert
“(including any functions that consist of exercising the functions of other
persons)” .

  The NHS payment scheme

Section 77

1

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

2

In section 97 (conditions of licences for health care service providers), in
subsection (1)(g), for “the national tariff (see section 116)” substitute
“the NHS payment scheme (see section  114A )” .

3

In Part 3, for Chapter 4 substitute—

######## The NHS payment scheme

######### The NHS payment scheme

3.114A

3.114A.1

NHS England must publish a document, to be known as “ the NHS payment scheme
”, containing rules for determining the price that is to be payable by a
commissioner—

3.114A.1.a

for the provision of health care services for the purposes of the NHS;

3.114A.1.b

for the provision of services in pursuance of arrangements made by NHS England
or an integrated care board in the exercise of any public health functions of
the Secretary of State, within the meaning of the National Health Service Act
2006, by virtue of any provision of that Act.

3.114A.2

The commissioner and the provider of services mentioned in subsection  (1)
must comply with rules under that subsection.

3.114A.3

Rules under subsection  (1)  may, in particular—

3.114A.3.a

specify prices;

3.114A.3.b

specify amounts, formulae or other matters on the basis of which prices are to
be determined;

3.114A.3.c

provide for prices to be determined for, or by reference to, components of
services or groups of services;

3.114A.3.d

make different provision for different services or provision for some services
but not others;

3.114A.3.e

make different provision for the same service by reference to different
circumstances or areas, different descriptions of provider, or other factors
relevant to the provision of the service or the arrangements for its
provision;

3.114A.3.f

confer a discretion on the commissioner of a service or on NHS England.

3.114A.4

Rules under subsection  (1)  may allow or require a price to be agreed between
the commissioner and the provider of a service.

3.114A.5

Rules made by virtue of subsection  (4)  may—

3.114A.5.a

make provision about how the price is to be agreed;

3.114A.5.b

allow the agreement to make any provision that could be made by rules by
virtue of subsection  (3) ;

3.114A.5.c

provide for the publication by the commissioner, the provider or NHS England
of information relevant to the agreement.

3.114A.6

For the purpose of securing that the prices payable for the provision of
services mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)  or  (b)  result in a fair level of
pay for providers of those services, NHS England must, in exercising functions
under subsection  (1) , have regard to—

3.114A.6.a

differences in the costs incurred in providing those services to persons of
different descriptions, and

3.114A.6.b

differences between providers with respect to the range of those services that
they provide.

3.114A.7

The NHS payment scheme may contain rules relating to the making of payments to
the provider of a service for the provision of that service.

3.114A.8

The NHS payment scheme may contain guidance as to the application of rules
under subsection  (1) .

3.114A.9

A commissioner of a service mentioned in subsection  (1)  must have regard to
any such guidance.

3.114A.10

The NHS payment scheme has effect for the period specified in the NHS payment
scheme or, where a new edition of the NHS payment scheme takes effect before
the end of that period, until that new edition takes effect.

######### The NHS payment scheme: enforcement

3.114B

Where the commissioner of a service fails to comply with rules contained in
the NHS payment scheme, NHS England may direct the commissioner to take steps
specified in the direction, within a period specified in the direction—

3.114B.a

to secure that the failure does not continue or recur, or

3.114B.b

to secure that the position is (so far as practicable) restored to what it
would have been if the failure was not occurring or had not occurred.

######### The NHS payment scheme: impact assessment and consultation

3.114C

3.114C.1

Before publishing the NHS payment scheme, NHS England must—

3.114C.1.a

carry out an assessment of the likely impact of the proposed scheme, or

3.114C.1.b

publish a statement setting out its reasons for concluding that such
assessment is not needed.

3.114C.2

Before publishing the NHS payment scheme, NHS England must consult the
following—

3.114C.2.a

each integrated care board;

3.114C.2.b

each relevant provider;

3.114C.2.c

such other persons as NHS England considers appropriate.

3.114C.3

NHS England must give those persons a notice—

3.114C.3.a

describing the proposed NHS payment scheme,

3.114C.3.b

setting out any impact assessment carried out under subsection  (1)(a) , and

3.114C.3.c

specifying when the period within which representations may be made about the
proposed NHS payment scheme (“the consultation period”) will come to an end.

3.114C.4

The consultation period is the period of 28 days beginning with the day after
that on which the notice is published.

3.114C.5

NHS England must publish the notice given under subsection  (2) .

3.114C.6

If, having consulted under this section—

3.114C.6.a

NHS England decides to make amendments of the proposed NHS payment scheme that
are, in its opinion, significant, and

3.114C.6.b

it would, in NHS England’s opinion, be unfair to make the amendments without
further consultation,

NHS England must consult again under this section.

3.114C.7

Subsection  (6)  does not apply where section  114D  applies.

3.114C.8

In this section “ relevant provider ” means—

3.114C.8.a

a licence holder, or

3.114C.8.b

another person, of a prescribed description, that provides—

3.114C.8.b.i

health care services for the purposes of the NHS, or

3.114C.8.b.ii

services in pursuance of arrangements made by NHS England or an integrated
care board by virtue of section 7A or 7B of the National Health Service Act
2006 (Secretary of State’s public health functions).

######### Objections to proposed NHS payment scheme

3.114D

3.114D.1

This section applies where—

3.114D.1.a

within the consultation period under section  114C , NHS England receives
objections to the proposed NHS payment scheme from one or more integrated care
boards or relevant providers, and

3.114D.1.b

either or both of the following apply—

3.114D.1.b.i

the objection percentage for integrated care boards exceeds the prescribed
percentage;

3.114D.1.b.ii

the objection percentage for relevant providers exceeds the prescribed
percentage.

3.114D.2

In subsection  (1)(b)  the “objection percentage” is the proportion (expressed
as a percentage) of integrated care boards or (as the case may be) relevant
providers that objected.

3.114D.3

NHS England must consult such persons as appear to NHS England to be
representative of the integrated care boards or relevant providers from whom
objections were received.

3.114D.4

If, having complied with subsection  (3) —

3.114D.4.a

NHS England decides to make amendments of the proposed NHS payment scheme that
are, in its opinion, significant, and

3.114D.4.b

it would, in NHS England’s opinion, be unfair to make the amendments without
further consultation,

NHS England must consult again under section  114C .

3.114D.5

If, having complied with subsection  (3) , NHS England decides not to amend
the proposed NHS payment scheme, it may publish the scheme but, before doing
so, must—

3.114D.5.a

publish a notice stating that decision and setting out the reasons for it, and

3.114D.5.b

send a copy of the notice to—

3.114D.5.b.i

the persons consulted under subsection  (3) , and

3.114D.5.b.ii

the integrated care boards or relevant providers from whom objections were
received.

######### Amendments of the NHS payment scheme

3.114E

3.114E.1

NHS England may amend the NHS payment scheme during the period for which it
has effect, provided that, in the opinion of NHS England, the amendments are
not so significant as to require publication of a new edition of the NHS
payment scheme.

3.114E.2

In deciding whether the amendments are so significant as to require the
publication of a new edition of the NHS payment scheme, NHS England must have
regard to—

3.114E.2.a

the proportion of integrated care boards that would be affected by the
proposed amendments;

3.114E.2.b

the proportion of relevant providers that would be affected by the proposed
amendments;

3.114E.2.c

the impact that the proposed amendments would have on integrated care boards
and relevant providers that would be affected by them;

3.114E.2.d

whether any integrated care boards or relevant providers would be
disproportionately affected by the proposed amendments;

3.114E.2.e

the amount of any increase or decrease in prices that would result from the
proposed amendments.

3.114E.3

If NHS England amends the NHS payment scheme, it must publish the NHS payment
scheme as amended.

3.114E.4

Before amending the NHS payment scheme, NHS England must, in accordance with
subsections  (5)  to  (7) , consult the following about the proposed
amendments—

3.114E.4.a

any integrated care boards that would be affected by the proposed amendments;

3.114E.4.b

any relevant providers that would be affected by the proposed amendments;

3.114E.4.c

such other persons as NHS England considers appropriate.

3.114E.5

NHS England must publish a notice specifying—

3.114E.5.a

the proposed amendments, and

3.114E.5.b

when the period within which representations may be made about the proposed
amendments (“the consultation period”) will come to an end.

3.114E.6

The consultation period is the period of 28 days beginning with the day after
that on which the notice is published.

3.114E.7

NHS England must send a copy of the notice to each of the persons to be
consulted under subsection  (4) .

######### Interpretation

3.114F

In this Chapter—

      “ commissioner ”, in relation to a service, means the person who
arranges for the provision of the service;           “ the NHS payment scheme
” means the document published under section  114A (1) ;           “ relevant
provider ” has the meaning given by section  114C (8) .

4

In section 304 (regulations, orders and directions), in subsection (5), for
paragraph (g) substitute—

4.g

regulations under section  114D (1)(b)(i)  or  (ii)  (percentage to be
prescribed in cases of objections to proposals for NHS payment scheme);

.

  Patient choice: undertakings by integrated care boards

Section 78

  After Schedule 1 to the National Health Service Act 2006 insert—
SCHEDULE 1ZA   Patient choice: undertakings by integrated care boards
Section 6F   Introductory   1     This Schedule makes further provision about
undertakings under section 6F.       Procedure   2       1     NHS England
must publish a procedure for entering into undertakings.         2     NHS
England may revise the procedure and, if it does so, NHS England must publish
the procedure as revised.         3     NHS England must consult such persons
as it considers appropriate before publishing or revising the procedure.
3       1     Where NHS England accepts an undertaking, NHS England must
publish the undertaking.         2     But NHS England must not under sub-
paragraph  (1)  publish any part of an undertaking which contains information
which it is satisfied is—     a     commercial information the disclosure of
which would, or might, significantly harm the legitimate business interests of
the person to whom it relates;         b     information relating to the
private affairs of an individual the disclosure of which would, or might,
significantly harm that person’s interests.               Variation of terms
4     The terms of an undertaking (including, in particular, the action
specified under it and the period so specified within which the action must be
taken) may be varied if both the integrated care board giving the undertaking
and NHS England agree.       Compliance certificates   5       1     Where NHS
England is satisfied that an undertaking has been complied with, NHS England
must issue a certificate to that effect (referred to in this Schedule as a “
compliance certificate ”).         2     An integrated care board which has
given an undertaking may at any time make an application to NHS England for a
compliance certificate.         3     The application must be made in such
form, and accompanied by such information, as NHS England requires.         4
NHS England must decide whether or not to issue a compliance certificate, and
give notice to the applicant of its decision, before the end of the period of
14 days beginning with the day after that on which the application is
received.           6       1     An appeal lies to the First-tier Tribunal
against a decision of NHS England to refuse an application for a compliance
certificate.         2     The grounds for an appeal under this paragraph are
that the decision was—     a     based on an error of fact,         b
wrong in law, or         c     unfair or unreasonable.             3     On an
appeal under this paragraph, the Tribunal may confirm NHS England’s decision
or direct that it is not to have effect.           Inaccurate, incomplete or
misleading information   7     Where NHS England is satisfied that an
integrated care board which has given an undertaking has supplied NHS England
with inaccurate, misleading or incorrect information in relation to the
undertaking—     a     NHS England may treat the integrated care board as
having failed to comply with the undertaking, and         b     if NHS England
decides so to treat the integrated care board, NHS England must by notice
revoke any certificate of compliance given to that integrated care board.

Removal of functions relating to competition etc

Section 84

##### Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986

1

In section 9E of the Company Directors Disqualification Act 1986
(disqualification for competition infringements: interpretation), in
subsection (2), omit paragraph (f).

##### Competition Act 1998

2

In section 54 of the Competition Act 1998 (list of regulators), in subsection
(1), omit paragraph (h).

##### Enterprise Act 2002

3

3.1

Section 136 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (investigations and reports on market
investigation references) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (7), omit paragraph (i).

3.3

In subsection (8), omit “, Monitor”.

##### Health and Social Care Act 2012

4

The Health and Social Care Act 2012 is amended as follows.

5

In section 74 (competition functions: supplementary), omit subsections (1) to
(6).

6

In section 288 (Monitor: duty to cooperate with Care Quality Commission), omit
subsection (3).

##### Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013

7

The Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013 is amended as follows.

8

In Schedule 4 (the Competition and Markets Authority), in paragraph 16(7),
omit paragraph (g).

9

In Schedule 14 (regulators: use of powers under the Competition Act 1998),
omit paragraphs 20 to 22.

##### Care Act 2014

10

In section 92 of the Care Act 2014 (care standards: false or misleading
information offence), omit subsections (7) and (8).

The Health Services Safety Investigations Body

Section 109

##### Constitution

###### Status

1

1.1

The HSSIB is not to be regarded—

1.1.a

as the servant or agent of the Crown, or

1.1.b

as enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the Crown.

1.2

The HSSIB’s property is not to be regarded—

1.2.a

as the property of the Crown, or

1.2.b

as property held on behalf of the Crown.

###### Membership

2

2.1

The HSSIB is to consist of—

2.1.a

a Chief Investigator appointed in accordance with paragraph  3 ,

2.1.b

other members appointed in accordance with paragraph  4 , and

2.1.c

a chair and at least four other members appointed by the Secretary of State.

2.2

The Chief Investigator is to be the chief executive of the HSSIB.

2.3

The HSSIB must have more non-executive than executive members.

2.4

In this Schedule—

2.4.a

references to executive members of the HSSIB are references to the members
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  and  (b) , and

2.4.b

references to non-executive members of the HSSIB are references to the members
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) (c) .

###### The Chief Investigator: appointment and status

3

3.1

The Chief Investigator is to be appointed by the non-executive members with
the consent of the Secretary of State.

3.2

The Chief Investigator is to be an employee of the HSSIB.

###### Other executive members: appointment and status

4

4.1

The other executive members of the HSSIB are to be appointed by the non-
executive members.

4.2

The non-executive members may not appoint more than five other executive
members without the consent of the Secretary of State.

4.3

The other executive members are to be employees of the HSSIB.

###### Non-executive members: tenure

5

5.1

A person holds and vacates office as a non-executive member of the HSSIB in
accordance with that person’s terms of appointment (subject to the following
provisions of this paragraph).

5.2

A person may at any time resign from office as a non-executive member by
giving notice to the Secretary of State.

5.3

The Secretary of State may at any time remove a person from office as a non-
executive member on any of the following grounds—

5.3.a

incapacity,

5.3.b

misbehaviour, or

5.3.c

failure to carry out the person’s duties as a non-executive member.

5.4

The Secretary of State may suspend a person from office as a non-executive
member if it appears to the Secretary of State that there are or may be
grounds to remove the person from office under sub-paragraph  (3) .

5.5

A person may be appointed as a non-executive member for an initial term of up
to three years.

5.6

A person who has been appointed as a non-executive member for an initial term
may be re-appointed, but only for one further term of up to three years.

5.7

The further term must begin at the end of the initial term.

###### Non-executive members: suspension from office

6

6.1

This paragraph applies where a person is suspended under paragraph  5 (4) .

6.2

The Secretary of State must give notice of the decision to suspend to the
person.

6.3

The suspension takes effect on receipt by the person of the notice.

6.4

The notice may be—

6.4.a

delivered in person (in which case the person is taken to receive it when it
is delivered), or

6.4.b

sent by first class post to the person’s last known address (in which case the
person is taken to receive it on the third day after the day on which it is
posted).

6.5

The initial period of suspension must not exceed six months.

6.6

The Secretary of State may review the suspension at any time.

6.7

The Secretary of State—

6.7.a

must review the suspension if requested in writing by the person to do so, but

6.7.b

is not required to review the suspension before the end of the period of three
months beginning with the start of the initial period of suspension.

6.8

Following a review during a period of suspension, the Secretary of State may—

6.8.a

confirm the suspension,

6.8.b

revoke the suspension, or

6.8.c

suspend the person for another period of not more than six months beginning
with the expiry of the current period.

6.9

The Secretary of State must revoke the suspension if the Secretary of State—

6.9.a

decides that there are no grounds to remove the person from office under
paragraph  5 (3) , or

6.9.b

decides that there are grounds to do so but does not remove the person from
office under that provision.

7

7.1

Where a person is suspended from office as the chair under paragraph  5 (4) ,
the Secretary of State may appoint a non-executive member as interim chair to
exercise the chair’s functions.

7.2

Appointment as interim chair is for a term not exceeding the shorter of—

7.2.a

the period ending with either—

7.2.a.i

the appointment of a new chair, or

7.2.a.ii

the revocation or expiry of the existing chair’s suspension, and

7.2.b

the remainder of the interim chair’s term as a non-executive member.

7.3

Sub-paragraph  (4)  applies if—

7.3.a

a person’s initial term as interim chair is to cease as a result of the expiry
of the person’s initial term as a non-executive member, and

7.3.b

that person is to be re-appointed as a non-executive member.

7.4

The person may be re-appointed as interim chair for a further term determined
in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2) .

7.5

That further term must begin at the end of the person’s initial term as
interim chair.

###### Non-executive members: payment

8

8.1

The HSSIB must pay to the non-executive members such remuneration as the
Secretary of State may determine.

8.2

The HSSIB must pay or make provision for the payment of such pensions,
allowances or gratuities as the Secretary of State may determine to or in
respect of any person who is or has been a non-executive member.

8.3

If a person ceases to be a non-executive member and the Secretary of State
decides that there are exceptional circumstances which mean that the person
should be compensated, the HSSIB must pay compensation to the person of such
amount as the Secretary of State may determine.

###### Staff

9

9.1

The HSSIB may appoint such persons to be employees of the HSSIB as it
considers appropriate.

9.2

Employees of the HSSIB are to be paid such remuneration as the HSSIB may
determine.

9.3

Employees of the HSSIB are to be appointed on such other terms and conditions
as the HSSIB may determine.

9.4

The HSSIB may pay or make provision for the payment of such pensions,
allowances or gratuities as it may determine to or in respect of any person
who is or has been an employee of the HSSIB.

9.5

Before making a determination as to remuneration, pensions, allowances or
gratuities for the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (4) , the HSSIB must
obtain the approval of the Secretary of State to its policy on that matter.

###### Procedure

10

10.1

The HSSIB may regulate its own procedure.

10.2

The validity of any act of the HSSIB is not affected by any vacancy among the
members or by any defect in the appointment of any member.

###### Committees

11

11.1

The HSSIB may appoint such committees and sub-committees as it considers
appropriate.

11.2

A committee or sub-committee may consist of or include persons who are not
members or employees of the HSSIB.

11.3

The HSSIB may pay such remuneration and allowances as it may determine to any
person who—

11.3.a

is a member of a committee or a sub-committee, but

11.3.b

is not an employee of the HSSIB,

whether or not that person is a non-executive member of the HSSIB.

11.4

Before making a determination as to remuneration or allowances for the
purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) , the HSSIB must consult the Secretary of
State.

###### Exercise of functions

12

12.1

The HSSIB must exercise the functions conferred on it by this Part
effectively, efficiently and economically.

12.2

The HSSIB may arrange for the exercise of any of its functions on its behalf
by—

12.2.a

any non-executive member,

12.2.b

any employee (including any executive member), or

12.2.c

a committee or sub-committee.

###### Assistance in exercise of functions

13

13.1

The HSSIB may arrange for persons to assist it in the exercise of its
functions in relation to—

13.1.a

a particular case, or

13.1.b

cases of a particular description.

13.2

Such arrangements may include provision with respect to the payment of
remuneration and allowances to, or amounts in respect of, such persons.

###### Funding

14

14.1

The Secretary of State may make payments to the HSSIB out of money provided by
Parliament of such amounts as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

14.2

Payments made under sub-paragraph  (1)  may be made at such times and on such
conditions (if any) as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

###### Supplementary powers

15

15.1

The HSSIB may do anything which is calculated to facilitate, or is conducive
or incidental to, the discharge of any function conferred on it by this Part.

15.2

The power under sub-paragraph (1) includes power for the HSSIB to do the
following—

15.2.a

enter into agreements;

15.2.b

acquire and dispose of property;

15.2.c

supply materials, facilities and services to any person;

15.2.d

develop and exploit ideas and exploit intellectual property.

15.3

But the HSSIB requires the consent of the Secretary of State to borrow money
temporarily by way of overdraft.

###### Use of income from charges

16

Where the HSSIB receives income from imposing charges under section 127 (8)
or 128 (4) , it must ensure that the income is used for exercising its
functions.

###### Losses and liabilities etc

17

17.1

Section 265 of the Public Health Act 1875 (which relates to the protection of
members and officers of certain authorities from personal liability) has
effect as if the HSSIB were an authority of the kind referred to in that
section.

17.2

In its application to the HSSIB as a result of sub-paragraph  (1) , section
265 of that Act has effect as if the references in that section to that Act
were references to this Part of this Act.

###### Accounts

18

18.1

The HSSIB must keep proper accounts and proper records in relation to the
accounts.

18.2

The Secretary of State may give directions to the HSSIB as to—

18.2.a

the content and form of its accounts, and

18.2.b

the methods and principles to be applied in the preparation of its accounts.

19

19.1

The HSSIB must prepare annual accounts in respect of each financial year.

19.2

The HSSIB must send copies of the annual accounts to the Secretary of State
and the Comptroller and Auditor General within such period after the end of
the financial year to which the accounts relate as the Secretary of State may
direct.

19.3

The Comptroller and Auditor General must—

19.3.a

examine, certify and report on the annual accounts, and

19.3.b

lay copies of them and the report before Parliament.

19.4

In this paragraph and paragraph  20 , “ financial year ” means a period of 12
months ending with 31 March.

###### Reports and other information

20

20.1

As soon as practicable after the end of each financial year, the HSSIB must
prepare an annual report on how it has exercised its functions during the
financial year to which the report relates.

20.2

The report must, among other things, set out the measures that the HSSIB has
taken to ensure that its functions are exercised effectively, efficiently and
economically.

20.3

The HSSIB must send a copy of the report to the Secretary of State.

20.4

The Secretary of State must lay a copy of the report before Parliament.

20.5

The HSSIB must publish the report once it has been laid before Parliament.

20.6

Subject to sub-paragraph  (7) , the Secretary of State may require the HSSIB
to provide to the Secretary of State such other reports and information
relating to the exercise of its functions as the Secretary of State may
request.

20.7

The Secretary of State may not require the HSSIB to provide any reports or
information that relate to an investigation that the HSSIB is carrying out or
has carried out.

###### Seal and signature

21

21.1

The application of the HSSIB’s seal must be authenticated by the signature of
any member of the HSSIB or any other person who has been authorised (generally
or specially) for that purpose.

21.2

A document purporting to be duly executed under the HSSIB’s seal or to be
signed on its behalf must be received in evidence and, unless the contrary is
proved, taken to be so executed or signed.

##### Transfer schemes

22

22.1

The Secretary of State may, in connection with the establishment of the HSSIB
by this Act, make one or more transfer schemes.

22.2

A “transfer scheme” is a scheme for the transfer to the HSSIB of any property,
rights or liabilities of NHS England relating to the discharge of NHS
England’s functions pursuant to any directions made by the Secretary of State
under the power conferred by section 44 which are in force at the time the
scheme is made.

22.3

The things that may be transferred under a transfer scheme include—

22.3.a

property, rights and liabilities that could not otherwise be transferred;

22.3.b

property acquired, and rights and liabilities arising, after the making of the
scheme;

22.3.c

criminal liabilities.

22.4

A transfer scheme may—

22.4.a

create rights, or impose liabilities, in relation to property or rights
transferred;

22.4.b

make provision about the continuing effect of things done by, on behalf of or
in relation to NHS England in respect of anything transferred;

22.4.c

make provision about the continuation of things (including legal proceedings)
in the process of being done by, on behalf of or in relation to NHS England in
respect of anything transferred;

22.4.d

make provision for references to NHS England in an instrument or other
document in respect of anything transferred to be treated as references to the
HSSIB;

22.4.e

make provision for the shared ownership or use of property;

22.4.f

make provision which is the same as or similar to the TUPE regulations;

22.4.g

make other consequential, supplementary, incidental or transitional provision.

22.5

A transfer scheme may provide—

22.5.a

for modifications by agreement;

22.5.b

for modifications to have effect from the date when the original scheme came
into effect.

22.6

In sub-paragraph  (4) (f) , “ the TUPE regulations ” means the Transfer of
Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/246 ).

22.7

For the purposes of this paragraph—

22.7.a

references to rights and liabilities include rights and liabilities relating
to a contract of employment;

22.7.b

references to the transfer of property include the grant of a lease.

22.8

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (7) (a) —

22.8.a

an individual who holds employment in the civil service is to be treated as
employed by virtue of a contract of employment, and

22.8.b

the terms of the individual’s employment in the civil service of the State are
to be regarded as constituting the terms of the contract of employment.

23

23.1

The Treasury may by regulations make provision varying the way in which a
relevant tax has effect in relation to—

23.1.a

anything transferred under a scheme under paragraph  22 , or

23.1.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, a transfer under such a
scheme.

23.2

The provision which may be made under sub-paragraph  (1) (a)  includes in
particular provision for—

23.2.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything transferred;

23.2.b

anything transferred to be treated in a specified way for the purposes of a
tax provision;

23.2.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything transferred.

23.3

The provision which may be made under sub-paragraph (1)(b) includes in
particular provision for—

23.3.a

a tax provision not to apply, or to apply with modifications, in relation to
anything done for the purposes of or in relation to the transfer;

23.3.b

anything done for the purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer to have or
not have a specified consequence or be treated in a specified way;

23.3.c

the Secretary of State to be required or permitted to determine, or specify
the method for determining, anything which needs to be determined for the
purposes of any tax provision so far as relating to anything done for the
purposes of, or in relation to, the transfer.

23.4

Regulations under this paragraph are subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of the House of Commons.

23.5

In this paragraph references to the transfer of property include the grant of
a lease.

23.6

In this paragraph—

“ relevant tax ” means income tax, corporation tax, capital gains tax, value
added tax, stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax; “ tax provision ” means a
provision of an enactment about a relevant tax.

Prohibition on disclosure of HSSIB material: exceptions

Section 123

##### Disclosures for purposes of investigations

1

1.1

The HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSB, may disclose protected
material to an individual connected with the HSSIB if—

1.1.a

the person making the disclosure, or

1.1.b

an authorised person,

reasonably believes that the disclosure is necessary for the purposes of the
carrying out of the HSSIB’s investigation function.

1.2

In this paragraph “ authorised person ” means an individual connected with the
HSSIB who is authorised by the HSSIB for the purposes of this paragraph.

2

The HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSIB, may disclose protected
material to a person not connected with the HSSIB if the Chief Investigator
reasonably believes that the disclosure is necessary for the purposes of the
carrying out of the HSSIB’s investigation function.

##### Disclosures relating to prosecution or investigation of offences

3

The HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSIB, may disclose protected
material to a person if the Chief Investigator reasonably believes that the
disclosure is necessary for the purposes of the prosecution or investigation
of an offence under section 121 (offences relating to investigations) or 124
(unlawful disclosure).

##### Disclosures relating to safety risks

4

The HSSIB, or an individual connected with the HSSIB, may disclose protected
material to a person where—

4.a

the Chief Investigator reasonably believes that the disclosure of the material
is necessary to address a serious and continuing risk to the safety of any
patient or to the public,

4.b

the Chief Investigator reasonably believes that the person is in a position to
address the risk, and

4.c

the disclosure is only to the extent necessary to enable the person to take
steps to address the risk.

##### Disclosure by order of the High Court

5

5.1

A person may apply to the High Court for an order that any protected material
be disclosed by the HSSIB to the person for the purposes specified in the
application.

5.2

Those purposes may include onward disclosure by the person making the
application to a person specified in the application.

5.3

The HSSIB may make representations to the High Court about any application
under this paragraph.

5.4

The High Court may make an order on an application under this paragraph only
if it determines that the interests of justice served by the disclosure
outweigh—

5.4.a

any adverse impact on current and future investigations by deterring persons
from providing information for the purposes of investigations, and

5.4.b

any adverse impact on securing the improvement of the safety of health care
services provided to patients in England.

##### Exercise of Chief Investigator’s functions

6

6.1

The Chief Investigator may arrange for the Chief Investigator’s functions
under any provision of this Schedule to be exercised by an investigator.

6.2

An arrangement under this paragraph may relate to a particular case, a
particular class of case or all cases.

##### Guidance

7

7.1

The HSSIB must publish guidance as to—

7.1.a

when it might be appropriate for protected material to be disclosed under
paragraph  2 ,  3 , or  4 ,

7.1.b

the types of protected material which it might be appropriate to disclose
under any such provision, and

7.1.c

the processes which should be used when disclosing protected material under
any such provision.

7.2

If the HSSIB revises the guidance, the HSSIB must publish it as revised.

  Consequential amendments relating to Part 4

Section 134

##### Public Records Act 

1

In Schedule 1 to the Public Records Act 1958 (definition of public records) in
Part 2 of the table in paragraph 3, at the appropriate place insert—

      Health Services Safety Investigations Body (except for any record that
is prohibited from being disclosed by section 122 of the Health and Care Act
2022).

##### Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 

2

In the Schedule to the Public Bodies (Admission to Meetings) Act 1960 (public
authorities to which that Act applies) in paragraph 1, after paragraph  (p)
(inserted by Schedule 4 to this Act) insert—

2.q

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

##### Parliamentary Commissioner Act 

3

In Schedule 2 to the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967 (departments etc
subject to investigation) at the appropriate place insert—

      The Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

##### House of Commons Disqualification Act 

4

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975
(other disqualifying offices) at the appropriate place insert —

      Chief Investigator, chair or other member of the Health Services Safety
Investigations Body.

##### Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 

5

In section 48(6) of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (material
communicated to the Crown in the course of public business) after “the Care
Quality Commission,” insert  “the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,”
.

##### Employment Rights Act 

6

6.1

The Employment Rights Act 1996 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 49B(7) (regulations prohibiting discrimination because of protected
disclosure) after paragraph (g) insert—

6.2.ga

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body;

.

6.3

In section 50(8) (right to time off for public duties) after paragraph (ad)
insert—

6.3.ae

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,

.

6.4

In section 218(10) (change of employer) after paragraph (cd) insert—

6.4.ce

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

##### Freedom of Information Act 

7

In Part 6 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (public
authorities to which that Act applies) at the appropriate place insert—

      The Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

##### National Health Service Act 

8

8.1

The National Health Service Act 2006 is amended as follows.

8.2

In section 9(4) (NHS contracts) after paragraph (kc) insert—

8.2.kd

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,

.

8.3

In section 71(2) (schemes for meeting losses and liabilities etc of certain
health service bodies: bodies eligible to participate) after paragraph (fa)
insert—

8.3.fb

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body,

.

8.4

In section 247C(2) (Secretary of State’s duty to keep health service functions
under review) after paragraph (ea) insert—

8.4.eb

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body;

.

8.5

In section 253 (emergency powers)—

8.5.a

in subsection (1A), after paragraph (c) insert—

8.5.a.ca

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body;

, and

8.5.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Health Act 

9

In section 2(2) of the Health Act 2009 (duty to have regard to NHS
Constitution) after paragraph (h) insert—

9.i

the Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

##### Equality Act 

10

In Part 1 of Schedule 19 to the Equality Act 2010 (public authorities to which
the public sector equality duty applies) under the heading “Health, social
care and social security”, after the entry relating to the Health and Social
Care Information Centre insert—

      The Health Services Safety Investigations Body.

Virginity testing and hymenoplasty: consequential amendments

Section 160

##### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

1

In section 65A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (qualifying
offences for the purposes of Part 5 of that Act), in subsection (2), after
paragraph (t) insert—

1.u

an offence under any of sections 136 to 138 and 148 to 150 of the Health and
Care Act 2022 (offences relating to virginity testing and hymenoplasty).

##### Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989

2

In Article 53A of the Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order
1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) ) (qualifying offences for the purposes of
Part 6 of that Order), in paragraph (2)—

2.a

the second sub-paragraph (t) (inserted by the Space Industry Act 2018) becomes
sub-paragraph (u);

2.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

2.b.v

an offence under any of sections 144 to 146 and 156 to 158 of the Health and
Care Act 2022 (offences relating to virginity testing and hymenoplasty).

##### Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994

3

3.1

Schedule 7A to the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (offences for
which cross-border powers of arrest available) is amended as follows.

3.2

After paragraph 25 insert—

3.2.25A

An offence under any of the following sections of the Health and Care Act
2022—

3.2.25A.a

section 136 (virginity testing);

3.2.25A.b

section 137 (offering to carry out virginity testing);

3.2.25A.c

section 138 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing);

3.2.25A.d

section 148 (carrying out hymenoplasty);

3.2.25A.e

section 149 (offering to carry out hymenoplasty);

3.2.25A.f

section 150 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty).

3.3

After paragraph 43 insert—

3.3.43A

An offence under any of the following sections of the Health and Care Act
2022—

3.3.43A.a

section 140 (virginity testing);

3.3.43A.b

section 141 (offering to carry out virginity testing);

3.3.43A.c

section 142 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing);

3.3.43A.d

section 152 (carrying out hymenoplasty);

3.3.43A.e

section 153 (offering to carry out hymenoplasty);

3.3.43A.f

section 154 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty).

3.4

After paragraph 67 insert—

3.4.68

An offence under any of the following sections of the Health and Care Act
2022—

3.4.68.a

section 144 (virginity testing);

3.4.68.b

section 145 (offering to carry out virginity testing);

3.4.68.c

section 146 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing);

3.4.68.d

section 156 (carrying out hymenoplasty);

3.4.68.e

section 157 (offering to carry out hymenoplasty);

3.4.68.f

section 158 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty).

##### Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995

4

The Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

5

In section 19A (samples etc. from persons convicted of sexual or violent
offences), in the definition of “relevant violent offence” in subsection (6),
in paragraph (h)—

5.a

omit the “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (iv);

5.b

after sub-paragraph (v) insert—

5.b.vi

any of sections 140 to 142 and 152 to 154 of the Health and Care Act 2022
(offences relating to virginity testing and hymenoplasty).

6

In section 271BZA (child witnesses in certain solemn cases: special measures),
in subsection (2), after paragraph (f) insert—

6.fa

an offence under any of sections 140 to 142 and 152 to 154 of the Health and
Care Act 2022 (offences relating to virginity testing and hymenoplasty);

.

##### Crime and Disorder Act 1998

7

In section 51C of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (notices in certain cases
involving children), in subsection (3)—

7.a

after paragraph (da) insert—

7.a.db

under any of sections 136 to 138 and 148 to 150 of the Health and Care Act
2022 (virginity testing and hymenoplasty etc);

;

7.b

for “paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (da)” substitute  “any of paragraphs (a)
to (db)” .

##### Protection of Vulnerable Groups (Scotland) Act 

8

Pending the commencement of its repeal by section 81(2)(d) of the Disclosure
(Scotland) Act 2020, paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Protection of Vulnerable
Groups (Scotland) Act 2007 (relevant offences) has effect as if it included a
reference to an individual who commits an offence under any of sections 140 to
142 or 152 to 154 of this Act (offences relating to virginity testing and
hymenoplasty).

##### Modern Slavery Act 2015

9

In Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015 (offences to which defence in
section 45 does not apply), after paragraph 36A insert—

######### Health and Care Act 2022

9.36B

An offence under any of the following provisions of the Health and Care Act
2022—

9.36B.a

section 136 (virginity testing);

9.36B.b

section 137 (offering to carry out virginity testing);

9.36B.c

section 138 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out virginity testing);

9.36B.d

section 148 (carrying out hymenoplasty);

9.36B.e

section 149 (offering to carry out hymenoplasty);

9.36B.f

section 150 (aiding or abetting etc a person to carry out hymenoplasty).

Storage of gametes and embryos

Section 171

##### Amendments to Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990

###### Introductory

1

The Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990 is amended as follows.

###### Maximum storage periods

2

2.1

Section 14 (conditions of storage licences) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (1), for paragraph (c) substitute—

2.2.c

that the requirements of subsection (3) (maximum storage periods) are met,

.

2.3

For subsections (3) to (5) substitute—

2.3.3

The requirements referred to in subsection (1)(c) are as follows—

2.3.3.a

gametes must not be kept in storage for longer than such period not exceeding
55 years beginning with the day on which they are first placed in storage as
the licence may specify;

2.3.3.b

an embryo must not be kept in storage for treatment purposes for longer than
such period not exceeding 55 years beginning with the day on which it is first
so kept as the licence may specify;

2.3.3.c

an embryo that is kept in storage for the research or training purpose but not
for treatment purposes must not be so kept for longer than such period not
exceeding 10 years beginning with the day on which consent was given under
Schedule 3 to the storage of the embryo for that purpose as the licence may
specify;

2.3.3.d

a human admixed embryo must not be kept in storage for longer than such period
not exceeding 10 years beginning with the day on which it is first placed in
storage as the licence may specify.

2.3.4

Where under Schedule 3 consent is given to the storage of an embryo for the
training or research purpose by different persons on different days, the
reference in subsection (3)(c) to the day on which consent was given is to be
taken as a reference to the last of those days.

2.3.5

For the purposes of this section—

2.3.5.a

“treatment purposes” are purposes referred to in paragraph 2(1)(a) or (b) of
Schedule 3;

2.3.5.b

the “training purpose” is the purpose referred to in paragraph 2(1)(ba) of
that Schedule;

2.3.5.c

the “research purpose” is the purpose referred to in paragraph 2(1)(c) of that
Schedule.

3

In section 47 (index), omit the entry for the “Statutory storage period”.

4

In Schedule 3 (consents), in paragraph 2(2)(a), for “statutory storage period”
substitute  “period for which, by virtue of section 14(3), the gametes, embryo
or human admixed embryo may be stored under the licence” .

###### Disposal of material

5

In section 14 (conditions of storage licences), in subsection (1), after
paragraph (c) insert—

5.ca

that any gametes, embryos or human admixed embryos that have been kept in
storage pursuant to the licence must, once they may no longer lawfully be so
kept, be removed from storage and disposed of, and

.

6

In section 17 (the person responsible), in subsection (1)(c), for “allowed to
perish” substitute  “removed from storage” .

###### Consent to storage

7

7.1

Schedule 3 (consents) is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph 1—

7.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), before the first “and” insert  “any renewal of consent,”
;

7.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2), before the first “and” insert  “any renewal of consent
by a person unable to sign,” ;

7.2.c

in sub-paragraph (3)—

7.2.c.i

the words from ““effective consent” to the end become paragraph (a);

7.2.c.ii

after that paragraph insert—

7.2.c.ii.b

references to renewal of consent are to renewal of consent to the storage of
any gametes or embryo under paragraph 11A or 11C.

7.3

In paragraph 3, in sub-paragraph (1), after “gives” insert  “or renews” .

7.4

After paragraph 11 insert—

############ Renewal of consent to storage of gametes

7.4.11A

7.4.11A.1

This paragraph applies where—

7.4.11A.1.a

the gametes of a person (“ P ”) are in storage,

7.4.11A.1.b

P’s consent to the storage of the gametes is required under paragraph 8(1),

7.4.11A.1.c

there is effective consent from P to the storage of the gametes, and

7.4.11A.1.d

the gametes are being kept for use for the purposes of providing treatment
services to—

7.4.11A.1.d.i

P, or

7.4.11A.1.d.ii

P and another person together.

7.4.11A.2

The person keeping the gametes in storage (“ K ”) must, in each consent
period, request P to renew consent to storage of the gametes within the
renewal period.

For the meaning of “consent period” and “renewal period”, see paragraph 11B.

7.4.11A.3

A request under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be given in writing before the start
of the renewal period.

7.4.11A.4

The duty in sub-paragraph  (2)  ceases to apply if K is notified that P has
died.

7.4.11A.5

The duty in sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply in relation to any consent
period if—

7.4.11A.5.a

K has at any time been informed in writing that P has been certified as
lacking capacity to renew consent to storage of the gametes, and

7.4.11A.5.b

K has not subsequently been informed in writing, before the start of the
renewal period which relates to that consent period, that P has been certified
as having capacity to renew consent to storage of the gametes.

7.4.11A.6

P renews consent by informing K in writing that P consents to the storage of
the gametes.

7.4.11A.7

If P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph  (6)  before the end of the
consent period, K must, as soon as possible after the end of that period, give
a notice to P stating that if P does not renew consent before the end of the
renewal period, the gametes will be removed from storage and disposed of.

7.4.11A.8

P’s consent to the storage of the gametes is to be taken as having been
withdrawn at the end of a renewal period that relates to a consent period if—

7.4.11A.8.a

K has complied with the requirements of sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (7)  in
relation to that consent period, and

7.4.11A.8.b

P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph  (6)  before the end of the
renewal period.

But this is subject to sub-paragraphs  (9)  and  (10) .

7.4.11A.9

If, in a case referred to in sub-paragraph  (8)(a)  and  (b) , P dies before
the end of the renewal period—

7.4.11A.9.a

P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (8) , but

7.4.11A.9.b

if at the end of the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P died
there is still effective consent from P to the storage, P’s consent is to be
taken as withdrawn at that time.

7.4.11A.10

If, in a case referred to in sub-paragraph  (8)(a)  and  (b) , before the end
of the renewal period P is certified as lacking capacity to renew consent—

7.4.11A.10.a

P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (8) , but

7.4.11A.10.b

if at the end of the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P was
so certified there is still effective consent from P to the storage, P’s
consent is to be taken as withdrawn at that time.

7.4.11A.11

But P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (10)(b)
if, before the time it would be taken to be withdrawn under that sub-
paragraph—

7.4.11A.11.a

P is certified as having capacity to renew consent to storage of the gametes,
and

7.4.11A.11.b

P renews consent to storage of the gametes by informing K in writing that P
consents to their storage.

7.4.11A.12

In a case where P renews consent under sub-paragraph  (11)(b) , this paragraph
applies subsequently as if references to a consent period were to—

7.4.11A.12.a

the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P so renewed consent,
and

7.4.11A.12.b

each successive period of 10 years.

7.4.11B

7.4.11B.1

For the purposes of paragraph 11A, each of the following is a “consent
period”—

7.4.11B.1.a

the period of 10 years beginning with the relevant day, and

7.4.11B.1.b

each successive period of 10 years.

7.4.11B.2

In sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  “ relevant day ” means—

7.4.11B.2.a

the day on which the gametes are first placed in storage, or

7.4.11B.2.b

in a case where sub-paragraph  (3)  or  (5)  applies, the day on which P gives
consent to the storage of the gametes.

7.4.11B.3

This sub-paragraph applies where the gametes are taken from or provided by P
before P attains the age of 18 years and, at the time the gametes are first
stored—

7.4.11B.3.a

P has not attained the age of 16 years and is not competent to deal with the
issue of consent to storage of the gametes, or

7.4.11B.3.b

P has attained that age but, although not lacking capacity to consent to the
storage of the gametes, is not competent to deal with the issue of consent to
their storage.

7.4.11B.4

In relation to Scotland, sub-paragraph  (3)  is to be read as if, for
paragraphs (a) and (b), there were substituted  “P does not have capacity
(within the meaning of section 2(4) of the Age of Legal Capacity (Scotland)
Act 1991) to consent to storage of the gametes” .

7.4.11B.5

This sub-paragraph applies where the gametes are taken from or provided by P
after P attains the age of 16 years and, at the time the gametes are first
stored, P lacks capacity to consent to their storage.

7.4.11B.6

In paragraph  11A  “ the renewal period ”, in relation to a consent period,
means the period which—

7.4.11B.6.a

begins 12 months before the end of the consent period, and

7.4.11B.6.b

ends 6 months after the end of the consent period.

7.4.11B.7

In paragraph  11A  “ certified ” means certified in writing by a registered
medical practitioner.

7.4.11B.8

In paragraph  11A  and this paragraph, in relation to Scotland, references to
a person lacking or having capacity to consent or renew consent are to be read
as references to the person being or not being incapable (within the meaning
of section 1(6) of the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000) of
consenting or renewing consent.

############ Renewal of consent to storage of embryos

7.4.11C

7.4.11C.1

This paragraph applies where—

7.4.11C.1.a

an embryo, the creation of which was brought about  in vitro , is in storage,

7.4.11C.1.b

the embryo is being kept for use for the purposes of providing treatment
services to—

7.4.11C.1.b.i

a person (“ P ”) whose gametes or human cells were used to bring about the
creation of the embryo, or

7.4.11C.1.b.ii

P and another person together,

7.4.11C.1.c

P’s consent to the storage of the embryo is required under paragraph 8(2), and

7.4.11C.1.d

there is effective consent from P to the storage of the embryo.

7.4.11C.2

The person keeping the embryo in storage (“ K ”) must, in each consent period,
request P to renew consent to storage of the embryo within the renewal period.

For the meaning of “consent period” and “renewal period”, see paragraph 11D.

7.4.11C.3

A request under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be given in writing before the start
of the renewal period.

7.4.11C.4

The duty in sub-paragraph  (2)  ceases to apply if—

7.4.11C.4.a

K is notified that P has died, or

7.4.11C.4.b

K is notified under paragraph 4A(1)(c) of the withdrawal of a person’s consent
to storage of the embryo.

7.4.11C.5

The duty in sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply in relation to any consent
period if—

7.4.11C.5.a

K has at any time been informed in writing that P has been certified as
lacking capacity to renew consent to storage of the embryo, and

7.4.11C.5.b

K has not subsequently been informed in writing, before the start of the
renewal period which relates to that consent period, that P has been certified
as having capacity to renew consent to storage of the embryo.

7.4.11C.6

P renews consent by informing K in writing that P consents to the storage of
the embryo.

7.4.11C.7

If P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph  (6)  before the end of the
consent period, K must, as soon as possible after the end of that period, give
a notice to P stating that if P does not renew consent before the end of the
renewal period, the embryo will be removed from storage and disposed of.

7.4.11C.8

P’s consent to the storage of the embryo is to be taken as having been
withdrawn at the end of a renewal period that relates to a consent period if—

7.4.11C.8.a

K has complied with the requirements of sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (7)  in
relation to that consent period, and

7.4.11C.8.b

P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph  (6)  before the end of the
renewal period.

But this is subject to sub-paragraphs  (9)  and  (10) .

7.4.11C.9

If, in a case referred to in sub-paragraph  (8)(a)  and  (b) , P dies before
the end of the renewal period—

7.4.11C.9.a

P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (8) , but

7.4.11C.9.b

if at the end of the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P died
there is still effective consent from P to the storage, P’s consent is to be
taken as withdrawn at that time.

7.4.11C.10

If, in a case referred to in sub-paragraph  (8)(a)  and  (b) , before the end
of the renewal period P is certified as lacking capacity to renew consent—

7.4.11C.10.a

P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (8) , but

7.4.11C.10.b

if at the end of the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P was
so certified there is still effective consent from P to the storage, P’s
consent is to be taken as withdrawn at that time.

7.4.11C.11

But P’s consent is not to be taken as withdrawn under sub-paragraph  (10)(b)
if, before the time it would be taken to be withdrawn under that sub-
paragraph—

7.4.11C.11.a

P is certified as having capacity to renew consent to storage of the embryo,
and

7.4.11C.11.b

P renews consent to storage of the embryo by informing K in writing that P
consents to its storage.

7.4.11C.12

In a case where P has renewed consent under sub-paragraph  (11)(b) , this
paragraph applies subsequently as if references to the consent period were to—

7.4.11C.12.a

the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which P so renewed consent,
and

7.4.11C.12.b

each successive period of 10 years.

7.4.11C.13

Where P’s consent is taken as withdrawn under this paragraph, K must, as soon
as possible, take all reasonable steps to give notice of the withdrawal to
each person whose gametes or human cells were used to bring about its
creation.

7.4.11C.14

Storage of the embryo remains lawful until—

7.4.11C.14.a

the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the day on which P’s consent
is taken as withdrawn under this paragraph, or

7.4.11C.14.b

if, before the end of that period, K receives a notice from each person
notified under sub-paragraph  (13)  stating that the person consents to the
disposal of the embryo, the time at which the last of those notices was
received.

7.4.11D

7.4.11D.1

For the purposes of paragraph  11C , each of the following is a “consent
period”—

7.4.11D.1.a

the period of 10 years beginning with the day on which the embryo is first
placed in storage, and

7.4.11D.1.b

each successive period of 10 years.

7.4.11D.2

In paragraph  11C  “ the renewal period ”, in relation to a consent period,
means the period which—

7.4.11D.2.a

begins 12 months before the end of the consent period, and

7.4.11D.2.b

ends 6 months after the end of the consent period.

7.4.11D.3

In paragraph  11C  “ certified ” means certified in writing by a registered
medical practitioner.

7.4.11D.4

In paragraph  11C , in relation to Scotland, references to a person lacking or
having capacity to renew consent are to be read as references to the person
being or not being incapable (within the meaning of section 1(6) of the Adults
with Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000) of renewing consent.

##### Transitional provision

###### Interpretation

8

8.1

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the commencement day ” means 1 July 2022; “ the transitional period ” means
the period beginning with the commencement day and ending with 30 June 2024.

8.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the 1990 Act ” means the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990; “ the
2009 Regulations ” means the Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Statutory
Storage Period for Embryos and Gametes) Regulations 2009 ( S.I. 2009/1582 ); “
the 2020 Regulations ” means the Human Fertilisation and Embryology (Statutory
Storage Period for Embryos and Gametes) (Coronavirus) Regulations 2020 ( S.I.
2020/566 ).

8.3

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ gamete storage licence ” means a licence under Schedule 2 to the 1990 Act
that authorises the storage of gametes; “ embryo storage licence ” means a
licence under Schedule 2 to the 1990 Act that authorises the storage of
embryos; “ storage licence ” means a licence under Schedule 2 to the 1990 Act
that authorises the storage of gametes, embryos or human admixed embryos; “
pre-commencement ”, in relation to a storage licence, or a storage licence of
any description, means granted before the commencement day and “ post-
commencement ” means granted on or after that day.

8.4

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ statutory storage period ” has the same meaning as in the 1990 Act
immediately before the commencement day; references to gametes, embryos and
human admixed embryos have the same meaning as in that Act; “ the training
purpose ”, “ the research purpose ” and “ treatment purposes ” have the same
meanings as in section 14(3)(c) of that Act.

###### Application of Part 1 to material already in storage

9

9.1

The amendments in paragraphs  2  to  6  of this Schedule have effect in
relation to pre-commencement storage licences under which gametes, embryos or
human admixed embryos are kept in storage on or after the commencement day (as
well as having effect in relation to post-commencement storage licences).

This is subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

9.2

In the case of a pre-commencement embryo storage licence, the condition
imposed by section 14(3)(c) of the 1990 Act (as substituted by paragraph  2
of this Schedule) does not apply in relation to an embryo which, on the
commencement day, is kept in storage for the training or research purpose but
not for treatment purposes.

9.3

In the case of any pre-commencement storage licence, the condition imposed by
section 14(1)(ca) of the 1990 Act (as substituted by paragraph  5  of this
Schedule) applies only in relation to times on or after the commencement day.

10

The amendments made by paragraph  7  of this Schedule have effect in relation
to the storage of gametes and embryos under a pre-commencement gamete or
embryo storage licence, where the gametes or embryos are kept in storage on or
after the commencement day (as well as having effect in relation to the
storage of gametes and embryos under a post-commencement gamete or embryo
storage licence).

###### Date of first storage

11

11.1

This paragraph applies if the person storing gametes or an embyro under a pre-
commencement gamete or embryo storage licence—

11.1.a

has, before the end of the transitional period, taken all reasonable steps to
establish the date on which the gametes were or embryo was first placed in
storage, but

11.1.b

is unable to establish that date.

11.2

The person may give a notice to each person whose consent to the storage is
required under Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act specifying a date on which the
gametes are or embryo is to be regarded as having been first placed in
storage.

11.3

Where notice is given under sub-paragraph (2), the gametes are or embryo is to
be regarded, for all purposes of the 1990 Act and this Part of this Schedule,
as having been first placed in storage on the date specified in the notice.

###### Storage periods specified in pre-commencement storage licences

12

12.1

For the purposes of section 14(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (as substituted by
paragraph  2  of this Schedule), a pre-commencement gamete storage licence
under which, on and after the commencement day, gametes are kept in storage is
to be regarded as specifying the period of 55 years beginning with the day on
which the gametes were first placed in storage.

12.2

For the purposes of section 14(3)(b) of the 1990 Act (as substituted by
paragraph  2  of this Schedule), a pre-commencement embryo storage licence
under which, on and after the commencement day, an embryo is kept in storage
for treatment purposes is to be regarded as specifying for those purposes the
period of 55 years beginning with the day on which the embryo was first so
kept.

###### Storage after expiry of pre-commencement consent

13

13.1

If a pre-commencement consent to the storage of gametes or an embryo expires
at any time in the transitional period, the storage of the gametes or embryo
for the remainder of that period is not unlawful merely because of that fact.

13.2

In sub-paragraph (1)—

13.2.a

“ pre-commencement consent ” means consent given under Schedule 3 to the 1990
Act before the commencement day;

13.2.b

the reference to expiry of consent does not include withdrawal.

###### Storage with no effective consent prior to commencement

14

14.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the storage of gametes or an embryo
under a pre-commencement gamete or embryo storage licence where, immediately
before the commencement day, there is no effective consent to the storage by a
relevant person.

14.2

The person keeping the gametes or embryo in storage must request the relevant
person to give consent to the storage under Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act.

14.3

A request under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be given before 1 July 2023 in
writing.

14.4

The storage of the gametes or embryo at any time before the end of the
transitional period is not unlawful merely because there is no effective
consent to the storage by the relevant person.

14.5

In this paragraph—

“ effective consent ” means consent under Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act which has
not been withdrawn; “ relevant person ” means a person whose consent is
required under Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act to storage of the gametes or embryo.

###### Time for first renewal of consent

15

15.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the storage of gametes under a pre-
commencement gamete storage licence where the statutory storage period
applicable immediately before the commencement day was provided for by—

15.1.a

regulation 4, 4A, 7 or 8 of the 2009 Regulations, or

15.1.b

regulation 4 of the 2020 Regulations.

15.2

For the purposes of paragraph  11A  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act (as inserted
by paragraph  7  of this Schedule), paragraph  11B(1)(a)  of that Schedule has
effect as if the reference to the period of 10 years beginning with the
relevant day were a reference to the period which—

15.2.a

begins with the relevant day, and

15.2.b

ends at the end of the statutory storage period referred to in sub-paragraph
(1) .

16

16.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the storage of an embryo under a pre-
commencement embryo storage licence where the statutory storage period
applicable immediately before the commencement day was provided for by—

16.1.a

regulation 3, 3A, 5 or 6 of the 2009 Regulations, or

16.1.b

regulation 3 of the 2020 Regulations.

16.2

For the purposes of paragraph  11C  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act (as inserted
by paragraph 7 of this Schedule), paragraph  11D(1)(a)  of that Schedule has
effect as if the reference to the period of 10 years beginning with the day on
which the embryo was first placed in storage were a reference to the period
which—

16.2.a

begins with the day on which the embryo was first so placed, and

16.2.b

ends at the end of the statutory storage period referred to in sub-paragraph
(1) .

###### Renewals falling due in the transitional period

17

17.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the storage of gametes under a pre-
commencement gamete storage licence in a case where—

17.1.a

paragraph  11A  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act applies in relation to the
storage, and

17.1.b

for the purposes of that paragraph, the first consent period (see paragraph
11B(1)(a)  of that Schedule) ends in the transitional period.

17.2

Where this paragraph applies, paragraph  11A  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act
has effect in relation to that first consent period as if—

17.2.a

for sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  there were substituted—

17.2.a.2

The person keeping the gametes in storage (“ K ”) must request P to renew
consent to storage of the gametes before 1 July 2024.

17.2.a.3

A request under sub-paragraph (2) must—

17.2.a.3.a

be given in writing before 1 July 2023;

17.2.a.3.b

state that if P does not renew consent before 1 July 2024, the gametes will be
removed from storage and disposed of.

;

17.2.b

in sub-paragraph  (5)(b) , for “the start of the renewal period which relates
to that consent period” there were substituted  “1 July 2023” ;

17.2.c

sub-paragraph  (7)  were omitted;

17.2.d

for sub-paragraph  (8)  there were substituted—

17.2.d.8

P’s consent to the storage of the gametes is to be taken as having been
withdrawn at the beginning of 1 July 2024 if—

17.2.d.8.a

K has complied with sub-paragraph (2), and

17.2.d.8.b

P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph (6) before 1 July 2024.

But this is subject to sub-paragraphs (9) and (10).

;

17.2.e

in sub-paragraphs  (9)  and  (10) , references to the end of the renewal
period were to 1 July 2024.

18

18.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the storage of an embryo under a pre-
commencement embryo storage licence in a case where—

18.1.a

paragraph  11C  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act applies in relation to the
storage, and

18.1.b

for the purposes of that paragraph, the first consent period (see paragraph
11D(1)(a)  of that Schedule) ends in the transitional period.

18.2

Where this paragraph applies, paragraph  11C  of Schedule 3 to the 1990 Act
has effect in relation to that first consent period as if—

18.2.a

for sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3)  there were substituted—

18.2.a.2

The person keeping the embryo in storage (“ K ”) must request P to renew
consent to storage of the embryo before 1 July 2024.

18.2.a.3

A request under sub-paragraph (2) must—

18.2.a.3.a

be given in writing before 1 July 2023;

18.2.a.3.b

state that if P does not renew consent before 1 July 2024, the embryo will be
removed from storage and disposed of.

;

18.2.b

in sub-paragraph  (5)(b) , for “the start of the renewal period which relates
to that consent period” there were substituted  “1 July 2023” ;

18.2.c

sub-paragraph  (7)  were omitted;

18.2.d

for sub-paragraph  (8)  there were substituted—

18.2.d.8

P’s consent to the storage of the embryo is to be taken as having been
withdrawn at the beginning of 1 July 2024 if—

18.2.d.8.a

K has complied with sub-paragraph (2), and

18.2.d.8.b

P’s consent is not renewed under sub-paragraph (6) before 1 July 2024.

But this is subject to sub-paragraphs (9) and (10).

;

18.2.e

in sub-paragraphs  (9)  and  (10) , references to the end of the renewal
period were to 1 July 2024.

  Advertising of less healthy food and drink

Section 172

##### Programme services: watershed

###### Television programme services

1

After section 321 of the Communications Act 2003 insert—

########## Objectives for advertisements: less healthy food and drink

1.321A

1.321A.1

OFCOM must set standards by virtue of section 321(1)(b) prohibiting television
programme services provided between 5.30 am and 9.00 pm from including
advertisements for an identifiable less healthy food or drink product, except
as provided for by subsection  (3) .

1.321A.2

OFCOM must ensure that the prohibition provided for by the first standards set
by virtue of subsection  (1)  takes effect from the beginning of 1 January
2023.

1.321A.3

Standards set by virtue of subsection  (1)  must exempt from the prohibition
imposed by them—

1.321A.3.a

advertisements included in television programme services as a result of
arrangements made by or on behalf of a person who is, at the time when the
arrangements are made, a food or drink SME;

1.321A.3.b

advertisements prescribed in any regulations made by the Secretary of State
under this paragraph.

1.321A.4

For the purposes of this section—

1.321A.4.a

“ advertisements ” includes advertisements under a sponsorship agreement and
anything else which, under a sponsorship agreement, is included in a
television programme service, other than in a television programme;

1.321A.4.b

a product is “ identifiable ”, in relation to advertisements, if persons in
the United Kingdom (or any part of the United Kingdom) could reasonably be
expected to be able to identify the advertisements as being for that product;

1.321A.4.c

a food or drink product is “less healthy” if—

1.321A.4.c.i

it falls within a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary
of State, and

1.321A.4.c.ii

it is “less healthy” in accordance with the relevant guidance;

1.321A.4.d

“the relevant guidance” is the guidance entitled “Nutrient Profiling Technical
Guidance” published by the Department of Health on 1 January 2011;

1.321A.4.e

“ food or drink SME ” means a small or medium enterprise, within the meaning
given by regulations made by the Secretary of State, of a description
specified in the regulations.

1.321A.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)(e)  that make provision by reference to the
number of members of staff of a person may make provision about who is to
count as a member of staff (including members of staff of another person).

1.321A.6

The Secretary of State may, before the date specified in subsection  (2) ,
amend that subsection so as to substitute a later date for the date that is
for the time being specified there.

1.321A.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to change the
meaning of “the relevant guidance”.

1.321A.8

Before making regulations under subsection (3)(b) or  (7) , the Secretary of
State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

1.321A.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (7)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

###### On-demand programme services

2

After section 368F of the Communications Act 2003 insert—

########## Advertising: less healthy food and drink

2.368FA

2.368FA.1

From the beginning of 1 January 2023, on-demand programme services must not,
between 5.30 am and 9.00 pm, include advertisements for an identifiable less
healthy food or drink product.

2.368FA.2

The prohibition imposed by subsection  (1)  does not apply in relation to
advertisements included in on-demand programme services as a result of
arrangements made by or on behalf of a person who is, at the time when the
arrangements are made, a food or drink SME.

2.368FA.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for further exemptions from
the prohibition imposed by subsection  (1) .

2.368FA.4

For the purposes of this section—

2.368FA.4.a

“ advertisements ” includes advertisements and sponsorship announcements
(within the meaning given by section 368G(17)) under a sponsorship agreement;

2.368FA.4.b

a product is “ identifiable ”, in relation to advertisements, if persons in
the United Kingdom (or any part of the United Kingdom) could reasonably be
expected to be able to identify the advertisements as being for that product;

2.368FA.4.c

a food or drink product is “less healthy” if—

2.368FA.4.c.i

it falls within a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary
of State, and

2.368FA.4.c.ii

it is “less healthy” in accordance with the relevant guidance;

2.368FA.4.d

“ the relevant guidance ” means the guidance entitled “Nutrient Profiling
Technical Guidance” published by the Department of Health on 1 January 2011;

2.368FA.4.e

“ food or drink SME ” means a small or medium enterprise, within the meaning
given by regulations made by the Secretary of State, of a description
specified in the regulations.

2.368FA.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)(e)  that make provision by reference to the
number of members of staff of a person may make provision about who is to
count as a member of staff (including members of staff of another person).

2.368FA.6

The Secretary of State may, before the date specified in subsection  (1) ,
amend that subsection so as to substitute a later date for the date that is
for the time being specified there.

2.368FA.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to change the
meaning of “the relevant guidance”.

2.368FA.8

Before making regulations under subsection  (3)  or  (7) , the Secretary of
State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

2.368FA.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (7)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

##### Online services: prohibition

3

In the Communications Act 2003, after Part 4B insert—

######### Online advertising of less healthy food and drink

########## Advertising of less healthy food and drink

########### Prohibition of paid-for advertising of less healthy food and drink

3.368Z14

3.368Z14.1

From the beginning of 1 January 2023, a person must not pay for advertisements
for an identifiable less healthy food or drink product to be placed on the
internet.

3.368Z14.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply where the person paying is, at the time when
the payment is made, a food or drink SME.

3.368Z14.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply—

3.368Z14.3.a

in relation to advertisements which are directed solely at persons who are
engaged in, or employed by, a business which involves or is associated with
the manufacture or sale of food or drink,

3.368Z14.3.b

in relation to advertisements included in on-demand programme services (as to
which, see section  368FA ),

3.368Z14.3.c

in relation to advertisements included in services connected to regulated
radio services, or

3.368Z14.3.d

in relation to advertisements which are not intended to be accessed
principally by persons in any part of the United Kingdom.

3.368Z14.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for further exemptions from
the prohibition imposed by subsection  (1) .

3.368Z14.5

For the purposes of this section—

3.368Z14.5.a

paying includes providing any consideration (monetary or non-monetary);

3.368Z14.5.b

“ placed ” includes continues to be placed;

3.368Z14.5.c

paying for advertisements to be placed on the internet includes paying under a
sponsorship agreement as result of which advertisements are placed on the
internet;

3.368Z14.5.d

a product is “ identifiable ”, in relation to advertisements, if persons in
the United Kingdom (or any part of the United Kingdom) could reasonably be
expected to be able to identify the advertisements as being for that product;

3.368Z14.5.e

a food or drink product is “less healthy” if—

3.368Z14.5.e.i

it falls within a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary
of State, and

3.368Z14.5.e.ii

it is “less healthy” in accordance with the relevant guidance;

3.368Z14.5.f

“the relevant guidance” is the guidance entitled “Nutrient Profiling Technical
Guidance” published by the Department of Health on 1 January 2011;

3.368Z14.5.g

“ food or drink SME ” means a small or medium enterprise, within the meaning
given by regulations made by the Secretary of State, of a description
specified in the regulations;

3.368Z14.5.h

“ services connected to regulated radio services ” has the meaning given by
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

3.368Z14.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)(g)  that make provision by reference to the
number of members of staff of a person may make provision about who is to
count as a member of staff (including members of staff of another person).

3.368Z14.7

The Secretary of State may, before the date specified in subsection (1)—

3.368Z14.7.a

amend that subsection so as to substitute a later date for the date that is
for the time being specified there, and

3.368Z14.7.b

make corresponding amendments to the references to that date in subsections
(11)  and  (12) .

3.368Z14.8

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this section to change the
meaning of “the relevant guidance”.

3.368Z14.9

Before making regulations under subsection  (4)  or  (8) , the Secretary of
State must consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers
appropriate.

3.368Z14.10

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (8)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

3.368Z14.11

A person is to be treated as having contravened subsection  (1)  if—

3.368Z14.11.a

at any time on or after 1 August 2021 but before 1 January 2023, the person
made a payment for advertisements to be placed on the internet on or after 1
January 2023, and

3.368Z14.11.b

if the payment had been made on 1 January 2023, the person would have
contravened subsection  (1) .

3.368Z14.12

Subsection  (11)  does not apply if the person—

3.368Z14.12.a

has put in place arrangements to ensure that they are entitled to require that
the advertisements are not placed on the internet on or after 1 January 2023,
and

3.368Z14.12.b

uses all reasonable endeavours to ensure that the advertisements are not so
placed.

########### Enforcement

3.368Z15

3.368Z15.1

Where the appropriate regulatory authority determine that a person is
contravening or has contravened section  368Z14  they may do one or both of
the following—

3.368Z15.1.a

give the person an enforcement notification;

3.368Z15.1.b

impose a financial penalty on the person in accordance with section  368Z16 .

3.368Z15.2

The appropriate regulatory authority must not make a determination as
mentioned in subsection  (1)  unless—

3.368Z15.2.a

there are reasonable grounds for believing that a contravention of section
368Z14  is occurring or has occurred, and

3.368Z15.2.b

they have allowed the person an opportunity to make representations about that
apparent contravention.

3.368Z15.3

An enforcement notification is a notification which—

3.368Z15.3.a

specifies the determination made as mentioned in subsection (1),

3.368Z15.3.b

imposes requirements on the person to take such steps for complying with
section  368Z14  and for remedying the consequences of the contravention as
may be specified in the notification,

3.368Z15.3.c

fixes a reasonable period for the taking of those steps, and

3.368Z15.3.d

sets out the reasons for the appropriate regulatory authority’s decision to
give the enforcement notification.

3.368Z15.4

The requirements specified in an enforcement notification may include
requirements to do one or more of the following—

3.368Z15.4.a

instruct or request specified persons to remove specified advertisements from
the internet;

3.368Z15.4.b

arrange for specified advertisements to be modified in specified ways.

3.368Z15.5

A person to whom an enforcement notification is given must comply with it.

3.368Z15.6

The duty under subsection  (5)  is enforceable in civil proceedings by the
appropriate regulatory authority—

3.368Z15.6.a

for an injunction,

3.368Z15.6.b

for specific performance of a statutory duty under section 45 of the Court of
Session Act 1988, or

3.368Z15.6.c

for any other appropriate remedy or relief.

3.368Z15.7

If a person to whom an enforcement notification has been given does not comply
with it, the appropriate regulatory authority may impose a financial penalty
on that person in accordance with section  368Z16 .

########### Financial penalties

3.368Z16

3.368Z16.1

The amount of a penalty imposed on a person under section  368Z15  is to be
such amount not exceeding the maximum penalty as the appropriate regulatory
authority determine to be—

3.368Z16.1.a

appropriate, and

3.368Z16.1.b

proportionate to the contravention in respect of which it is imposed.

3.368Z16.2

The maximum penalty is—

3.368Z16.2.a

in a case in which the person carries on a relevant business, an amount not
exceeding the greater of—

3.368Z16.2.a.i

5% of the turnover of the person’s relevant business for the relevant period,
and

3.368Z16.2.a.ii

£250,000;

3.368Z16.2.b

in any other case, £250,000.

3.368Z16.3

For the purposes of this section—

3.368Z16.3.a

a person’s “relevant business” is so much of any business carried on by the
person as involves or is associated with the manufacture or sale of less
healthy food or drink products;

3.368Z16.3.b

“ relevant period ”, in relation to a person’s relevant business, means—

3.368Z16.3.b.i

except in a case falling within sub-paragraph  (ii)  or  (iii) , the period of
one year ending with the 31 March before the time at which the penalty is
imposed;

3.368Z16.3.b.ii

in the case of a person who at the time at which the penalty is imposed has
been carrying on that business for a period of less than a year, the period,
ending with that time, during which the person has been carrying it on;

3.368Z16.3.b.iii

in the case of a person who at the time at which the penalty is imposed has
ceased to carry on that business, the period of one year ending with the time
when the person ceased to carry it on;

3.368Z16.3.c

the amount of the turnover of a person’s relevant business for the relevant
period is to be calculated by the appropriate regulatory authority in
accordance with the following sub-paragraphs—

3.368Z16.3.c.i

the amount is to be calculated in conformity with accounting practices and
principles which are generally accepted in the United Kingdom;

3.368Z16.3.c.ii

the amount is limited to the amounts derived by the person from the relevant
business after deduction of sales rebates, value added tax and other taxes
directly related to turnover;

3.368Z16.3.c.iii

where the person’s relevant business consists of two or more undertakings that
each prepare accounts, the amount is to be calculated by adding together the
turnover of each, save that no account is to be taken of any turnover
resulting from the supply of goods or the provision of services between them.

3.368Z16.4

In determining the amount of a penalty under subsection  (1)  the appropriate
regulatory authority must have regard to any statement published by OFCOM
under section 392 (guidelines to be followed in determining amount of
penalties).

3.368Z16.5

A financial penalty imposed under this section, if not paid within the period
fixed by the appropriate regulatory authority, is to be recoverable by the
appropriate regulatory authority as a debt due to them from the person obliged
to pay it.

3.368Z16.6

Where a financial penalty is imposed under this section in respect of matters
appearing to OFCOM to have a connection with Northern Ireland and no
connection with the rest of the United Kingdom, the penalty must be paid into
the Consolidated Fund of Northern Ireland.

3.368Z16.7

In any other case, a financial penalty imposed under this section is to be
paid into the Consolidated Fund of the United Kingdom.

########### Power to demand information

3.368Z17

3.368Z17.1

The appropriate regulatory authority may give a person a notice demanding
information that the authority require for the purpose of carrying out their
functions under this Part.

3.368Z17.2

The notice may relate to any information that the person appears to have or be
able to generate.

3.368Z17.3

A notice under this section must—

3.368Z17.3.a

describe the required information,

3.368Z17.3.b

fix a reasonable period within which the information is to be provided, and

3.368Z17.3.c

set out the appropriate regulatory authority’s reasons for requiring it.

3.368Z17.4

A notice under this section may specify the manner in which the information is
to be provided.

3.368Z17.5

The appropriate regulatory authority may not require the provision of
information under this section unless they have given the person from whom it
is required an opportunity of making representations to them about the matters
appearing to them to provide grounds for making the request.

3.368Z17.6

Section  368Z15  applies in relation to a failure to comply with a demand for
information imposed under this section as if that failure were a contravention
of section  368Z14 .

3.368Z17.7

In this section “ information ” includes copies of advertisements.

########### Guidance

3.368Z18

3.368Z18.1

The appropriate regulatory authority must draw up and, from time to time,
review and revise, guidance setting out their intentions concerning the
exercise of their functions under this Part.

3.368Z18.2

The appropriate regulatory authority must consult the Secretary of State
before drawing up or revising the guidance.

3.368Z18.3

The appropriate regulatory authority must publish the guidance and any revised
guidance in such manner as they consider appropriate for bringing it to the
attention of the persons who, in their opinion, are likely to be affected by
it.

########### The appropriate regulatory authority

3.368Z19

3.368Z19.1

OFCOM may designate any body corporate to be, to the extent provided by the
designation, the appropriate regulatory authority for the purposes of any
provision of this Part, subject to subsection  (9) .

3.368Z19.2

To the extent that no body is designated for a purpose, OFCOM is the
appropriate regulatory authority for that purpose.

3.368Z19.3

Where a body is designated for a purpose, OFCOM may act as the appropriate
regulatory authority for that purpose concurrently with or in place of that
body.

3.368Z19.4

OFCOM may provide a designated body with assistance (including financial
assistance) in connection with any of the functions of the body under this
Part.

3.368Z19.5

A designation may in particular—

3.368Z19.5.a

provide for a body to be the appropriate regulatory authority in relation to
advertisements of a specified description;

3.368Z19.5.b

provide that a function of the appropriate regulatory authority is exercisable
by the designated body—

3.368Z19.5.b.i

to such extent as may be specified;

3.368Z19.5.b.ii

either generally or in such circumstances as may be specified;

3.368Z19.5.b.iii

either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as may be specified.

3.368Z19.6

The conditions that may be specified pursuant to subsection  (5)(b)(iii)
include a condition to the effect that a function may, generally or in
specified circumstances, be exercised by the body only with the agreement of
OFCOM.

3.368Z19.7

A designation has effect for such period as may be specified and may be
revoked by OFCOM at any time.

3.368Z19.8

OFCOM must publish any designation in such manner as they consider appropriate
for bringing it to the attention of persons who, in their opinion, are likely
to be affected by it.

3.368Z19.9

OFCOM may not designate a body unless, as respects that designation, they are
satisfied that the body—

3.368Z19.9.a

is a fit and proper body to be designated,

3.368Z19.9.b

has consented to being designated,

3.368Z19.9.c

has access to financial resources that are adequate to ensure the effective
performance of its functions as the appropriate regulatory authority (taking
into account any financial assistance that OFCOM intends to provide under
subsection  (4) ),

3.368Z19.9.d

is sufficiently independent of persons who carry on business that involves or
is associated with the manufacture or sale of less healthy food or drink
products, and

3.368Z19.9.e

will, in performing any function to which the designation relates, have regard
in all cases—

3.368Z19.9.e.i

to the principles under which regulatory activities should be transparent,
accountable, proportionate, consistent and targeted only at cases in which
action is needed, and

3.368Z19.9.e.ii

to such of the matters mentioned in section 3(4) as appear to the body to be
relevant in the circumstances.

3.368Z19.10

Subject to any enactment or rule of law restricting the disclosure or use of
information by OFCOM or by a designated body—

3.368Z19.10.a

a designated body may provide information to another designated body for use
by that other body in connection with any of its functions as the appropriate
regulatory authority;

3.368Z19.10.b

a designated body may provide information to OFCOM for use by OFCOM in
connection with any of their functions under this Part;

3.368Z19.10.c

OFCOM may provide information to a designated body for use by that body in
connection with any of its functions as the appropriate regulatory authority.

3.368Z19.11

In carrying out their functions as the appropriate regulatory authority, a
designated body may carry out, commission or support (financially or
otherwise) research.

3.368Z19.12

In this section—

      “ designation ” means a designation under this section and cognate
expressions are to be construed accordingly;           “ specified ” means
specified in a designation.

########### Power to amend this Part to extend prohibition

3.368Z20

3.368Z20.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend this Part for the purpose of
prohibiting persons from doing either or both of the following (so far as not
already prohibited)—

3.368Z20.1.a

placing on the internet advertisements for an identifiable less healthy food
or drink product;

3.368Z20.1.b

making arrangements for advertisements for an identifiable less healthy food
or drink product to be placed on the internet.

3.368Z20.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1) —

3.368Z20.2.a

“ placing ” includes leaving in place;

3.368Z20.2.b

“ placed ” includes continues to be placed.

3.368Z20.3

The provision which may be made by regulations under subsection  (1)  by
virtue of section 402(3)(c) includes provision repealing, revoking or amending
provision made by or under any of the following whenever passed or made—

3.368Z20.3.a

an Act;

3.368Z20.3.b

an Act of the Scottish Parliament;

3.368Z20.3.c

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru;

3.368Z20.3.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

3.368Z20.4

Before making regulations under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

3.368Z20.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (1)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

########### Interpretation

3.368Z21

In this Part—

      “ appropriate regulatory authority ” is to be construed in accordance
with section  368Z19 ;           “ less healthy ”, in relation to a food or
drink product, has the meaning given by section  368Z14 (5)(e) .

##### Consequential amendments

4

The Communications Act 2003 is amended as follows.

5

In section 368C (on-demand programme services: duties of the appropriate
regulatory authority), after subsection (5) insert—

5.6

The appropriate regulatory authority must draw up and, from time to time,
review and revise, guidance setting out their intentions concerning the
exercise of their functions under this Part in relation to the prohibition
imposed by section 368FA (advertising: less healthy food and drink).

5.7

The appropriate regulatory authority must consult the Secretary of State
before drawing up or revising guidance under subsection  (6) .

6

In section 402(2) (instruments subject to negative procedure) —

6.a

in paragraph (a) omit “or regulations under section 368BC”;

6.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

6.b.aza

regulations under—

6.b.aza.i

section  321A (7)  (see subsection  (9)  of that section),

6.b.aza.ii

section 368BC (see subsection (7) of that section),

6.b.aza.iii

section  368FA (7)  (see subsection  (9)  of that section),

6.b.aza.iv

section  368Z14 (8)  (see subsection  (10)  of that section), or

6.b.aza.v

section  368Z20  (see subsection  (5)  of that section),

.

Licensing of cosmetic procedures

Section 180

##### Introduction

1

This Schedule is about the provision that may be made by regulations under
section 180.

##### Grant of licence

2

The regulations may—

2.a

require a local authority not to grant a licence unless satisfied as to a
matter specified in the regulations;

2.b

require a local authority to have regard, in deciding whether to grant a
licence, to a matter specified in the regulations.

3

The regulations may make provision requiring a local authority not to grant a
premises licence unless the premises have been inspected in accordance with
the regulations.

##### Licence conditions

4

4.1

The regulations may make provision for the grant of a licence subject to
conditions.

4.2

Provision of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) may—

4.2.a

enable a local authority to attach conditions to a licence;

4.2.b

require a local authority to attach to a licence a condition specified in the
regulations.

##### Duration of licence etc

5

5.1

The regulations may make provision about the duration, renewal, variation,
suspension or revocation of licences.

5.2

The provision that may be made under sub-paragraph  (1)  includes provision
conferring power on a court by which a person is convicted of an offence under
the regulations to vary, suspend or revoke a licence.

##### Reviews and appeals

6

The regulations may make provision for—

6.a

the review of decisions under the regulations;

6.b

appeals against decisions under the regulations.

##### Offences

7

7.1

The regulations may create offences in relation to—

7.1.a

the breach of a prohibition imposed by virtue of section 180 (1) ;

7.1.b

the breach of a condition attached to a licence;

7.1.c

the provision of false or misleading information to a local authority in
connection with anything done under the regulations.

7.2

The regulations must provide for any such offence to be punishable on summary
conviction with a fine or a fine not exceeding an amount specified, or
determined in accordance with, the regulations.

##### Financial penalties

8

8.1

The regulations may confer power on a local authority to impose a financial
penalty in relation to—

8.1.a

the breach of a prohibition imposed by virtue of section 180(1);

8.1.b

the breach of a condition attached to a licence.

8.2

The amount of the financial penalty is to be specified in, or determined in
accordance with, the regulations.

8.3

If the regulations confer power to impose a financial penalty in respect of
conduct for which a criminal offence is created under the regulations, they
must provide that a person is not liable to such a penalty in respect of
conduct for which the person has been convicted of the offence.

8.4

If the regulations confer power to impose a financial penalty they must
include provision—

8.4.a

requiring the local authority, before imposing a financial penalty on a
person, to give the person written notice (a “notice of intent”) of the
proposed financial penalty;

8.4.b

ensuring that the person is given an opportunity to make representations about
the proposed financial penalty;

8.4.c

requiring the local authority, after the period for making representations, to
decide whether to impose the financial penalty;

8.4.d

requiring the local authority, if it decides to impose the financial penalty,
to give the person notice in writing (a “final notice”) imposing the penalty;

8.4.e

enabling a person on whom a financial penalty is imposed to appeal to a court
or tribunal in accordance with the regulations;

8.4.f

as to the powers of the court or tribunal on such an appeal.

8.5

The provision that may be made by the regulations by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1)  includes provision—

8.5.a

enabling a notice of intent or final notice to be withdrawn or amended;

8.5.b

requiring the local authority to withdraw a final notice in circumstances
specified in the regulations;

8.5.c

for a financial penalty to be increased by an amount specified in or
determined in accordance with the regulations in the event of late payment;

8.5.d

as to how financial penalties are recoverable.

##### Enforcement

9

The regulations may confer on a local authority the function of enforcing the
regulations in its area.

##### Fees

10

The regulations may include provision for fees in relation to the carrying out
of functions of a local authority under or in connection with the regulations
(including the cost of its enforcement functions under the regulations).

##### Guidance

11

The regulations may require a local authority, in carrying out functions under
the regulations, to have regard to guidance published by the Secretary of
State.

##### Interpretation

12

12.1

In this Schedule—

“ grant ”, in relation to a licence, includes vary or renew; “ licence ” means
a personal licence or premises licence; “ personal licence ” has the meaning
given by section 180 (2) ; “ premises licence ” has the meaning given by
section 180 (2) .

12.2

Nothing in this Schedule is to be read as limiting the scope of the power to
make regulations under section 180.

