Title: Highgate Cemetery Act 2022
Date: 2022-04-07
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukla/2022/1

## Highgate Cemetery Act 2022

      WHEREAS —         The London Cemetery Company (“ LCC ”) was incorporated
by an Act of the sixth and seventh years of the reign of His Majesty King
William the Fourth, entitled “An Act for establishing Cemeteries for the
Interment of the Dead, Northward, Southward, and Eastward of the Metropolis,
by a Company to be called “ The London Cemetery Company ” (“ the 1836 Act ”)
and, under the powers of that Act, purchased lands formerly in the urban
district of Saint Pancras, in the county of Middlesex, and now in the London
Borough of Camden (“the Borough”) and constructed a cemetery (“the cemetery”)
on a portion of the said lands:           Further provisions were made with
regard to the cemetery and further powers were conferred on LCC by an Act of
the sixth year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, entitled “An Act
for amending the Act establishing “The London Cemetery Company” and the London
Cemetery Company Act 1911:           The cemetery is situated on that portion
of the lands purchased by LCC under the 1836 Act which lies on the east and
west sides of Swains Lane in the Borough:           The Friends of Highgate
Cemetery Trust (“ the Trust ”) is now the registered proprietor of the
cemetery, and operates and manages the cemetery as a public burial ground in
accordance with the Trust's charitable objects:           In order that better
use may be made of the land in the cemetery for burials, it is expedient that
the Trust be authorised to extinguish certain rights of burial granted in
graves in the cemetery and to disturb, or authorise the disturbance of, human
remains interred in such graves and also in graves where no rights of burial
exist, for the purpose of increasing the space for further interments in such
graves and conserving the cemetery and to use appropriately or remove
altogether from the cemetery memorials on such graves:           It is
expedient that the other provisions contained in this Act should be enacted:
The objects of this Act cannot be attained without the authority of
Parliament:                 May it therefore please your Majesty that it may
be enacted, and be it enacted, by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and
with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons,
in this present Parliament assembled, and by  the authority of the same, as
follows:—

### Citation and commencement

1

This Act may be cited as the Highgate Cemetery Act 2022 and comes into force
at the end of 28 days beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

### Interpretation

2

In this Act—

      “ the 1836 Act ” means the Act of the sixth and seventh years of the
reign of His Majesty King William the Fourth, entitled “An Act for
establishing Cemeteries for the Interment of the Dead, Northward, Southward,
and Eastward of the Metropolis, by a Company to be called “The London Cemetery
Company”;           “ burial ” includes the interment of cremated remains and
“ right of burial ” includes “right of interment” accordingly;           “ the
burial authority ” means the Trust or another person to whom any or all of the
benefit of the provisions of this Act and such related statutory rights have
been transferred;           “ the cemetery ” means Highgate Cemetery referred
to in the preamble to this Act, constructed under the 1836 Act;           “
civil partner ” includes former civil partner;           “ Commonwealth war
burial ” means a burial of any member of the armed forces of His Majesty who
died in the war of 1914 to 1921 or in the war of 1939 to 1947 or of any other
person for whose burial the Commonwealth War Graves Commission is responsible;
“ Commonwealth war memorial ” means any memorial erected, owned or maintained
by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission;           “ expired ”, in relation
to a right of burial, means that the right has ceased to exist, whether by
reason of any fixed period for which the right was granted having ended or the
right having been surrendered, forfeited or otherwise determined, or for any
other reason other than the right having been extinguished in accordance with
the provisions of section 4;           “ grave ” includes any grave space and
any crypt, vault, catacomb, arch, brick grave, mausoleum, columbarium or other
place of interment;           “ the LCC ” means the London Cemetery Company
established under the 1836 Act;           “ memorial ” means any monument,
headpiece, headstone, flatstone, slab, footstone, borderstone, kerbstone,
tombstone or tablet, and includes any wall, kerb or railing protecting,
enclosing or marking a grave or grave space or memorial (including any
permanent covering thereon), or any other commemorative object placed in the
cemetery including vases, flower containers or other similar objects;
“ protected grave ” means a grave designated as a protected grave by the
burial authority under section 6(3);           “ public or common grave ”
means a grave in respect of which no right of burial has been acquired by or
granted to, or has otherwise vested in, any individual or body other than a
local authority or the burial authority;           “ register of grants ”
means the register of grants of exclusive rights of burial, and of rights to
erect or place memorials, maintained by the burial authority;           “
registered address ” means an address registered in the register of grants; “
registered number ” means a number registered in the register of grants;
“registered owner”—         in relation to any right of burial means the
person at the time in question named as the owner in the register of grants;
in relation to any memorial means the person at the time in question named in
the said register as the person to whom the right to erect or place that
memorial has been granted or if no such person is named, the registered owner
of the right of burial in the grave in or on which the memorial is erected or
placed; and           in relation to any right that has expired or been
extinguished, means the last person so registered;                 “ relative
”, in relation to any person, means any of the following—         that
person's spouse;           that person's civil partner;           any lineal
ancestor, lineal descendant, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece or
first cousin of that person or of that person's spouse or civil partner;
“ spouse ” includes former spouse; and           “ the Trust ” means the
Friends of Highgate Cemetery Trust, a charitable trust with the company number
03157806.

### Power to operate and maintain the cemetery

3

Subject to the provisions of this Act, the burial authority may do all such
things as it considers necessary or desirable for the proper management,
regulation and control of the cemetery.

### Power to extinguish rights of burial

4

4.1

Subject to subsection (2) and section 6, where in respect of any grave space
in the cemetery a right of burial has not been exercised for 75 years or more
from the date of the latest burial in the grave space or, if there has been no
burial in the grave space, from the date of the grant of the right of burial
in the grave space, the burial authority may, by notice given in accordance
with the provisions of this section, extinguish the right of burial in that
grave space.

4.2

No right of burial granted after the passing of this Act for any period longer
than 75 years is to be extinguished under this section.

4.3

For the purposes of subsection (2), any right of burial granted by the LCC
having effect as if granted by the Trust under section 9 is not to be taken as
having been granted after the passing of this Act.

4.4

The power of the burial authority under subsection (1) to extinguish a right
of burial in any grave space includes the power to remove any memorial in or
on the grave space.

4.5

Before extinguishing a right of burial or removing any memorial under the
powers of this section, the burial authority must—

4.5.a

publish a notice in a newspaper of their intention to do so once in each of
two successive weeks, with an interval between the dates of publication of not
less than six clear days;

4.5.b

publish such a notice and maintain that notice until the date specified under
subsection (6)(b)—

4.5.b.i

on the burial authority's website; or

4.5.b.ii

by using a means of electronic publication that the burial authority considers
equivalent for the purposes of drawing attention to the burial authority's
proposals;

4.5.c

display such a notice in a conspicuous position—

4.5.c.i

at each of the principal entrances to the cemetery; and

4.5.c.ii

so far as is reasonably practicable, at or near the grave; and

4.5.d

serve such a notice upon—

4.5.d.i

the registered owner of the right of burial at that person's registered
address;

4.5.d.ii

if different, the registered owner of any memorial proposed to be removed at
that person's registered address;

4.5.d.iii

the Commonwealth War Graves Commission; and

4.5.d.iv

the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England.

4.6

Each of the notices must—

4.6.a

contain full particulars of the burial authority's proposals including a
specification of the registered number or other description of all grave
spaces in respect of which it is proposed that rights of burial should be
extinguished and stating whether it is proposed that any memorials should be
removed;

4.6.b

specify the date on which it is intended that the rights should be
extinguished and any memorial removed, which date must not be earlier than six
months after the date of the last of the publications, or the date on which
the notice is first displayed, or the date on which the notice is served,
whichever is the last; and

4.6.c

state the effect of subsections (9) to (11), (13) and (14).

4.7

A notice under subsection (5)(b) must contain the name, where known, of the
registered owner of the right of burial or memorial.

4.8

A notice under subsection (5)(a), (c) or (d) must include details of where the
notice under subsection (5)(b) may be found and a statement that the notice
under subsection (5)(b) contains the information described in subsection (7).

4.9

If notice of objection to the extinguishment of a right of burial in any grave
space is given to the burial authority before the date specified under
subsection (6)(b)—

4.9.a

by the registered owner of the right of burial and that objection is not
withdrawn, the right of burial to which the objection relates must not be
extinguished under this section, or

4.9.b

by any other person, and that objection is not withdrawn, any rights or
memorial to which the objection relates must not be extinguished or removed
unless the Secretary of State consents to the extinguishment.

4.10

An extinguishment under subsection (1) takes effect—

4.10.a

where no notice of objection is given under subsection (9), on the date
specified under subsection (6)(b),

4.10.b

where notice of objection is given under subsection (9) and the objection is
withdrawn, on the date specified under subsection (6)(b) or the day after the
objection is withdrawn, whichever is later, or

4.10.c

where the Secretary of State consents to the extinguishment under subsection
(9)(b), on the day after that consent is given.

4.11

Any memorial removed by the burial authority under this section remains the
property of the owner of it, but if such owner does not claim it within a
period of six months after the date specified under subsection (6)(b), the
burial authority may put the memorial to such use as the burial authority
considers appropriate or the burial authority may dispose of it.

4.12

The burial authority must publish on its website or by other appropriate
means, and make available on request, a policy setting out how it will
exercise its powers under this section in relation to memorials.

4.13

As compensation for any right of burial extinguished under this section, the
burial authority must on a claim being made by the registered owner of the
right of burial within six months from the extinguishment of that right
either—

4.13.a

pay to the owner such sum representing the value of that right as may be
agreed between the burial authority and the owner or, in default of agreement,
determined by arbitration; or

4.13.b

confirm in writing to the owner that the right of burial extinguished is to be
revived and, if confirmation is given under this paragraph, the right of
burial is deemed not to have been extinguished under subsection (1).

4.14

In any arbitration under subsection (13)(a), the reference must be to a single
arbitrator to be appointed by agreement between the parties or, in default of
agreement, to be appointed by the President of the Royal Institution of
Chartered Surveyors on the application of either party after giving notice in
writing to the other party.

### Power to disturb human remains

5

5.1

Subject to section 6, the burial authority may disturb or authorise the
disturbance of human remains interred in a grave in the cemetery for the
purpose of increasing the space for interments in the grave or conserving the
cemetery where—

5.1.a

the burial authority has extinguished rights of burial in the grave under
section 4;

5.1.b

the grave is a public or common grave; or

5.1.c

any right of burial granted in relation to the grave has expired.

5.2

A person authorised by or under subsection (1)(b) or (c) to disturb human
remains may remove any memorial in or on the grave space relating to the
person whose remains are proposed to be disturbed.

5.3

No human remains may be disturbed under this section if they have been
interred for a period of less than 75 years.

5.4

Any human remains disturbed under subsection (1) must be reinterred either in
their original grave or in another grave within the cemetery.

5.5

Before disturbing any human remains, or removing any memorial, under this
section the burial authority must—

5.5.a

publish a notice in a newspaper of their intention to do so once in each of
two successive weeks, with an interval between the dates of publication of not
less than six clear days;

5.5.b

publish such a notice and maintain that notice until the date specified under
subsection (6)(b)—

5.5.b.i

on the burial authority's website; or

5.5.b.ii

by using a means of electronic publication that the burial authority considers
equivalent for the purposes of drawing attention to the burial authority's
proposals;

5.5.c

display such a notice in a conspicuous position—

5.5.c.i

at each of the principal entrances to the cemetery; and

5.5.c.ii

so far as is reasonably practicable, at or near the grave; and

5.5.d

serve such a notice upon—

5.5.d.i

the registered owner of any extinguished or expired right of burial or any
memorial erected or placed in or on the grave space at that person's
registered address;

5.5.d.ii

the Commonwealth War Graves Commission; and

5.5.d.iii

the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England.

5.6

Each of the notices referred to in subsection (5) must—

5.6.a

contain full particulars of the burial authority's proposals including a
specification of the registered number or other description of all graves in
which it is proposed that the human remains are to be disturbed and stating
whether it is proposed that any memorials should be removed;

5.6.b

specify the date after which it is intended that the works proposed in the
notice should be undertaken, which date must not be earlier than six months
after the date of the last of the publications, the date on which the notice
is first displayed, or the date on which the notice is served, whichever is
the last; and

5.6.c

state the effect of subsection (10).

5.7

A notice under subsection (5)(b) must contain, where known, the name of the
registered owner of the right of burial or memorial and the name of any person
whose remains are proposed to be disturbed.

5.8

A notice under subsection (5)(a), (c) or (d) must include details of where the
notice under subsection (5)(b) may be found and a statement that the notice
under subsection (5)(b) contains the information described in subsection (7).

5.9

A single notice may be used for the purposes of this section and section 4.

5.10

If notice of objection to the proposed disturbance of human remains is given
to the burial authority before the date specified in subsection (6)(b) by—

5.10.a

the registered owner of the extinguished or expired right of burial;

5.10.b

the registered owner of a memorial erected or placed in or on any grave spaces
specified under subsection (6)(a), whether or not the memorial itself is
proposed to be removed;

5.10.c

a relative of the person whose remains are proposed to be disturbed,

and that objection is not withdrawn, the burial authority may not, subject to
subsection (11), disturb or authorise the disturbance of those remains.

5.11

A burial authority may disturb or authorise the disturbance of human remains
that are otherwise protected from disturbance under subsection (10) if—

5.11.a

after the expiry of a period of 25 years from the date on which notice of
objection in accordance with that subsection was last given, the burial
authority has given further notice in accordance with subsections (5) and (6)
in relation to the disturbance of those remains; and

5.11.b

no notice of objection in accordance with subsection (10) is given in relation
to that further notice or, if such notice of objection is given, it is
withdrawn.

5.12

Any memorial removed by the burial authority under this section remains the
property of the owner of it, but if such owner does not claim it within a
period of six months after the date specified in subsection (6)(b), the burial
authority may put the memorial to such use as the burial authority considers
appropriate or the burial authority may dispose of it.

5.13

 The burial authority must publish on its website or by other appropriate
means, and make available on request, a policy setting out how it will
exercise its powers under this section in relation to memorials.

5.14

 A person authorised by or under subsection (1) to disturb human remains must
comply with any directions given by the Secretary of State with respect to the
removal and reinterment of any human remains in any case other than a case
falling within subsection (16).

5.15

 Subject to subsection (16), nothing in this section affects the jurisdiction
of the consistory court of the diocese over consecrated land which is used, or
is available for use, for the interment of human remains.

5.16

Where the burial authority proposes to disturb any human remains in
consecrated land, the burial authority may not exercise its powers under this
section without first obtaining a faculty, with or without conditions attached
to it, from the consistory court of the diocese in which the land is situated,
and any objection to the proposed disturbance of human remains from
consecrated land by any person under subsection (10) must be heard and
determined by that consistory court.

5.17

The provisions of section 25 of the Burial Act 1857 (offence of removal of
body from burial ground) do not apply to a removal carried out in accordance
with the provisions of this section.

### Further protection for certain graves

6

6.1

The burial authority must obtain the written agreement of the Commonwealth War
Graves Commission before exercising the powers conferred by sections 4 and 5
in respect of—

6.1.a

any grave in which there is a Commonwealth war burial, or

6.1.b

any grave space in or on which there is a Commonwealth war memorial.

6.2

The burial authority must obtain the written agreement of the Historic
Buildings and Monuments Commission for England and the London Borough of
Camden before exercising the powers conferred by sections 4 and 5 in respect
of a protected grave.

6.3

The burial authority may from time to time, in consultation with or at the
request of the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England and the
London Borough of Camden, designate a grave as a protected grave.

6.4

The burial authority may from time to time, following consultation with the
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England and the London Borough
of Camden, revoke the designation of any grave as a protected grave.

6.5

The burial authority must maintain a record of any protected grave.

6.6

The record maintained under subsection (5) must at all reasonable times be
available for consultation by any person free of charge.

### Register of burials and other records

7

7.1

The burial authority must cause a register to be made of each burial in the
cemetery.

7.2

The register maintained under subsection (1) shall include information as the
burial authority sees fit and must include—

7.2.a

the date of the burial;

7.2.b

the registered number of the grave;

7.2.c

the names, in full, and age of the person whose remains are buried;

7.2.d

whether the burial space is consecrated;

7.2.e

whether the grave is a public or common grave;

7.2.f

the approximate location of the burial space in a manner that reasonably
allows for its identification; and

7.2.g

a record of any remains in the cemetery disturbed under the powers conferred
by section 5, showing—

7.2.g.i

the date of the disturbance;

7.2.g.ii

the registered number of the grave;

7.2.g.iii

the names, in full, of the person whose remains are disturbed;

7.2.g.iv

the number of the entry in the register for the burial;

7.2.g.v

particulars of the authority for disturbance; and

7.2.g.vi

the registered number of the grave in which the remains are reinterred, its
approximate location and the date of reinterment.

7.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after any burial or disturbance, the burial
authority must complete the register in accordance with paragraphs (a) to (g)
of subsection (2).

7.4

The burial authority must cause a record to be made of each memorial removed
under this Act containing—

7.4.a

a copy of any legible inscription on it;

7.4.b

if it is intended to preserve the memorial within the cemetery, a statement
showing where it has been taken; and

7.4.c

if the memorial is disposed of, a statement of the details of its disposal,

and the burial authority must deposit a copy of the record with the Registrar
General of England and Wales.

7.5

The register and record maintained under subsections (2) and (4) must at all
reasonable times be available for consultation by any person free of charge.

### Byelaws

8

8.1

The Trust may make byelaws in relation to the operation and maintenance of the
cemetery.

8.2

Without limiting the scope of subsection (1), the Trust may make byelaws for
the purposes of regulating the use of the cemetery by members of the public
and the conduct of burials in the cemetery.

8.3

Byelaws made under this section may make it an offence for any person to
contravene, or fail to comply with, the provisions of the byelaws, and for
such person to be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3
on the standard scale.

8.4

In any proceedings for such an offence it shall be a defence for the person
charged to prove—

8.4.a

that the person took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the commission of the offence; or

8.4.b

that the person had a reasonable excuse for the action or failure to act.

8.5

Byelaws made by the Trust under this section do not have effect until they are
confirmed by the Secretary of State, and section 236 of the Local Government
Act 1972 (procedure for byelaws) applies to their confirmation, as if the
Trust were a local authority.

### Repeals and savings

9

9.1

Subject to subsection (2), the following enactments are repealed so far as
they relate to the cemetery—

9.1.a

the 1836 Act;

9.1.b

the Act of the sixth year of the reign of Her Majesty Queen Victoria, entitled
“An Act for amending the Act establishing “The London Cemetery Company”; and

9.1.c

the London Cemetery Company Act 1911.

9.2

Sections 118 and 119 of the 1836 Act are repealed so far as they relate to the
cemetery on the date on which byelaws made under section 8 come into
operation.

9.3

The LCC shall cease to exist and all property and all rights, liabilities,
interests, privileges and functions vested in the LCC in respect of the
cemetery shall be vested in the Trust as if in all respects the Trust were the
same person as the LCC.

9.4

Notwithstanding the repeals under subsection (1), anything done (or having
effect as if done) by the LCC in connection with the operation, management or
improvement of the cemetery, including without limitation the grant of any
burial rights, has effect, so far as necessary for continuing its effect after
the commencement of this Act, as if done by the Trust on the date it was done
by the LCC.

