Title: Integrated Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-11-28
Description: Make provision about integrated education; and for connected purposes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/15

## Integrated Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and assented to
by Her Majesty as follows:

### Integrated education

#### Meaning of “integrated education”

1

1.1

“ Integrated education ” means the education together, in an integrated
school, of—

1.1.a

those of different cultures and religious beliefs and of none, including
reasonable numbers of both Protestant and Roman Catholic children or young
persons;

1.1.b

those who are experiencing socio-economic deprivation and those who are not;
and

1.1.c

those of different abilities.

1.2

An “integrated school” is a school which—

1.2.a

intentionally supports, protects and advances an ethos of diversity, respect
and understanding between those of different cultures and religious beliefs
and of none, between those of different socio-economic backgrounds and between
those of different abilities, and

1.2.b

has acquired—

1.2.b.i

grant-maintained integrated status, or

1.2.b.ii

controlled integrated status

under the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989.

1.3

Subsections (1) and (2) apply for the purposes of—

1.3.a

this Act;

1.3.b

the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989;

1.3.c

section 2(3A) of the Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (inserted by
section 4 of this Act);

1.3.d

the Shared Education (Northern Ireland) Act 2016; and

1.3.e

any other provision of Northern Ireland legislation (unless it contains a
different definition).

#### Purpose of integrated education

2

The purpose of integrated education is—

2.a

to deliver educational benefits to children and young persons;

2.b

to promote awareness and appreciation of human rights;

2.c

to promote equality of opportunity;

2.d

to promote good relations; and

2.e

to promote respect for identity, diversity and community cohesion.

#### Advisory body

3

In exercising any functions relating to integrated education the Department of
Education must consult with—

3.a

any body appearing to the Department of Education to have as an objective the
encouragement or promotion of integrated education, and if required

3.b

any other body the Department of Education considers appropriate.

### Statutory duty to support

#### Support etc. for integrated education

4

4.1

In Article 64(1) of the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989
(Department’s duties in respect of integrated education) for “to encourage and
facilitate” substitute  “to encourage, facilitate and support” .

4.2

In section 2 of the Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (functions of
Education Authority) after subsection (3) (Authority’s duties in respect of
shared education) insert—

4.2.3A

It is a duty of the Authority (so far as its powers extend) to encourage,
facilitate and support integrated education.

.

#### Meaning of support

5

5.1

A reference in any provision of Northern Ireland legislation to support for
integrated education (including support for the development of integrated
education) is a reference to—

5.1.a

identifying, assessing, monitoring and aiming to meet the demand for the
provision of integrated education within the context of area planning and the
overall sustainability of the school estate (including, in particular,
monitoring the number and success of applications for integrated education),
and

5.1.b

providing sufficient places in integrated schools to aim to meet the demand
for integrated education within the context of area planning and the overall
sustainability of the school estate (including examining evidence of expected
future demand).

5.2

In subsection (1)(a) “ monitor ” means monitor by reference to data collected
in respect of relevant catchment and other areas.

#### Duties of Department and Authority relating to the development etc. of integrated education

6

6.1

After Article 64(1) of the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989
(Department’s duty to encourage, facilitate and support the development of
integrated education) insert—

6.1.1A

In considering what steps it should take for the purposes of its duty under
subsection (1) to encourage , facilitate and support the development of
integrated education, the Department must in particular take account of any
representations made under section 3 of the Integrated Education (Northern
Ireland) Act 2022 (consultation) which relate to that duty

6.2

The Education Authority must, for the purpose of assisting its strategic
planning of the provision of education, take steps to ascertain the demand for
integrated education.

6.3

In this Act, a reference to ascertaining the demand for integrated education
is a reference to ascertaining the extent to which parents would prefer their
children to be educated at grant-maintained integrated or controlled
integrated schools rather than at schools which are not grant-maintained
integrated schools or controlled integrated schools.

6.4

The Education Authority must take the steps mentioned in subsection (2) at
such times as the Education Authority and the Department of Education agree to
be appropriate, having regard to the purpose specified in that subsection.

6.5

The duty in subsection (2) may be met by seeking the information required by
that duty together with other information about parental preferences.

6.6

In making decisions in connection with proposals about the provision of
education, including in respect of its duty to encourage, facilitate and
support integrated education, the Education Authority must have due regard to
the response to its enquiries under subsection (2) (in addition to any other
factors to which the Education Authority is required to have regard).

### Planning and strategy

#### General duty

7

7.1

Without prejudice to the generality of the duty under Article 64(1) of the
Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989, the Department of Education
must take account of that duty when—

7.1.a

developing, adopting, implementing or revising policies, strategies and plans;
and

7.1.b

designing and delivering public services.

7.2

The active fulfilment of duties in respect of support for integrated education
conferred on education bodies by this Act (or regulations made under it) shall
not prejudice or subordinate their duties in respect of promoting shared
education or the due discharge of their continuing statutory duties under
other enactments including the Shared Education (Northern Ireland) Act 2016.

#### New schools

8

8.1

Education bodies must consider integrated education when planning for the
establishment of a new school.

8.2

In exercising their functions under subsection (1), education bodies must
consult with—

8.2.a

teachers,

8.2.b

governors,

8.2.c

pupils,

8.2.d

families, and

8.2.e

sectoral and community bodies

who would, in the opinion of the relevant body, be affected by the proposal.

8.3

Education bodies must prepare and publish a report on the consultation under
subsection (2).

8.4

The report must include, in particular, an assessment in relation to—

8.4.a

the manner in which, and the extent to which, the relevant body has considered
integrated education when planning for the establishment of a new school, and

8.4.b

the levels of demand for integrated education.

8.5

In this section a “ new school ” does not include—

8.5.a

two or more existing schools that have amalgamated to create a new school,

8.5.b

an existing school that has significantly changed in size,

8.5.c

an existing school that has relocated, or

8.5.d

an Irish-medium school which comes into existence after this Act receives
Royal Assent.

8.6

The interpretation of subsection (5) will not preclude education bodies
receiving or responding supportively to applications or expressions of
interest by such schools in respect of transforming into integrated schools.

#### Integrated education strategy

9

9.1

The Department of Education must prepare, publish and maintain a strategy for
the encouragement, facilitation, support for and provision of integrated
education (“the integrated education strategy”).

9.2

The integrated education strategy must, in particular—

9.2.a

include provision for resources (including personnel) to encourage, facilitate
and support integrated education;

9.2.b

include provision designed to facilitate the maintenance and protection of the
ethos of existing and new integrated schools;

9.2.c

include arrangements for full access for integrated schools to training and
resources provided by the Education Authority and other services accessible by
publicly funded schools;

9.2.d

quantify funding commitments and identify respective resources made available
for the support for and provision of integrated education (including resources
for facilitating the establishment of new integrated schools, the expansion of
existing integrated schools and the transformation of existing schools into
integrated schools);

9.2.e

include an action plan, which must—

9.2.e.i

be prepared in consultation with persons with knowledge and experience of
integrated schools including teachers, governors, pupils, families, and
sectoral and community bodies;

9.2.e.ii

include targets (including timetables);

9.2.e.iii

include measurable benchmarks against which the success of the strategy
(including progress towards meeting targets) can be assessed;

9.2.f

include provision for reviews to provide a clear indication of how education
bodies are delivering integrated education; and

9.2.g

have due regard to the provisions of Section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act
1998 in regard to subsection (1) of this section.

9.3

Targets and benchmarks may, in particular, refer to—

9.3.a

percentages of pupils granted or denied their choice of education in an
integrated school;

9.3.b

numbers of development proposals created and delivered for expansion of
existing integrated schools;

9.3.c

numbers of schools transforming into integrated schools;

9.3.d

numbers of new integrated schools established;

9.3.e

numbers of consultations issued in respect of transformed or new integrated
schools; and

9.3.f

support provided for ensuring the success of integrated education (including
training and other resources designed to facilitate teaching within the
integrated education system).

9.4

The integrated education strategy must be published during the period of 6
months beginning with the date on which this Act comes into force.

9.5

The Department of Education must—

9.5.a

lay the strategy, and each revision, before the Assembly; and

9.5.b

cooperate with any post-legislative scrutiny exercise carried out by the
Assembly or any Committee of the Assembly in relation to the strategy or a
revision.

#### Reporting

10

10.1

The Department of Education must prepare or commission and publish a report on
integrated education—

10.1.a

during the period of 2 years beginning with the date on which this Act
receives Royal Assent; and

10.1.b

at subsequent intervals in line with the budget framing timetable but not more
frequently than every three years.

10.2

A report must include, in particular, an assessment of performance of
functions relating to integrated education under—

10.2.a

this Act;

10.2.b

the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989;

10.2.c

section 2(3A) of the Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2014 (inserted by
section 4 of this Act); and

10.2.d

any other provision of Northern Ireland legislation.

10.3

A report must include, in particular, an assessment in relation to the
reporting period of—

10.3.a

the manner in which, and the extent to which, the Department of Education has
performed its functions in respect of integrated education;

10.3.b

the manner in which, and the extent to which, other education bodies have
performed their functions in respect of integrated education;

10.3.c

the levels of demand for and supply of integrated education;

10.3.d

increase or decrease in levels of demand for and supply of integrated
education since the previous reporting period;

10.3.e

successes and failures in respect of the provision of integrated education;
and

10.3.f

the extent to which the purpose of integrated education has been achieved.

10.4

Wherever possible, the assessments in the report must operate by reference to
benchmarks identified in the action plan in the integrated education strategy.

10.5

The Department of Education must—

10.5.a

lay each report before the Assembly; and

10.5.b

cooperate with any post-legislative scrutiny exercise carried out by the
Assembly or any Committee of the Assembly in relation to the report.

10.6

As soon as is reasonably practicable after the publication of a report the
Department of Education must review and where necessary revise the integrated
education strategy.

### Final provisions

#### Regulations

11

11.1

The Department of Education must make regulations in respect of integrated
education supplementing the provisions of this Act.

11.2

The regulations may, in particular, include—

11.2.a

provision designed to ensure consistency and effectiveness in the capture of
data (including in relation to area-based data capture);

11.2.b

provision about the formulation and measuring of targets;

11.2.c

provision about the formulation and measuring of benchmarks;

11.2.d

provision about the designation of catchment or other areas for area-based
data capture;

11.2.e

provision about other aspects of assessments and monitoring;

11.2.f

provision about steps to be taken in pursuit of a duty to support integrated
education (including measures to support integrated schools);

11.2.g

provision about training provided to facilitate teaching within the integrated
education system (which may include requirements for training in diversity,
inclusive and diverse classes and other matters related to integrated
education to be incorporated in training provided as part of initial teacher
training and in teachers’ continuing professional development programmes);

11.2.h

provision for initial and continuing professional development for all
teachers, school governors, non-teaching school staff and education bodies in
respect of inclusive and diverse classes;

11.2.i

provision about inclusion of matters relating to the provision of integrated
education in the school inspection regime;

11.2.j

provision designed to encourage and enhance collaboration and coordination
between other stakeholders in relation to integrated education; and

11.2.k

provision designed to integrate assessment of demand for and supply of
integrated education in systems for the planning and development (including
housing development) or regeneration of urban and rural areas.

11.3

Regulations under this section may include any supplementary, incidental,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision the Department
considers appropriate—

11.3.a

for the general purposes, or any particular purpose, of this Act;

11.3.b

in consequence of any provision made by this Act; or

11.3.c

for giving full effect to the provisions of this Act.

11.4

Provision under subsection (3) may, in particular, include supplementary,
incidental or consequential amendments of any Northern Ireland legislation
(including amendments equivalent or similar to those effected by sections 4
and 13).

11.5

Regulations under this section may not be made unless a draft of the
regulations has been laid before and approved by a resolution of, the
Assembly.

#### Guidance

12

12.1

The Department of Education may give guidance about—

12.1.a

the implementation or application of a provision of this Act (including a
provision amending another enactment);

12.1.b

any matter in respect of which regulations under section 11 have been, or
could be, made.

12.2

The Department of Education must—

12.2.a

lay the guidance, and each revision, before the Assembly; and

12.2.b

publish the guidance in such a manner as it considers appropriate.

12.3

An education body, and integrated schools must have regard to any guidance
issued under subsection (1).

12.4

An education body may give guidance about any matter relating to the body’s
functions in respect of integrated education.

#### Consequential amendments

13

13.1

In Article 64(1) of the Education Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 1989
(Department’s duties in respect of integrated education) omit “, that is to
say the education together at school of Protestant and Roman Catholic pupils”
and insert  “and to provide support for integrated education” .

13.2

In Article 66(2) of that Order (management of grant-maintained integrated
schools) for “are such as are likely to attract to the school reasonable
numbers of both Protestant and Roman Catholic pupils” substitute  “are such as
are likely to ensure the provision of integrated education” .

13.3

In Article 71(8) of that Order (proposals for acquisition of grant-maintained
integrated status), for “be attended by reasonable numbers of both Protestant
and Roman Catholic pupils” substitute  “provide integrated education” .

13.4

In Article 79(2) of that Order (significant changes to grant-maintained
integrated schools), for “be attended by reasonable numbers of both Protestant
and Roman Catholic pupils” substitute  “provide integrated education” .

13.5

In Article 81(3)(d) of that Order (withdrawal of grant by Department) for
“attended by reasonable numbers of both Protestant and Roman Catholic pupils”
substitute  “providing integrated education” .

13.6

In Article 88 of that Order (management of controlled integrated schools) for
“attract to the school reasonable numbers of both Protestant and Roman
Catholic pupils” substitute  “ensure the provision of integrated education” .

13.7

In Article 92(6) of that Order (proposals for acquisition of controlled
integrated status), for “be attended by reasonable numbers of both Protestant
and Roman Catholic pupils” substitute  “provide integrated education” .

13.8

In Article 97 of that Order (significant changes to controlled integrated
schools), for “be attended by reasonable numbers of both Protestant and Roman
Catholic pupils” substitute  “provide integrated education” .

#### Interpretation: general

14

In this Act—

“ education bodies ” means— the Department of Education; and the Education
Authority; “ integrated education ” has the meaning given by section 1; “
integrated education strategy ” has the meaning given by section 9; “
integrated school ” has the meaning given by section 1; and

words and expressions which are defined in Article 2(2) of the Education and
Libraries (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 have the same meaning as in that
Order.

#### Commencement

15

This Act comes into operation at the end of the period of 6 months beginning
with the day on which it receives Royal Assent.

#### Short title

16

This Act may be cited as the Integrated Education Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

