Title: Miners’ Strike (Pardons) (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2022-09-11
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/6

## Miners’ Strike (Pardons) (Scotland) Act 2022

### Pardons for certain individuals convicted of certain offences committed during miners’ strike

1

1.1

A qualifying individual who has been convicted of an offence listed in
section 3  is pardoned for the offence if the conduct constituting the
offence—

1.1.a

occurred during the period beginning with 12 March 1984 and ending with 3
March 1985, and

1.1.b

in relation to—

1.1.b.i

an offence listed in section 3(a) to (c), meets condition A or condition B, or

1.1.b.ii

the offence of theft, meets condition C.

1.2

Condition A is that the conduct—

1.2.a

occurred while the individual was engaged or participating in—

1.2.a.i

activity (whether or not organised) supporting or opposing the miners’ strike,
or

1.2.a.ii

activity ancillary to such activity (for example, assembling before or after
or travelling to or from such activity), and

1.2.b

did not occur for a reason unrelated to the miners’ strike (for example, a
disagreement about a personal matter).

1.3

Condition B is that the conduct—

1.3.a

occurred in response to conduct that meets condition A, and

1.3.b

did not occur for a reason unrelated to the miners’ strike.

1.4

Condition C is that the conduct occurred because of economic hardship arising
from participation (whether by the individual or another person) in the
miners’ strike.

### Pardons: qualifying individuals

2

In section 1, “ qualifying individual ” means an individual, including a
deceased individual, who—

2.a

was a miner,

2.b

was, at the time of the commission of the offence, a member of the same
household as a miner, or

2.c

was, at the time of the commission of the offence—

2.c.i

a parent of a miner,

2.c.ii

a child of a miner, or

2.c.iii

a sibling of a miner.

### Pardons: offences

3

The offences referred to in  section 1  are—

3.a

breach of the peace,

3.b

an offence under section 3 of the Bail etc. (Scotland) Act 1980 (breach of
bail conditions),

3.c

an offence under section 41(1)(a) of the Police (Scotland) Act 1967
(obstructing police etc.),

3.d

theft.

### Pardons: supplementary

4

Section 1  does not—

4.a

affect any conviction or sentence,

4.b

give rise to any right, entitlement or liability, or

4.c

affect the Royal prerogative of mercy.

### Interpretation

5

In this Act—

      “ conviction ” includes any finding in criminal proceedings that a
person has committed an offence or done the act or made the omission charged
(including a finding linked with mental disorder or in respect of which an
admonition or absolute discharge is made), and “ convicted ” is to be
construed accordingly,           “ household ” means a group of people living
together as a family or other unit (whether or not related) in a private
dwelling, who—         have the dwelling as their only or main residence, and
share living accommodation and cooking facilities,                 “ miner ”
means an individual who at any time during the period beginning with 12 March
1984 and ending with 3 March 1985 was employed in any part of Great Britain—
by the National Coal Board established under section 1 of the Coal Industry
Nationalisation Act 1946, or           by a person holding a licence granted
under section 36(2)(a) of that Act,                 “ miners’ strike ” means
the national concerted stoppage of work by miners led by the National Union of
Mineworkers,           “ sibling of a miner ” means an individual who has at
least one parent in common with a miner.

### Commencement

6

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

### Short title

7

The short title of this Act is the Miners’ Strike (Pardons) (Scotland) Act
2022.

