Title: Monken Hadley Common Act 2022
Date: 2022-05-17
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukla/2022/2

## Monken Hadley Common Act 2022

      WHEREAS —         The Churchwardens of the Parish Church of Monken
Hadley, in the County of Middlesex (“the Churchwardens”) were incorporated by
section 115 of an Act of Parliament passed in the seventeenth year of the
reign of His Majesty King George the Third, entitled “An Act for dividing the
Chase of Enfield, in the County of Middlesex; and for other purposes therein
mentioned” (“the 1777 Act”):           The 1777 Act made provision for the
dischasement of the former Enfield Chase and to make allotments of the
dischased land to the several parishes involved, including the area now known
as Monken Hadley Common (“the Common”):           Section 5 of the 1777 Act
provided for the vesting of the ownership of the Common in the Churchwardens
and their successors forever, in trust for and for the sole benefit of the
owners and proprietors of freehold and copyhold messuages, lands and
tenements, within the parish of Monken Hadley, their heirs and assigns, and
their lessees, tenants and undertenants, for the time being, entitled to a
right of common, or other rights within Enfield Chase, according to their
several estates and interests therein:           Section 6 of the 1777 Act
provided that all trees then growing or thereafter planted for shelter or
ornament situated within 60 yards of the ancient Chase boundary shall be the
property of the owners of houses and lands next to which the trees are
standing or are planted:           Section 60 of the 1777 Act provided that
the Churchwardens (together with ten or more persons residing within the
parish of Monken Hadley and assessed to the Poor's Rates respectively at the
rate of ten pounds or upwards each) could form rules and orders for the
governance and management of the Common:           Section 60 of the 1777 Act
also provided that the Churchwardens and the rate payers mentioned above could
call meetings of those entitled to a right of common, and that any rules and
orders made under section 60 would need to be approved by a majority of those
entitled to rights of common attending such a meeting, and that the rules and
orders would then need to be confirmed in writing by a majority of owners of
land who are entitled to a right of common and who are assessed to the Land
Tax at ten pounds or more per annum:           Section 70 of the 1777 Act
provided that certain owners and occupiers of land in the parish of Monken
Hadley may bring and defend legal proceedings in the name of the
Churchwardens:           Section 71 of the 1777 Act provided that no owner or
occupier of any lands bordering the Common shall have or be entitled to have,
make or use any gates, ways and passages onto or over the Common without first
obtaining an Order of Vestry of the parish. There is a saving for any gate,
way or passage already in existence in 1777:           The 1777 Act was
repealed in error by the Statute Law Repeals Act 1978 and was reinstated by
the Statute Law Repeals Act 1993:           The Common is a Metropolitan
Common within the meaning of section 193 of the Law of Property Act 1925 and
therefore the public have rights of access for air and exercise over it:
The Commoners have not exercised their rights of common to graze animals on
the Common for many years, and the Common has for many years been used only as
a place of public recreation:           Funding for the upkeep of the Common
comes almost entirely from donations from the Friends of Hadley Common, income
from the granting of access ways and leases under the said section 71 and
income from investments:           The Churchwardens have no desire to
continue to play any further part in the ownership or management of the Common
and, whilst involved in the management committee of the Common and the
execution of legal documents, have played no active role in the day to day
management of the Common for many years:           Since 1981 the management
of the Common has been exercised under the authority of the Churchwardens by a
management committee established under rules made under the said section 60:
The identity of most of the Commoners who may be entitled to agree to and
confirm rules and orders under the said section 60 is unknown:           There
is therefore some doubt over the validity of the existing rules and orders
given the lack of participation of the Commoners:           It is expedient
that the ownership of the Common be transferred to a new charitable body, that
the new body be provided with functions that are cast in modern terms and that
certain provisions of the 1777 Act be disapplied in relation to the Common:
A body known as the Monken Hadley Common Trust has been formed and an
application has been made to the Charity Commission for it to be registered as
a charitable incorporated organisation:           The objects of this Act
cannot be attained without the authority of Parliament:                 May it
therefore please Your Majesty that it may be enacted, and be it enacted, by
the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament
assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Citation

1

This Act may be cited as the Monken Hadley Common Act 2022.

### Interpretation

2

In this Act—

      “the 1777 Act” means the Act of Parliament passed in the seventeenth
year of the reign of His Majesty King George the Third, entitled “An Act for
dividing the Chase of Enfield, in the County of Middlesex; and for other
Purposes therein mentioned”;           “the appointed day” means a day fixed
by the Churchwardens in accordance with section 13;           “the Trust”
means Monken Hadley Common Trust which was formed on 30 September 2019 and the
first trustees of which were Andrew Peter Walker, Barbara Taylor and Arthur
John Turton Gillman;           “the Churchwardens” means the Churchwardens of
the Parish Church of Monken Hadley, in the County of Middlesex, who were
incorporated by section 115 of the 1777 Act;           “the Common” means so
much of the land that was vested in the Churchwardens under section 5 of the
1777 Act together with other land adjoining it and which in both cases was in
their ownership on the date on which the petition for the Bill for this Act
was deposited in Parliament;           “land” includes any gates and fences or
similar structures (without prejudice to Schedule 1 to the Interpretation Act
1978).

### The primary objects of the Trust

3

3.1

On its incorporation as a charitable incorporated organisation, the objects of
the Trust must include—

3.1.a

the preservation of the Common as a place for peaceful open air public
recreation and enjoyment; and

3.1.b

the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural
environment of the Common for the benefit of the public, having regard to the
requirements of good forestry and the desirability of conserving flora and
fauna.

3.2

In this Act, those objects are referred to as the “primary objects”.

3.3

The objects of the Trust and any transferee under section 12 must always
include the primary objects.

3.4

The Trust and any transferee may have other objects but they must be
charitable objects.

3.5

Any alteration to the objects of the Trust or of a transferee requires the
written consent of the Charity Commission.

### Transfer of ownership of Common

4

4.1

On the appointed day—

4.1.a

the Common and all other property which immediately before that date was the
property of the Churchwardens and was used or held in connection with the
Common; and

4.1.b

all rights and liabilities of the Churchwardens subsisting immediately before
that date which were acquired or incurred in connection with the Common,

are transferred to and vest in the Trust free of any trusts established under
the 1777 Act.

4.2

Whilst the Common is in its ownership—

4.2.a

the Trust must remain a charity;

4.2.b

the objects of the Trust must include the primary objects.

4.3

From the appointed day the Churchwardens shall not be liable for any act,
event, failure to act or omission so far as the act, event, failure to act or
omission relates to the Common and occured before the appointed day.

4.4

Where the transfer and vesting of the Common or any part of the Common
effected by subsection (1) is a registrable disposition under the Land
Registration Act 2002, the Trust must apply to the Chief Land Registrar for
registration in the register of title of a restriction to reflect section
12(2).

### Ending of statutory incorporation of Churchwardens

5

On the appointed day, the Churchwardens shall cease to be incorporated under
the 1777 Act and section 115 of the 1777 Act ceases to apply in relation to
the Churchwardens.

### Disapplication of provisions of 1777 Act

6

On the appointed day, the following provisions cease to have effect in
relation to the Common—

6.a

section 6 (proviso relating to ownership of trees);

6.b

in section 12 (steward, etc. may remove Pinfolds, with consent of
Churchwardens) the words “by and with the Consent of the Churchwardens of the
Parish wherein such Pound or Pinfold is situate”;

6.c

section 60 (powers for the parishes to make Rules and Orders concerning their
respective allotments);

6.d

section 70 (freeholders, etc. to have the same Rights to recover as the Crown
would have);

6.e

section 71 (no new gates to be set up, or ways made, without leave of the
Vestry);

6.f

section 121 (penalty for destroying fences);

6.g

section 122 (method of recovering penalties);

6.h

section 123 (how justices to proceed for conviction of offender);

6.i

section 127 (copies of survey);

6.j

section 128 (persons aggrieved may appeal to quarter sessions);

6.k

section 129 (limitation of actions);

6.l

section 130 (general issue may be pleaded to actions).

### Management of Common

7

7.1

On and after the appointed day the Trust shall be responsible for the
management of the Common.

7.2

Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Trust may—

7.2.a

do any works necessary for preserving, restoring, planting and maintaining the
turf, trees, shrubs, plants and grass for landscaping and temporarily fence
off such parts of the Common as it thinks necessary;

7.2.b

execute works of draining, raising or levelling for the preservation and
maintenance of the Common and fence off dangerous places;

7.2.c

construct, place or erect and maintain, or permit the construction, placing or
erection and maintenance of buildings, seats, fences, notice boards, gates and
other structures.

7.3

The prohibition in section 38(1) of the Commons Act 2006 applies in relation
to the construction, placing or erection of any buildings, fences or other
structures under subsection (2).

7.4

Subject to subsection (5), the only purposes for which fences may be erected
under subsection (2) are—

7.4.a

the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural
environment of the Common and its suitability for recreation;

7.4.b

the preservation of trees on the Common;

7.4.c

the prevention of the risk of fire on the Common;

7.4.d

the prevention of accidents or injury or other damage to health at any place,
which is in the opinion of the Trust a source of danger, on the Common;

7.4.e

any other purpose necessary, in the reasonable opinion of the Trust, for the
furtherance of the primary objects.

7.5

Nothing in subsection (4) prejudices or affects the exercise of powers under
any enactment whereby access to the Common may be regulated or prohibited.

### Easements and other rights

8

8.1

On and after the appointed day the Trust may, over any part of the Common,
grant to an owner or occupier of any land adjoining the Common easements,
licences or other rights for access (with or without vehicles), maintenance or
services to or in connection with the land as the Trust thinks fit.

8.2

Easements, licences or other rights may be granted on such terms (including
the payment of charges, whether periodic or otherwise) and subject to such
conditions as the Trust thinks fit.

8.3

Nothing in this Act affects any rights of owners and occupiers of land
adjoining the Common in respect of gates, ways or passages lawfully erected or
used before the appointed day.

8.4

Nothing in this section affects the application of sections 117 to 123 of the
Charities Act 2011 (restrictions on dispositions of land) in relation to the
Trust.

### Leases

9

9.1

On and after the appointed day the Trust may grant or renew a lease of any
part of the Common that is not registered common land to an owner or occupier
of any land adjoining the Common.

9.2

A lease granted under subsection (1) may be for any period not exceeding 7
years and the period of any renewal may not exceed 7 years.

9.3

In exercising the power in subsection (1), the Trust must ensure that the land
which is the subject of the lease will not be altered significantly in its
appearance or in its use.

9.4

Before granting a lease under subsection (1), the Trust must consult such
persons or bodies as it thinks appropriate (which must include any committee
or group established by statute for the purpose of consultation about the
management of the Common).

9.5

Part II of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 (which provides security of tenure
for commercial tenancies) and section 5 of the Housing Act 1988 (which
provides security of tenure for assured tenancies) do not apply to a lease
granted under subsection (1).

9.6

The exercise of the power under subsection (1) is not a disposition falling
within section 117(3) of the Charities Act 2011 and nothing in this section
affects the application of sections 117 to 123 of the Charities Act 2011 in
relation to the Trust.

9.7

In subsection (1) “registered common land” means—

9.7.a

land which is registered as common land under the Commons Registration Act
1965 and whose registration under that Act has become final; and

9.7.b

land which is registered as common land under Part 1 of the Commons Act 2006.

### Regulations

10

10.1

On and after the appointed day, the Trust may make regulations to secure the
good management of the Common including for the following purposes—

10.1.a

the conservation of the natural state of the Common;

10.1.b

the preservation of order and the prevention of nuisances on the Common;

10.1.c

the exercise of rights of common; and

10.1.d

to secure public safety.

10.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may include provision—

10.2.a

to regulate or prohibit the lighting and tending of fires;

10.2.b

to regulate or prohibit the use of the Common for any particular purpose which
is incompatible with the primary objects;

10.2.c

about the control of dogs and other animals;

10.2.d

about the use of vehicles;

10.2.e

for the making of reasonable charges for the use of the Common for specified
purposes.

10.3

In subsection (2)(e), “the use of the Common for specified purposes” includes—

10.3.a

the use of any part of the Common in the course of a business;

10.3.b

the use of any facilities provided by the Trust (including leisure and parking
facilities);

10.3.c

the use of any part of the Common for any organised activity.

10.4

Subject to subsection (3), charges may not be made for the exercise by members
of the public of rights of access for air and exercise as mentioned in section
193(1) of the Law of Property Act 1925.

10.5

Regulations under subsection (1) may—

10.5.a

make provision that a person contravening the regulations is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 2 on the standard scale;

10.5.b

be made so as to relate to the whole or any part of the Common;

10.5.c

make different provision for different cases and in relation to different
parts of the Common;

10.5.d

amend or revoke other regulations made under that subsection;

10.5.e

revoke rules and orders made under section 60 of the 1777 Act.

### Procedure for making regulations

11

11.1

Section 236 (except subsection (2)) and section 238 of the Local Government
Act 1972 (which respectively relate to the procedure for making byelaws by
local authorities and provide for the proof of byelaws in legal proceedings)
shall apply to regulations made by the Trust under section 10 as they apply to
byelaws made by a district council, as if—

11.1.a

references to byelaws were references to regulations under section 10;

11.1.b

references to a district council were references to the Trust;

11.1.c

references to the area to which the byelaws are to apply were references to
the Common;

11.1.d

references to the making of byelaws under the common seal of a district
council were references to the making of regulations under the hand of two
persons appointed for that purpose by the Trust;

11.1.e

references to the offices of a district council were references to the offices
of the Trust or (if there are no such offices) the address of a person
nominated by the Trust;

11.1.f

references to the proper officer of a district council were references to a
person appointed for that purpose by the Trust;

11.1.g

there was an additional requirement to publish a copy of the regulations on
the Trust's website in every case where there is a requirement to deposit one
at the offices of a district council.

11.2

The confirming authority for the purposes of section 236 is the Secretary of
State.

### Further transfers of the Common

12

12.1

Subject to subsections (2), (4) and (6), the Trust may transfer its interest
in the Common and any property, rights and liabilities relating to the Common
to another person (“a transferee”).

12.2

A transferee must be a charity.

12.3

Where a transfer has been made, references in this Act (including in
subsection (1)) to the Trust are to be construed as references to the
transferee.

12.4

A transfer under subsection (1) is not a disposition falling within section
117(3)(a) of the Charities Act 2011 (restrictions on dispositions of land:
general).

12.5

Where a transfer of an interest in the Common or any part of the Common under
this section includes a registrable disposition of land under the Land
Registration Act 2002, the transferee must apply to the Chief Land Registrar
for registration in the register of title of a restriction to reflect
subsection (2).

12.6

Nothing in this section affects the operation of regulations made under
section 245 of the Charities Act 2011 (regulations about winding up,
insolvency and dissolution of charitable incorporated organisations).

### Appointed day

13

13.1

The appointed day is fixed by a decision of the Churchwardens.

13.2

The appointed day must not be before the Trust is registered by the Charity
Commission as a charity.

13.3

Before the appointed day, the Churchwardens must publish notice of the day
appointed in the London Gazette, stating that it is the appointed day for the
purposes of the relevant provision of this Act.

13.4

The publication of a notice under subsection (3) is conclusive evidence of the
date of the appointed day in question, and a photocopy or other reproduction,
certified by one of the Churchwardens or the clerk to the Churchwardens, of a
page or part of a page of the London Gazette containing the notice is
conclusive evidence of publication.

### Transitional provision

14

14.1

Any rules and orders made under section 60 of the 1777 Act continue to have
effect until revoked by regulations made under section 10.

14.2

Those rules and orders include the rules and orders made by the Commoners of
Monken Hadley Common on 8 April 1981.

