Title: National Insurance Contributions Act 2022
Date: 2024-07-02
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/9

## National Insurance Contributions Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Secondary Class 1 contributions

####  

##### Zero-rate contributions for employees at  

1

1.1

This section applies where—

1.1.a

a secondary Class 1 contribution is payable as mentioned in section 6(1)(b) of
the 1992 Act in respect of earnings paid in a tax week in respect of an
employed earner’s employment by an employer other than a public authority,

1.1.b

the   applicable conditions   are met in relation to the contribution (see
section 2), and

1.1.c

the employer (or, if different, the secondary contributor) elects that this
section is to apply in relation to the contribution for the purposes of
section 9(1) of the 1992 Act instead of section 9(1A) of that Act or section 6
of this Act.

1.2

For the purposes of section 9(1) of the 1992 Act—

1.2.a

the relevant percentage in respect of any earnings paid in the tax week up to
or at the upper secondary threshold is 0%, and

1.2.b

the relevant percentage in respect of any earnings paid in the tax week above
that threshold is the secondary percentage.

1.3

The upper secondary threshold (or the prescribed equivalent in relation to
earners paid otherwise than weekly) is the amount specified in, or in
regulations under, section 8.

1.4

For the purposes of the 1992 Act a person is still to be regarded as being
liable to pay a secondary Class 1 contribution even if the amount of the
contribution is £0 as a result of this section.

1.5

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about cases in which this
section is to be treated as applying in relation to contributions payable in
respect of a tax week in a given tax year only when—

1.5.a

that tax year has ended, and

1.5.b

all contributions payable in respect of a tax week in that tax year have been
paid.

1.6

Regulations under subsection  (5)  may modify the   applicable conditions   in
section 2 (1)(c)  and  (d)  for the purposes of cases to which the regulations
apply.

#####  

2

2.1

The applicable conditions   are that—

2.1.a

the employed earner’s employment is a new employment that—

2.1.a.i

begins on or after 6 April 2022, but

2.1.a.ii

does not begin later than   the applicable sunset date ,

2.1.b

the earnings—

2.1.b.i

are paid during the period of three years beginning with the first day of the
employment, but

2.1.b.ii

are not paid after the relevant end date (see subsection  (6) ),

2.1.c

the contribution is paid in respect of earnings paid in a tax week all of
which is in a qualifying period of the employment, and

2.1.d

at the time the qualifying period begins, the employer reasonably expects that
60% or more of the earner’s employed time during that period will be spent in
a single   special tax site   in which the employer has business premises.

2.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(a) , an employment is new if the earner
was not employed by the employer or by a person connected with the employer
(within the meaning of section 993 of the Income Tax Act 2007) at any time
within the period of two years ending with the day on which the employment
begins.

2.2A

For the purposes of this section “ the applicable sunset date ”, in relation
to a special tax site, means —

2.2A.a

5 April 2026, or

2.2A.b

such later date as may be specified under  section 332 (4) (b)  of the Finance
(No.2) Act 2023 as the applicable sunset date in relation to the site
concerned for the purposes of the provisions mentioned in subsection  (4)  of
that section.

2.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(c)  a qualifying period of the employment
is a period—

2.3.a

that begins with—

2.3.a.i

the start of the employment, or

2.3.a.ii

a substantial change in the earner’s working arrangements, and

2.3.b

that ends (subject to subsection  (4)(d) ) with—

2.3.b.i

the end of the employment,

2.3.b.ii

the relevant end date, or

2.3.b.iii

a substantial change in the earner’s working arrangements.

2.4

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(d) —

2.4.a

an earner’s employed time is time when the earner is expected to provide
services to the employer under the terms of a contract of service (“working
time”), together with time when the earner would have provided such services
but for being on leave (of any sort);

2.4.b

it is to be assumed that the proportion of the time when an earner is on leave
that is spent at any given   special tax site   is the same as the proportion
of the earner’s working time that would be spent at that site if the earner
were not on leave;

2.4.c

it does not matter whether the earner is expected to provide services under a
single contract of service or under successive contracts of service, provided
that the employment does not cease;

2.4.d

if an expectation for the purposes of subsection  (1)(d)  ceases to be
reasonable in any given tax week, the condition in that subsection ceases to
be met, and the qualifying period is taken to end, at the end of the previous
tax week.

2.5

If the secondary contributor in relation to the earner is not the earner’s
employer—

2.5.a

subsection  (1)(d)  has effect as if both references to “the employer” were
references to “the secondary contributor”, and

2.5.b

subsection  (2)  has effect as if, after both references to “the employer”,
there were inserted  “or the secondary contributor” .

2.6

The relevant end date is the last day of the period of three years beginning
with the day after the applicable sunset date.

#####  

3

3.1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.2

The Treasury may by regulations provide for circumstances in which   an
applicable   condition is to be treated as being met.

3.3

The Treasury may by regulations make such other changes in relation to the
applicable   conditions as they consider appropriate (including by adding,
removing or altering conditions).

3.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  may, among other things—

3.4.a

provide for circumstances in which a condition is to be treated as not being
met;

3.4.b

add conditions relating to accounts or other records;

3.4.c

add conditions requiring a person to take steps specified in the regulations.

3.5

Regulations under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  may make provision by reference to
sectors of the economy or to descriptions of employer, earner or employment.

3.6

Regulations under subsection  (2)  or  (3)  may amend, repeal or otherwise
modify this Part.

##### Anti-avoidance

4

4.1

Section 1 does not apply if it would otherwise apply only as a result of
avoidance arrangements.

4.2

In this section—

“arrangements” include any scheme, transaction or series of transactions,
agreement or understanding, whether or not legally enforceable; “ avoidance
arrangements ” means any arrangements which it is reasonable in all the
circumstances— to conclude are, or include steps that are, contrived, abnormal
or lacking a genuine commercial purpose, or to regard as circumventing the
intended limits of the application of section 1 or otherwise exploiting
shortcomings in that section or in provision made in or under sections 2 and
3.

##### Zero-rate contributions for employees at  

5

The Treasury may by regulations make provision corresponding or similar to
provision made in, under or for the purposes of sections 1 to 4 in relation to
Northern Ireland.

#### Veterans

##### Zero-rate contributions for armed forces veterans

6

6.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

6.1.a

a secondary Class 1 contribution is payable as mentioned in section 6(1)(b) of
either of the 1992 Acts in respect of earnings paid in a tax week in respect
of an employment,

6.1.b

the tax week is in a tax year mentioned in subsection  (4) ,

6.1.c

the veteran conditions are met in relation to the contribution (see section
7), and

6.1.d

the employer (or, if different, the secondary contributor) elects that
subsection  (2)  is to apply in relation to the contribution for the purposes
of section 9(1) of whichever of the 1992 Acts would otherwise apply instead of
section 9(1A) of that Act or section 1 of this Act.

6.2

For the purposes of section 9(1) of whichever of the 1992 Acts would otherwise
apply—

6.2.a

the relevant percentage in respect of any earnings paid in the tax week up to
or at the upper secondary threshold is 0%, and

6.2.b

the relevant percentage in respect of any earnings paid in the tax week above
that threshold is the secondary percentage.

6.3

The upper secondary threshold (or the prescribed equivalent in relation to
earners paid otherwise than weekly) is the amount specified in, or in
regulations under, section 8.

6.4

The tax years are—

6.4.a

2022-23;

6.4.b

2023-24.

6.4.c

2024-25.

6.5

Any amount paid by way of secondary Class 1 contribution in relation to a tax
week in the tax year 2021-22 that would not have been payable if that tax year
had been mentioned in subsection  (4)  and an election had been made for the
purposes of subsection  (1)(d)  in relation to the contribution is to be
treated, from 6 April 2022, as not having been payable.

6.6

The Treasury may by regulations made before the end of the last tax year for
the time being mentioned in subsection  (4)  (“the last tax year”) amend that
subsection so as to add one or more consecutive tax years following
immediately after the last tax year.

6.7

For the purposes of the 1992 Acts a person is still to be regarded as being
liable to pay a secondary Class 1 contribution even if the amount of the
contribution is £0 as a result of this section.

6.8

The Treasury may by regulations make provision about cases in which subsection
(2)  is to be treated as applying in relation to contributions payable in
respect of a tax week in a given tax year only when—

6.8.a

that tax year has ended, and

6.8.b

all contributions payable in respect of a tax week in that tax year have been
paid.

##### Veteran conditions

7

7.1

The veteran conditions are that—

7.1.a

the earner has served for at least one day as a member of any of the regular
forces,

7.1.b

the employment is employment in a civilian capacity, and

7.1.c

the earnings are paid during the period of one year beginning with the
earner’s first day of employment in a civilian capacity since the earner last
ceased to be a member of any of the regular forces.

7.2

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(c) , it is immaterial if the earner’s
first day of employment in a civilian capacity was before the start of the tax
year 2022-23 (or, in a case where section 6 (5)  applies, the tax year
2021-22).

#### Upper secondary threshold

##### Upper secondary threshold for earnings

8

8.1

For the purposes of section 1, for the tax   years beginning with 6 April 2022
, 6 April 2023 and 6 April 2024 —

8.1.a

the upper secondary threshold is £481, and

8.1.b

the prescribed equivalent for earners paid otherwise than weekly is—

8.1.b.i

where the earnings period is a month, £2,083;

8.1.b.ii

where the earnings period is a year, £25,000;

8.1.b.iii

where the earnings period is a multiple of a week, £25,000 divided by 52 and
multiplied by the multiple;

8.1.b.iv

where the earnings period is a multiple of a month, £25,000 divided by 12 and
multiplied by the multiple;

8.1.b.v

in any other case, £25,000 divided by 365 and multiplied by the number of days
in the earnings period.

8.2

For the purposes of section 6, for the tax years beginning with 6 April 2021
, 6 April 2022  , 6 April 2023 and 6 April 2024 —

8.2.a

the upper secondary threshold is £967, and

8.2.b

the prescribed equivalent for earners paid otherwise than weekly is—

8.2.b.i

where the earnings period is a month, £4,189;

8.2.b.ii

where the earnings period is a year, £50,270;

8.2.b.iii

where the earnings period is a multiple of a week, £50,270 divided by 52 and
multiplied by the multiple;

8.2.b.iv

where the earnings period is a multiple of a month, £50,270 divided by 12 and
multiplied by the multiple;

8.2.b.v

in any other case, £50,270 divided by 365 and multiplied by the number of days
in the earnings period.

8.3

Amounts determined in accordance with—

8.3.a

subsection  (1)(b)(iii)  or  (iv) , or subsection  (2)(b)(iii)  or  (iv) , if
not whole pounds, are to be rounded up to the next whole pound;

8.3.b

subsection  (1)(b)(v)  or  (2)(b)(v)  are to be calculated to the nearest
penny, and any amount of a halfpenny or less is to be disregarded.

8.4

The Treasury may by regulations provide that there is to be an upper secondary
threshold for secondary Class 1 contributions for the purposes of any tax year
after the tax year 2022-23 to which section 1 or 6 relates.

8.5

The threshold for any tax year is to be the amount specified for that tax year
by the regulations.

8.6

The regulations may prescribe an equivalent of an upper secondary threshold in
relation to earners paid otherwise than weekly (and references in any Act to
the “prescribed equivalent”, in the context of an upper secondary threshold
for the purposes of section 1 or 6, are references to the equivalent
prescribed in reliance on this subsection in relation to such earners).

8.7

The power to prescribe an equivalent includes power to prescribe an amount
which exceeds, by not more than £1.00, the amount which is the arithmetical
equivalent of that threshold.

8.8

The regulations may amend this section.

#### Consequential amendment

##### Consequential amendment

9

In the Finance Act 2016, in Part 6 (apprenticeship levy), in section 100(6)
(references to liability to pay secondary Class 1 contributions), for the
words in brackets substitute  “(including a case where the amount of a
liability to pay a secondary Class 1 contribution is £0)” .

### Class 4 contributions

#### Treatment of self-isolation support scheme payments

10

10.1

A payment under a self-isolation support scheme is not to be taken into
account for the purposes of computing the amount of profits in respect of
which Class 4 contributions are payable under section 15 of either of the 1992
Acts.

10.2

For the purposes of this section, the following (and only the following) are
self-isolation support schemes—

10.2.a

in relation to England, the scheme known as the Test and Trace Support Payment
Scheme;

10.2.b

in relation to Wales, the scheme known as the Self-Isolation Support Scheme;

10.2.c

in relation to Scotland, the scheme known as Self-Isolation Support Grant;

10.2.d

in relation to any part of the United Kingdom, a scheme corresponding or
similar to the schemes mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  that is
designated for the purposes of this paragraph in regulations made by the
Treasury.

10.3

This section has effect in relation to payments made in the tax year 2020-21
and subsequent tax years.

### Disclosure of avoidance

#### Disclosure of contributions avoidance arrangements

11

In section 132A(1) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 (disclosure
of contributions avoidance arrangements)—

11.a

after “in relation to” insert

—

11.a.a



, and

11.b

at the end insert

, or

11.b.b

any arrangements or proposal which the Commissioners for Her Majesty’s Revenue
and Customs reasonably suspect to be notifiable contribution arrangements or a
notifiable contribution proposal (as the case may be).

### General

#### Regulations

12

12.1

Regulations under this Act are to be made by statutory instrument.

12.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations under any of the following
provisions (whether alone or with other provision) may not be made unless a
draft of the regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution
of, each House of Parliament—

12.2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12.2.b

section 3 (3) ;

12.2.c

section 5;

12.2.d

section 6(6);

12.2.e

section 8.

12.3

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under this Act is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

12.4

Subsections (3) to (5) of section 175 of the 1992 Act (regulations etc) apply
to regulations under this Act as they apply generally to regulations under
that Act.

#### Interpretation etc

13

13.1

Expressions which are used in the 1992 Acts have the same meaning in this Act
as in those Acts (unless the contrary intention appears).

13.2

In this Act—

“the 1992 Act” is the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992;
“the 1992 Acts” are the 1992 Act and the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992; “ business premises ”, in relation to an
employer, means premises at or on which the employer’s business is carried on;
“ employment in a civilian capacity ” means employment other than service as a
member of Her Majesty’s forces (within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act
2006); ... “ premises ” means a building or structure or part of a building or
structure; “ public authority ” includes any person whose activities involve
the performance of functions (whether or not in the United Kingdom) which are
of a public nature; “ the regular forces ” has the meaning given by section
374 of the Armed Forces Act 2006;   “ special tax site ” has the meaning given
by section 113 of the Finance Act 2021 (designation of special tax sites).

#### Short title

14

This Act may be cited as the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022.

