Title: Nationality and Borders Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-22
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/36

## Nationality and Borders Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Nationality

#### British overseas territories citizenship

##### Historical inability of mothers to transmit citizenship

1

1.1

Part 2 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (British overseas territories
citizenship) is amended as follows.

1.2

After section 17, insert—

########### Registration: remedying inability of mothers to transmit citizenship

1.2.17A

1.2.17A.1

On an application for registration under this section, a person (“ P ”) is
entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories citizen if the
following three conditions are met.

1.2.17A.2

The first condition is that—

1.2.17A.2.a

P would have become a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies under any of
the following provisions of the British Nationality Act 1948—

1.2.17A.2.a.i

section 5 (person born on or after 1 January 1949: citizenship by descent);

1.2.17A.2.a.ii

section 12(2) (person born before 1 January 1949: citizenship by descent);

1.2.17A.2.a.iii

section 12(3) (person born before 1 January 1949 in British protectorate etc);

1.2.17A.2.a.iv

section 12(4) (person born before January 1949 not becoming citizen of other
country);

1.2.17A.2.a.v

section 12(5) (woman married before 1 January 1949 to a man who became or
would have become a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies);

1.2.17A.2.a.vi

paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 (person born on or after 1 January 1949 to a British
subject without citizenship);

had P’s parents been treated equally, by that Act or by any relevant previous
provision, for the purposes of determining P’s nationality status; or

1.2.17A.2.b

P would have been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies immediately
before commencement had P’s parents been treated equally, for the purposes of
determining P’s nationality status, by any independence legislation that
caused P to lose that citizenship.

1.2.17A.3

In subsection  (2) —

      “ relevant previous provision ” means a provision of the law that was in
force at some time before 1 January 1949 which provided for a nationality
status to be transmitted from a parent to a child without the need for an
application to be made for the child to be registered as a person with that
nationality status;           “ independence legislation ” means an Act of
Parliament or any subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978) forming part of the law in the United Kingdom
(whenever passed or made, and whether or not still in force)—
providing for a country or territory to become independent from the United
Kingdom, or           dealing with nationality, or any other ancillary
matters, in connection with a country or territory becoming independent from
the United Kingdom.

1.2.17A.4

In determining for the purposes of subsection  (2)  whether a person would
have become a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies under section 5 of
the British Nationality Act 1948, the requirement that a person’s birth was
registered at a United Kingdom consulate, as set out in subsection (1)(b) of
that section, is to be ignored.

1.2.17A.5

The second condition is that, if P had become or been a citizen of the United
Kingdom and Colonies as mentioned in subsection  (2) , P would at commencement
have become a British Dependent Territories citizen under section 23(1)(b) or
(c).

1.2.17A.6

The third condition is that, if P had become a British Dependent Territories
citizen as mentioned in subsection  (5) , P would have become a British
overseas territories citizen on the commencement of section 2 of the British
Overseas Territories Act 2002.

1.3

In section 25 (meaning of British overseas territories citizen “by descent”),
in subsection (1), after paragraph (c) insert—

1.3.ca

the person is a British overseas territories citizen by virtue of registration
under section 17A; or

.

##### Historical inability of unmarried fathers to transmit citizenship

2

2.1

Part 2 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (British overseas territories
citizenship) is amended as follows.

2.2

After section 17A (as inserted by section 1), insert—

########### Registration: unmarried fathers; the general conditions

2.2.17B

For the purposes of sections 17C to 17F, a person (“ P ”) meets the general
conditions if—

2.2.17B.a

at the time of P’s birth, P’s mother—

2.2.17B.a.i

was not married, or

2.2.17B.a.ii

was married to a person other than P’s natural father;

2.2.17B.b

no person is treated as the father of P under—

2.2.17B.b.i

section 28 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 1990, or

2.2.17B.b.ii

section 35 or 36 of the Human Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008;

2.2.17B.c

no person is treated as a parent of P under section 42 or 43 of the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008; and

2.2.17B.d

P has never been a British overseas territories citizen or a British Dependent
Territories citizen.

########### Person unable to be registered under other provisions of this Act

2.2.17C

2.2.17C.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be registered as a British overseas
territories citizen on an application made under this section if—

2.2.17C.1.a

P meets the general conditions; and

2.2.17C.1.b

P would be entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories citizen
under—

2.2.17C.1.b.i

section 15(3),

2.2.17C.1.b.ii

section 17(2),

2.2.17C.1.b.iii

section 17(5),

2.2.17C.1.b.iv

paragraph 4 of Schedule 2, or

2.2.17C.1.b.v

paragraph 5 of Schedule 2,

had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth.

2.2.17C.2

In the following provisions of this section, “ relevant registration provision
” means the provision under which P would be entitled to be registered as a
British overseas territories citizen (as mentioned in subsection (1)(b)).

2.2.17C.3

If the relevant registration provision is section 17(2), a person who is
registered as a British overseas territories citizen under this section is a
British overseas territories citizen by descent.

2.2.17C.4

If the relevant registration provision is section 17(5), the Secretary of
State may, in the special circumstances of the particular case, waive the need
for any or all of the parental consents to be given.

2.2.17C.5

For that purpose, the “parental consents” are—

2.2.17C.5.a

the consent of P’s natural father, and

2.2.17C.5.b

the consent of P’s mother,

insofar as they would be required by section 17(5)(c) (as read with section
17(6)(b)), had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of
P’s birth.

########### Person unable to become citizen automatically after commencement

2.2.17D

2.2.17D.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be registered as a British overseas
territories citizen on an application made under this section if—

2.2.17D.1.a

P meets the general conditions;

2.2.17D.1.b

at any time in the period after commencement, P would have automatically
become a British Dependent Territories citizen or a British overseas
territories citizen at birth by the operation of—

2.2.17D.1.b.i

section 15(1),

2.2.17D.1.b.ii

section 16, or

2.2.17D.1.b.iii

paragraph 1 of Schedule 2,

had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth;
and

2.2.17D.1.c

in a case where P would have become a British Dependent Territories citizen as
mentioned in paragraph (b), P would then have automatically become a British
overseas territories citizen by the operation of section 2 of the British
Overseas Territories Act 2002.

2.2.17D.2

A person who is registered as a British overseas territories citizen under
this section is a British overseas territories citizen by descent if the
citizenship which the person would have acquired at birth (as mentioned in
subsection (1)(b)) would (by virtue of section 25) have been citizenship by
descent.

2.2.17D.3

If P is under the age of 18, no application may be made unless the consent of
P’s natural father and mother to the registration has been signified in the
prescribed manner.

2.2.17D.4

But if P’s natural father or mother has died on or before the date of the
application, the reference in subsection (3) to P’s natural father and mother
is to be read as a reference to either of them.

2.2.17D.5

The Secretary of State may, in the special circumstances of a particular case,
waive the need for any or all of the consents required by subsection (3) (as
read with subsection (4)) to be given.

2.2.17D.6

The reference in this section to the period after commencement does not
include the time of commencement (and, accordingly, this section does not
apply to any case in which a person was unable to become a British Dependent
Territories citizen at commencement).

########### Citizen of UK and Colonies unable to become citizen at commencement

2.2.17E

2.2.17E.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be registered as a British overseas
territories citizen on an application made under this section if—

2.2.17E.1.a

P meets the general conditions;

2.2.17E.1.b

P—

2.2.17E.1.b.i

was a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies immediately before
commencement, or

2.2.17E.1.b.ii

would have become such a citizen as mentioned in section 17A(2)(a), or

2.2.17E.1.b.iii

would have been such a citizen immediately before commencement as mentioned in
section 17A(2)(b);

2.2.17E.1.c

P would then have automatically become a British Dependent Territories citizen
at commencement by the operation of section 23, had P’s mother been married to
P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth; and

2.2.17E.1.d

P would then have automatically become a British overseas territories citizen
by the operation of section 2 of the British Overseas Territories Act 2002.

2.2.17E.2

A person who is registered as a British overseas territories citizen under
this section is a British overseas territories citizen by descent if the
citizenship which the person would have acquired at commencement (as mentioned
in subsection (1)(c)) would (by virtue of section 25) have been citizenship by
descent.

########### Other person unable to become citizen at commencement

2.2.17F

2.2.17F.1

A person (“ P ”) is entitled to be registered as a British overseas
territories citizen on an application made under this section if—

2.2.17F.1.a

P meets the general conditions;

2.2.17F.1.b

P is either—

2.2.17F.1.b.i

an eligible former British national, or

2.2.17F.1.b.ii

an eligible non-British national; and

2.2.17F.1.c

had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth, P—

2.2.17F.1.c.i

would have been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies immediately
before commencement,

2.2.17F.1.c.ii

would have automatically become a British Dependent Territories citizen at
commencement by the operation of section 23, and

2.2.17F.1.c.iii

would have automatically become a British overseas territories citizen by the
operation of section 2 of the British Overseas Territories Act 2002.

2.2.17F.2

In determining for the purposes of subsection (1)(c)(i) whether a person would
have been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies, the requirement that a
person’s birth was registered at a United Kingdom consulate, as set out in
section 5(1)(b) of the British Nationality Act 1948, is to be ignored.

2.2.17F.3

P is an “eligible former British national” if P was not a citizen of the
United Kingdom and Colonies immediately before commencement and either—

2.2.17F.3.a

P ceased to be a British subject or a citizen of the United Kingdom and
Colonies by virtue of the commencement of any independence legislation, but
would not have done so had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at
the time of P’s birth, or

2.2.17F.3.b

P was a British subject who did not automatically become a citizen of the
United Kingdom and Colonies at commencement of the British Nationality Act
1948 by the operation of any provision of it, but would have done so had P’s
mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth.

2.2.17F.4

P is an “eligible non-British national” if—

2.2.17F.4.a

P was never a British subject or citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies;
and

2.2.17F.4.b

had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth, P
would have automatically become a British subject or citizen of the United
Kingdom and Colonies—

2.2.17F.4.b.i

at birth, or

2.2.17F.4.b.ii

by virtue of paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to the British Nationality Act 1948
(child of male British subject to become citizen of the United Kingdom and
Colonies if father becomes such a citizen).

2.2.17F.5

A person who is registered as a British overseas territories citizen under
this section is a British overseas territories citizen by descent if the
citizenship which the person would have acquired at commencement (as mentioned
in subsection (1)(c)(ii)) would (by virtue of section 25) have been
citizenship by descent.

2.2.17F.6

In determining for the purposes of subsection (1)(c)(i) whether P would have
been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies immediately before
commencement, it must be assumed that P would not have—

2.2.17F.6.a

renounced or been deprived of any notional British nationality, or

2.2.17F.6.b

lost any notional British nationality by virtue of P acquiring the nationality
of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom.

2.2.17F.7

A “notional British nationality” is—

2.2.17F.7.a

in a case where P is an eligible former British national, any status as a
British subject or a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies which P would
have held at any time after P’s nationality loss (had that loss not occurred
and had P’s mother been married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s
birth);

2.2.17F.7.b

in a case where P is an eligible non-British national—

2.2.17F.7.b.i

P’s status as a British subject or citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies
as mentioned in subsection (4)(b), and

2.2.17F.7.b.ii

any other status as a British subject or citizen of the United Kingdom and
Colonies which P would have held at any time afterwards (had P’s mother been
married to P’s natural father at the time of P’s birth).

2.2.17F.8

In this section—

      “British subject” has any meaning which it had for the purposes of the
British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914;           “ independence
legislation ” means an Act of Parliament or any subordinate legislation
(within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978) forming part of the law in
the United Kingdom (whenever passed or made, and whether or not still in
force)—         providing for a country or territory to become independent
from the United Kingdom, or           dealing with nationality, or any other
ancillary matters, in connection with a country or territory becoming
independent from the United Kingdom;                 “ P’s nationality loss ”
means P’s—         ceasing to be a British subject or citizen of the United
Kingdom and Colonies (as mentioned in subsection (3)(a)), or           not
becoming a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies (as mentioned in
subsection (3)(b)).

########### Sections 17B to 17F: supplementary provision

2.2.17G

2.2.17G.1

In sections 17B to 17F and this section, a person’s “natural father” is a
person who satisfies the requirements as to proof of paternity that are
prescribed in regulations under section 50(9B).

2.2.17G.2

The power under section 50(9B) to make different provision for different
circumstances includes power to make provision for the purposes of any
provision of sections 17B to 17F which is different from other provision made
under section 50(9B).

2.2.17G.3

The following provisions apply for the purposes of sections 17B to 17F.

2.2.17G.4

A reference to a person automatically becoming a citizen of a certain type is
a reference to the person becoming a citizen of that type without the need
for—

2.2.17G.4.a

the person to be registered as such a citizen by the Secretary of State or any
other minister of the Crown;

2.2.17G.4.b

the birth of the person to be registered by a diplomatic or consular
representative of the United Kingdom; or

2.2.17G.4.c

the person to be naturalised as such a citizen.

2.2.17G.5

If the mother of a person could not actually have been married to the person’s
natural father at the time of the person’s birth (for whatever reason), that
fact does not prevent an assumption being made that the couple were married at
the time of the birth.

2.3

In section 25 (meaning of British overseas territories citizen “by descent”),
in subsection (1), after paragraph (ca) (as inserted by section 1), insert—

2.3.cb

the person is a British overseas territories citizen by descent by virtue of
section 17C(3), 17D(2), 17E(2) or 17F(5); or

.

2.4

In Part 5 of that Act (miscellaneous and supplementary), in section 41A
(registration: requirement to be of good character), after subsection (2)
insert—

2.4.2A

An application for registration of an adult or young person as a British
overseas territories citizen under section 17C, so far as the relevant
registration provision (as defined in section 17C(2)) is section 15(3), 17(2)
or 17(5), must not be granted unless the Secretary of State is satisfied that
the adult or young person is of good character.

##### Provision for Chagos Islanders to acquire British Nationality

3

In Part 2 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (British overseas territories
citizenship), after section 17G (as inserted by section 2), insert—

######### Acquisition by registration: descendants of those born in British Indian Ocean Territory

3.17H

3.17H.1

A person is entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories
citizen on an application made under this section if—

3.17H.1.a

they are a direct descendant of a person (“ P ”) who was a citizen of the
United Kingdom and Colonies by virtue of P’s birth in the British Indian Ocean
Territory or, prior to 8 November 1965, in those islands designated as the
British Indian Ocean Territory on that date, and

3.17H.1.b

they have never been a British overseas territories citizen or a British
Dependent Territories citizen.

3.17H.2

An application under this section must be made—

3.17H.2.a

in the case of a person aged 18 years or over on the commencement date, before
the end of the period of five years beginning with the commencement date;

3.17H.2.b

in the case of a person aged under 18 on the commencement date, or a person
who is born before the end of the period of five years beginning with the
commencement date, before they reach the age of 23 years.

3.17H.3

In subsection (2), “ the commencement date ” means the date on which this
section comes into force.

##### Sections 1 to 3: related British citizenship

4

4.1

Part 1 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (British citizenship) is amended as
follows.

4.2

After section 4J, insert—

########### Acquisition by registration: certain British overseas territories citizens

4.2.4K

4.2.4K.1

A person is entitled to be registered as a British citizen on an application
made under this section if—

4.2.4K.1.a

they are entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories citizen
under section 17A, 17C, 17D, 17E, 17F or 17H, or

4.2.4K.1.b

they would be entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories
citizen under any of those sections but for the fact that they have already
become a British overseas territories citizen under a different provision.

4.2.4K.2

Subsection (1) does not apply in the case of a person—

4.2.4K.2.a

who is or would be entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories
citizen by virtue only of a connection with the Sovereign Base Areas of
Akrotiri and Dhekelia, or

4.2.4K.2.b

who has previously been a British citizen.

4.2.4K.3

The Secretary of State may not register a person as a British citizen on an
application under subsection (1)(a) unless the person is also registered as a
British overseas territories citizen.

4.3

In section 14 (meaning of British citizen “by descent”), in subsection (1),
after paragraph (da) insert—

4.3.db

the person is a British citizen by virtue of registration under section 4K and
is—

4.3.db.i

a British overseas territories citizen by virtue of registration under section
17A, or

4.3.db.ii

a British overseas territories citizen by descent by virtue of section 17C(3),
17D(2), 17E(2) or 17F(5); or

.

4.4

In Part 5 of that Act (miscellaneous and supplementary), in section 41A
(registration: requirement to be of good character), after subsection (2A)
(inserted by section 2) insert—

4.4.2B

Subsection (2C) applies to an application for registration of an adult or
young person as a British citizen under section 4K who is, or would have been,
entitled to be registered as a British overseas territories citizen under
section 17C, so far as the relevant registration provision (as defined in
section 17C(2)) is section 15(3), 17(2) or 17(5).

4.4.2C

The application must not be granted unless the Secretary of State is satisfied
that the adult or young person is of good character.

##### Period for registration of person born outside the British overseas territories

5

5.1

In section 17 of the British Nationality Act 1981 (acquisition of British
overseas territories citizenship by registration: minors)—

5.1.a

in subsection (2), for “within the period of twelve months from the date of
the birth” substitute  “while the person is a minor” ;

5.1.b

omit subsection (4).

5.2

In section 41A of that Act (registration: good character requirement), in
subsection (2), after “17(1)” insert  “, (2)” .

#### British citizenship

##### Disapplication of historical registration requirements

6

6.1

The British Nationality Act 1981 is amended as follows.

6.2

In section 4C (acquisition by registration: certain persons born before 1983),
for subsection (3D) substitute—

6.2.3D

In determining for the purposes of subsection (3) whether a person would have
been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies, the requirement that a
person’s birth was registered at a United Kingdom consulate, as set out in
section 5(1)(b) of the British Nationality Act 1948, is to be ignored.

6.3

In section 4I (other person unable to become citizen at commencement), after
subsection (1) insert—

6.3.1A

In determining for the purposes of subsection (1)(c)(i) whether a person would
have been a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies, the requirement that a
person’s birth was registered at a United Kingdom consulate, as set out in
section 5(1)(b) of the British Nationality Act 1948, is to be ignored.

##### Citizenship where mother married to someone other than natural father

7

7.1

The British Nationality Act 1981 is amended as follows.

7.2

In section 4E (the general conditions)—

7.2.a

omit paragraph (a) (requirement that applicant was born before 1 July 2006);

7.2.b

in paragraph (c), after “1990” insert  “or under section 35 or 36 of the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008” ;

7.2.c

after paragraph (c) (but before the “and”) insert—

7.2.c.ca

no person is treated as a parent of P under section 42 or 43 of the Human
Fertilisation and Embryology Act 2008;

.

7.3

In section 4F (person unable to be registered under other provisions of this
Act), in subsection (1)(b), after sub-paragraph (iii) insert—

7.3.iiia

section 4D,

.

7.4

In section 41A (registration: requirement to be of good character), in
subsection (1A), for “or 3(5)” substitute  “, 3(5) or 4D” .

#### Powers of the Secretary of State relating to citizenship etc

##### Citizenship: registration in special cases

8

8.1

The British Nationality Act 1981 is amended as follows.

8.2

After section 4K (as inserted by section 4) insert—

########### Acquisition by registration: special circumstances

8.2.4L

8.2.4L.1

If an application is made for a person of full age and capacity (“ P ”) to be
registered as a British citizen, the Secretary of State may cause P to be
registered as such a citizen if, in the Secretary of State’s opinion, P would
have been, or would have been able to become, a British citizen but for—

8.2.4L.1.a

historical legislative unfairness,

8.2.4L.1.b

an act or omission of a public authority, or

8.2.4L.1.c

exceptional circumstances relating to P.

8.2.4L.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), “ historical legislative unfairness ”
includes circumstances where P would have become, or would not have ceased to
be, a British subject, a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies or a
British citizen, if an Act of Parliament or subordinate legislation (within
the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978) had, for the purposes of
determining a person’s nationality status—

8.2.4L.2.a

treated males and females equally,

8.2.4L.2.b

treated children of unmarried couples in the same way as children of married
couples, or

8.2.4L.2.c

treated children of couples where the mother was married to someone other than
the natural father in the same way as children of couples where the mother was
married to the natural father.

8.2.4L.3

In subsection (1)(b), “ public authority ” means any public authority within
the meaning of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, other than a court or
tribunal.

8.2.4L.4

In considering whether to grant an application under this section, the
Secretary of State may take into account whether the applicant is of good
character.

8.3

After section 17H (as inserted by section 3), insert—

########### Acquisition by registration: special circumstances

8.3.17I

8.3.17I.1

If an application is made for a person of full age and capacity (“ P ”) to be
registered as a British overseas territories citizen, the Secretary of State
may cause P to be registered as such a citizen if, in the Secretary of State’s
opinion, P would have been, or would have been able to become, a British
overseas territories citizen but for—

8.3.17I.1.a

historical legislative unfairness,

8.3.17I.1.b

an act or omission of a public authority, or

8.3.17I.1.c

exceptional circumstances relating to P.

8.3.17I.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), “ historical legislative unfairness ”
includes circumstances where P would have become, or would not have ceased to
be, a British subject, a citizen of the United Kingdom and Colonies, a British
Dependent Territories Citizen or a British overseas territories citizen, if an
Act of Parliament or subordinate legislation (within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978) had, for the purposes of determining a person’s
nationality status—

8.3.17I.2.a

treated males and females equally,

8.3.17I.2.b

treated children of unmarried couples in the same way as children of married
couples, or

8.3.17I.2.c

treated children of couples where the mother was married to someone other than
the natural father in the same way as children of couples where the mother was
married to the natural father.

8.3.17I.3

In subsection (1)(b), “ public authority ” means any public authority within
the meaning of section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998, other than a court or
tribunal.

8.3.17I.4

In considering whether to grant an application under this section, the
Secretary of State may take into account whether the applicant is of good
character.

##### Requirements for naturalisation etc

9

9.1

Schedule 1 amends the British Nationality Act 1981 to allow the Secretary of
State to waive the requirement that a person must have been in the United
Kingdom or a relevant territory at the start of the relevant period, in
relation to an application for citizenship under—

9.1.a

section 4 of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by registration:
British overseas territories citizens etc),

9.1.b

section 6 of that Act (acquisition of British citizenship by naturalisation),
or

9.1.c

section 18 of that Act (acquisition of British overseas territories
citizenship by naturalisation).

9.2

Schedule 1 also amends the British Nationality Act 1981 to allow the Secretary
of State to treat a person who has indefinite leave to enter or remain as
meeting certain residence requirements in relation to an application for
citizenship under those sections.

9.3

In the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009—

9.3.a

omit sections 39, 40, 41(1) to (3) and 49(2) and (3) (uncommenced provisions
relating to requirements for naturalisation as a British citizen);

9.3.b

in section 41(4), for “that section” substitute  “section 41 of the British
Nationality Act 1981 (regulations)” .

9.4

In the Citizenship (Armed Forces) Act 2014, in section 1, omit subsection (4)
(amendments to section 39 of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act
2009).

##### Notice of decision to deprive a person of citizenship

10

10.1

In this section, “ the 1981 Act ” means the British Nationality Act 1981.

10.2

In section 40 of the 1981 Act (deprivation of citizenship), after subsection
(5) (which requires notice to be given to a person to be deprived of
citizenship) insert—

10.2.5A

Subsection (5) does not apply if—

10.2.5A.a

the Secretary of State does not have the information needed to be able to give
notice under that subsection,

10.2.5A.b

the Secretary of State reasonably considers it necessary, in the interests of—

10.2.5A.b.i

national security,

10.2.5A.b.ii

the investigation or prosecution of organised or serious crime,

10.2.5A.b.iii

preventing or reducing a risk to the safety of any person, or

10.2.5A.b.iv

the relationship between the United Kingdom and another country,

that notice under that subsection should not be given.

10.2.5B

In subsection  (5A) , references to giving notice under subsection (5) are to
giving that notice in accordance with such regulations under section 41(1)(e)
as for the time being apply.

10.2.5C

Subsection (5D) applies where—

10.2.5C.a

the Secretary of State has made an order under subsection (2) and, in reliance
on subsection (5A), has not given the notice required by subsection (5), and

10.2.5C.b

the person in respect of whom the order was made makes contact with the
Secretary of State for the Home Department.

10.2.5D

The Secretary of State must, as soon as is reasonably practicable, give the
person written notice specifying—

10.2.5D.a

that the Secretary of State has made the order,

10.2.5D.b

the reasons for the order, and

10.2.5D.c

the person’s right of appeal under section 40A(1) or under section 2B of the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997.

10.2.5E

Schedule 4A makes provision for the Special Immigration Appeals Commission to
consider a decision of the Secretary of State—

10.2.5E.a

not to give notice to a person before depriving them of a citizenship status
on the grounds mentioned in subsection (2) (deprivation conducive to the
public good), or

10.2.5E.b

not to give late notice to a person who has been deprived of a citizenship
status on those grounds without having been given prior notice.

10.3

In section 40A of the 1981 Act (appeals against deprivation of citizenship)—

10.3.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

10.3.a.1

A person—

10.3.a.1.a

who is given notice under section 40(5) of a decision to make an order in
respect of the person under section 40, or

10.3.a.1.b

in respect of whom an order under section 40 is made without the person having
been given notice under section 40(5) of the decision to make the order,

may appeal against the decision to the First-tier Tribunal.

10.3.b

after subsection (2) insert—

10.3.b.2A

In the case of an order made as described in subsection (1)(b), for the
purposes of any rule or other provision limiting the time within which an
appeal under this section may be brought, time does not start to run unless
and until the person is given notice of the fact that the order has been made
(see section 40(5D) and Schedule 4A).

10.4

After Schedule 4 to the 1981 Act insert the Schedule 4A set out in Schedule 2.

10.5

In the British Nationality (General) Regulations 2003 ( S.I. 2003/548 ), in
regulation 10 (notice of proposed deprivation of citizenship), omit paragraph
(4).

10.6

A failure to comply with the duty under section 40(5) of the 1981 Act in
respect of a pre-commencement deprivation order does not affect, and is to be
treated as never having affected, the validity of the order.

10.7

In subsection  (6) , “ pre-commencement deprivation order ” means an order
made or purportedly made under section 40 of the 1981 Act before the coming
into force of subsections  (2)  to  (5)  (whether before or after the coming
into force of subsection  (6) ).

10.8

A person may appeal against a decision to make an order to which subsection
(6)  applies as if notice of the decision had been given to the person under
section 40(5) of the 1981 Act on the day on which the order was made or
purportedly made.

#### Registration of stateless minors

##### Citizenship: stateless minors

11

11.1

Schedule 2 to the British Nationality Act 1981 (provisions for reducing
statelessness) is amended as follows.

11.2

In the heading before paragraph 3, after “Persons” insert  “aged 18 to 22” .

11.3

In paragraph 3 (persons born in the United Kingdom or a British overseas
territory after commencement), in sub-paragraph (1)(b) after “he” insert  “had
attained the age of eighteen but” .

11.4

After paragraph 3 insert—

########### Minors aged 5 to 17 born in the United Kingdom or a British overseas territory after commencement

11.4.3A

11.4.3A.1

A person born in the United Kingdom or a British overseas territory after
commencement is entitled, on an application for the person to be registered
under this paragraph, to be so registered if—

11.4.3A.1.a

the person is and always has been stateless,

11.4.3A.1.b

on the date of the application, the person was a minor,

11.4.3A.1.c

the person was in the United Kingdom or a British overseas territory (no
matter which) at the beginning of the period of five years ending with that
date and (subject to paragraph 6) the number of days on which the person was
absent from both the United Kingdom and the British overseas territories in
that period does not exceed 450, and

11.4.3A.1.d

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person is unable to acquire
another nationality in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

11.4.3A.2

A person is able to acquire a nationality in accordance with this sub-
paragraph if—

11.4.3A.2.a

the nationality is the same as that of one of the person’s parents,

11.4.3A.2.b

the person has been entitled to acquire the nationality since birth, and

11.4.3A.2.c

in all the circumstances, it is reasonable to expect the person (or someone
acting on their behalf) to take the steps which would enable the person to
acquire the nationality in question.

11.4.3A.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) (b), a person is not entitled to
acquire a nationality if its acquisition is conditional on the exercise of a
discretion on the part of the country or territory in question.

11.4.3A.4

A person entitled to registration under this paragraph—

11.4.3A.4.a

is to be registered as a British citizen if, in the period of five years
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), the number of days wholly or partly spent by
the person in the United Kingdom exceeds the number of days wholly or partly
spent by the person in the British overseas territory;

11.4.3A.4.b

in any other case, is to be registered as a British overseas territories
citizen.

11.5

In paragraph 6 (supplementary), after “paragraph 3” insert  “, 3A” .

### Asylum

#### Treatment of refugees; support for asylum-seekers

##### Differential treatment of refugees

12

12.1

For the purposes of this section—

12.1.a

a refugee is a Group 1 refugee if they have complied with both of the
requirements set out in subsection  (2)  and, where applicable, the additional
requirement in subsection  (3) ;

12.1.b

otherwise, a refugee is a Group 2 refugee.

12.2

The requirements in this subsection are that—

12.2.a

they have come to the United Kingdom directly from a country or territory
where their life or freedom was threatened (in the sense of Article 1 of the
Refugee Convention), and

12.2.b

they have presented themselves without delay to the authorities.

Subsections (1) to (3) of section 37 apply in relation to the interpretation
of paragraphs (a) and (b) as they apply in relation to the interpretation of
those requirements in Article 31(1) of the Refugee Convention.

12.3

Where a refugee has entered or is present in the United Kingdom unlawfully,
the additional requirement is that they can show good cause for their unlawful
entry or presence.

12.4

For the purposes of subsection  (3) , a person’s entry into or presence in the
United Kingdom is unlawful if they require leave to enter or remain and do not
have it.

12.5

The Secretary of State or an immigration officer may treat Group 1 and Group 2
refugees differently, for example in respect of—

12.5.a

the length of any period of limited leave to enter or remain which is given to
the refugee;

12.5.b

the requirements that the refugee must meet in order to be given indefinite
leave to remain;

12.5.c

whether a condition under section 3(1)(c)(ii) of the Immigration Act 1971 (no
recourse to public funds) is attached to any period of limited leave to enter
or remain that is given to the refugee;

12.5.d

whether leave to enter or remain is given to members of the refugee’s family.

12.6

The Secretary of State or an immigration officer may also treat the family
members of Group 1 and Group 2 refugees differently, for example in respect
of—

12.6.a

whether to give the person leave to enter or remain;

12.6.b

the length of any period of limited leave to enter or remain which is given to
the person;

12.6.c

the requirements that the person must meet in order to be given indefinite
leave to remain;

12.6.d

whether a condition under section 3(1)(c)(ii) of the Immigration Act 1971 (no
recourse to public funds) is attached to any period of limited leave to enter
or remain that is given to the person.

12.7

But subsection  (6)  does not apply to family members who are refugees
themselves.

12.8

Immigration rules may include provision for the differential treatment allowed
for by subsections  (5)  and  (6) .

12.9

In this section—

      “ limited leave ” and “ indefinite leave ” have the same meaning as in
the Immigration Act 1971 (see section 33 of that Act);           “ refugee ”
has the same meaning as in the Refugee Convention.

##### Accommodation for asylum-seekers etc

13

13.1

In section 97 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (support for asylum-
seekers: supplemental matters), after subsection (3) insert—

13.1.3A

When exercising the power under section 95 (support for asylum seekers) or
section 4 (accommodation for failed asylum seekers) to provide or arrange for
the provision of accommodation, the Secretary of State may decide to provide
or arrange for the provision of different types of accommodation to persons
supported under those sections on the basis of either or both of the following
matters—

13.1.3A.a

the stage that their claim for asylum has reached, including whether they have
been notified that their claim is being considered for a declaration of
inadmissibility (see sections 80A and 80B of the Nationality, Immigration and
Asylum Act 2002);

13.1.3A.b

their previous compliance with any conditions imposed on them under any of the
following—

13.1.3A.b.i

section 95(9) (conditions for support under section 95);

13.1.3A.b.ii

Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act 2016 (conditions of immigration bail);

13.1.3A.b.iii

regulations made under section 4(6) (conditions for support under section 4).

13.2

In section 97(3A) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (as inserted by
subsection (1))—

13.2.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

13.2.a.i

for “section 4 (accommodation for failed asylum seekers)” substitute  “section
95A (support for failed asylum seekers)” ;

13.2.a.ii

for “persons supported under those sections” substitute  “supported persons” ;

13.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “claim for asylum” substitute  “protection claim” ;

13.2.c

in paragraph (b)—

13.2.c.i

for sub-paragraph (iii) substitute—

13.2.c.i.iii

regulations made under section 95A(5) (conditions for support under section
95A);

;

13.2.c.ii

at the end insert—

13.2.c.ii.iv

regulations made under section 30 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum
Act 2002 (conditions of residence in accommodation centre).

13.3

In section 98 of that Act (temporary support for asylum-seekers etc), at the
end insert—

13.3.4

Subsection (3A) of section 97 applies to the power to provide, or arrange for
the provision of, accommodation under this section as it applies to the power
to do so under section 95.

13.4

In section 98A of that Act (temporary support for failed asylum-seekers etc),
at the end insert—

13.4.5

Subsection (3A) of section 97 applies to the power to provide, or arrange for
the provision of, accommodation under this section as it applies to the power
to do so under section 95A.

13.5

In section 17 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (support for
destitute asylum-seeker), in subsection (1), at the end insert—

See also section 97(3A) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (decision on
type of accommodation for asylum-seekers etc).

13.6

In section 22 of that Act—

13.6.a

after “95” insert  “or 98” ;

13.6.b

for “(destitute asylum-seeker)” substitute  “(support and temporary support
for asylum-seekers)” ;

13.6.c

in the heading, for “s. 95” substitute  “sections 95 and 98” .

13.7

After section 22 of that Act, insert—

########### Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, sections 95A and 98A

13.7.22A

The Secretary of State may provide support under section 95A or 98A of the
Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (support and temporary support for failed
asylum-seekers) by arranging for the provision of accommodation in an
accommodation centre.

13.8

In section 24 of that Act (provisional assistance), in subsection (1), at the
end insert—

See also section 98(4) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (decision on
type of accommodation for asylum-seekers etc).

13.9

In section 25 of that Act (length of stay in accommodation centre), in
subsection (4), for “shorter” substitute  “different” .

13.10

In section 27 of that Act (resident of centre), after paragraph (b) insert—

13.10.ba

by virtue of section 22A,

.

#### Place of claim

##### Requirement to make asylum claim at “designated place”

14

14.1

An asylum claim must be made in person at a designated place.

14.2

A “ designated place ” means any of the following places in the United
Kingdom—

14.2.a

a place identified in a notice published by the Secretary of State as an
asylum intake unit;

14.2.b

a removal centre (within the meaning of section 147 of the Immigration and
Asylum Act 1999);

14.2.c

a port (within the meaning of section 33 of the Immigration Act 1971);

14.2.d

a place where there is a person present who, for the purposes of the
immigration rules, is authorised to accept an asylum claim on behalf of the
Secretary of State;

14.2.e

a place to which the claimant has been directed by the Secretary of State or
an immigration officer to make the claim;

14.2.f

such other place, or a place of such other description, as the Secretary of
State may by regulations designate.

14.3

The Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 is amended in accordance with
subsections (4) and (5).

14.4

In section 18(1)(c) omit “at a place designated by the Secretary of State”.

14.5

In section 113(1), in the definition of “asylum claim”, omit “at a place
designated by the Secretary of State”.

14.6

In this section “ asylum claim ” means a claim made in accordance with the
immigration rules by a person to the Secretary of State that to remove the
person from, or require the person to leave, the United Kingdom would breach
the United Kingdom’s obligations under the Refugee Convention.

14.7

The reference to the United Kingdom in subsection (2), so far as it has effect
for the purposes of paragraph (d) of that subsection, does not include a
reference to the territorial sea of the United Kingdom.

14.8

Regulations under subsection (2)(f) are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

#### Inadmissibility

##### Asylum claims by EU nationals: inadmissibility

15

15.1

After Part 4 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 insert—

########### Inadmissible asylum claims

############ Asylum claims by EU nationals

15.1.80A

15.1.80A.1

The Secretary of State must declare an asylum claim made by a person who is a
national of a member State inadmissible.

15.1.80A.2

An asylum claim declared inadmissible under subsection (1) cannot be
considered under the immigration rules.

15.1.80A.3

A declaration under subsection (1) that an asylum claim is inadmissible is not
a decision to refuse the claim and, accordingly, no right of appeal under
section 82(1)(a) (appeal against refusal of protection claim) arises.

15.1.80A.4

Subsection (1) does not apply if there are exceptional circumstances as a
result of which the Secretary of State considers that the claim ought to be
considered.

15.1.80A.5

For the purposes of subsection  (4)  exceptional circumstances include where
the member State of which the claimant is a national—

15.1.80A.5.a

is derogating from any of its obligations under the Human Rights Convention,
in accordance with Article 15 of the Convention;

15.1.80A.5.b

is the subject of a proposal initiated in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 7(1) of the Treaty on European Union and—

15.1.80A.5.b.i

the proposal has yet to be determined by the Council of the European Union or
(as the case may be) the European Council,

15.1.80A.5.b.ii

the Council of the European Union has determined, in accordance with Article
7(1), that there is a clear risk of a serious breach by the member State of
the values referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty, or

15.1.80A.5.b.iii

the European Council has determined, in accordance with Article 7(2), the
existence of a serious and persistent breach by the member State of the values
referred to in Article 2 of the Treaty.

15.1.80A.6

In this section—

      “ asylum claim ”, “ the Human Rights Convention ” and “ the Refugee
Convention ” have the meanings given by section 113;           “ immigration
rules ” means rules under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971;
“ the Treaty on European Union ” means the Treaty on European Union signed at
Maastricht on 7 February 1992 as it had effect immediately before IP
completion day.

15.2

In consequence of the amendment made by subsection (1), in regulation 4(4)(d)
of the Asylum Support Regulations 2000 ( S.I. 2000/704 ) (persons excluded
from support), for “under the immigration rules” substitute  “(see section 80A
of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002)” .

##### Asylum claims by persons with connection to safe third State: inadmissibility

16

In Part 4A of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (as inserted by
section 15), after section 80A insert—

######### Asylum claims by persons with connection to safe third State

16.80B

16.80B.1

The Secretary of State may declare an asylum claim made by a person (a
“claimant”) who has a connection to a safe third State inadmissible.

16.80B.2

Subject to subsection  (7) , an asylum claim declared inadmissible under
subsection (1) cannot be considered under the immigration rules.

16.80B.3

A declaration under subsection (1) that an asylum claim is inadmissible is not
a decision to refuse the claim and, accordingly, no right of appeal under
section 82(1)(a) (appeal against refusal of protection claim) arises.

16.80B.4

For the purposes of this section, a State is a “ safe third State ” in
relation to a claimant if—

16.80B.4.a

the claimant’s life and liberty are not threatened in that State by reason of
their race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or
political opinion,

16.80B.4.b

the State is one from which a person will not be sent to another State—

16.80B.4.b.i

otherwise than in accordance with the Refugee Convention, or

16.80B.4.b.ii

in contravention of their rights under Article 3 of the Human Rights
Convention (freedom from torture or inhuman or degrading treatment), and

16.80B.4.c

a person may apply to be recognised as a refugee and (if so recognised)
receive protection in accordance with the Refugee Convention, in that State.

16.80B.5

For the purposes of this section, a claimant has “a connection” to a safe
third State if they meet any of conditions 1 to 5 set out in section 80C in
relation to the State.

16.80B.6

The fact that an asylum claim has been declared inadmissible under subsection
(1) by virtue of the claimant’s connection to a particular safe third State
does not prevent the Secretary of State from removing the claimant to any
other safe third State.

16.80B.7

An asylum claim that has been declared inadmissible under subsection (1) may
nevertheless be considered under the immigration rules—

16.80B.7.a

if the Secretary of State determines that there are exceptional circumstances
in the particular case that mean the claim should be considered, or

16.80B.7.b

in such other cases as may be provided for in the immigration rules.

16.80B.8

In this section and section 80C—

16.80B.8.a

“ asylum claim ”, “ Human Rights Convention ”, “ immigration rules ” and “ the
Refugee Convention ” have the same meanings as in section 80A;

16.80B.8.b

a reference to anything being done in accordance with the Refugee Convention
is a reference to the thing being done in accordance with the principles of
the Convention, whether or not by a signatory to it.

######### Meaning of “connection” to a safe third State

16.80C

16.80C.1

Condition 1 is that the claimant—

16.80C.1.a

has been recognised as a refugee in the safe third State, and

16.80C.1.b

remains able to access protection in accordance with the Refugee Convention in
that State.

16.80C.2

Condition 2 is that the claimant—

16.80C.2.a

has otherwise been granted protection in a safe third State as a result of
which the claimant would not be sent from the safe third State to another
State—

16.80C.2.a.i

otherwise than in accordance with the Refugee Convention, or

16.80C.2.a.ii

in contravention of their rights under Article 3 of the Human Rights
Convention, and

16.80C.2.b

remains able to access that protection in that State.

16.80C.3

Condition 3 is that the claimant has made a relevant claim to the safe third
State and the claim—

16.80C.3.a

has not yet been determined, or

16.80C.3.b

has been refused.

16.80C.4

Condition 4 is that—

16.80C.4.a

the claimant was previously present in, and eligible to make a relevant claim
to, the safe third State,

16.80C.4.b

it would have been reasonable to expect them to make such a claim, and

16.80C.4.c

they failed to do so.

16.80C.5

Condition 5 is that, in the claimant’s particular circumstances, it would have
been reasonable to expect them to have made a relevant claim to the safe third
State (instead of making a claim in the United Kingdom).

16.80C.6

For the purposes of this section, a “relevant claim” to a safe third State is
a claim—

16.80C.6.a

to be recognised as a refugee in the State for the purposes of the Refugee
Convention, or

16.80C.6.b

for protection in the State of the kind mentioned in subsection (2)(a).

16.80C.7

For the purposes of this section “ claimant ” and “ safe third State ” have
the same meanings as in section 80B; and see subsection  (8)  of that section.

##### Clarification of basis for support where asylum claim inadmissible

17

17.1

The Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2) and (3).

17.2

If paragraph 1 of Schedule 11 to the Immigration Act 2016, which repeals
section 4 of the 1999 Act, is not yet in force on the day this section comes
into force, in subsection (2)(b) of that section, after “was rejected” insert
“or declared inadmissible (see sections 80A and 80B of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002)” .

17.3

In section 94 (interpretation of Part 6: support for asylum-seekers etc),
after subsection (4) insert—

17.3.4A

For the purposes of the definitions of “asylum-seeker” and “failed asylum-
seeker”, the circumstances in which a claim is determined or rejected include
where the claim is declared inadmissible under section 80A or 80B of the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002.

17.3.4B

But if a claim is—

17.3.4B.a

declared inadmissible under section 80B of that Act, and

17.3.4B.b

nevertheless considered by the Secretary of State in accordance subsection (7)
of that section,

the claim ceases to be treated as determined or rejected from the time of the
decision to consider the claim.

17.3.4C

For the purposes of subsection (3), notification of a declaration of
inadmissibility under section 80A or 80B of that Act is to be treated as
notification of the Secretary of State’s decision on the claim.

17.4

The Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 is amended as follows.

17.5

In section 18 (asylum-seeker: definition), after subsection (1) insert—

17.5.1ZA

For the purposes of subsection (1), the circumstances in which a claim is
determined include where the claim is declared inadmissible under section 80A
or 80B.

17.5.1ZB

But if a claim is—

17.5.1ZB.a

declared inadmissible under section 80B, and

17.5.1ZB.b

nevertheless considered by the Secretary of State in accordance subsection (7)
of that section,

the claim ceases to be treated as determined from the time of the decision to
consider the claim.

17.6

In section 21 (sections 17 to 20: supplementary), in subsection (3)(a), at the
end insert  “or (as the case may be) of the declaration of inadmissibility
under section 80A or 80B” .

17.7

In paragraph 17 of Schedule 3 (withholding and withdrawal of support:
interpretation), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

17.7.2A

For the purposes of the definition of “asylum-seeker” in sub-paragraph (1), a
claim is also determined if the Secretary of State has notified the claimant
that it has been declared inadmissible under section 80A or 80B.

17.7.2B

But if a claim is—

17.7.2B.a

declared inadmissible under section 80B, and

17.7.2B.b

nevertheless considered by the Secretary of State in accordance subsection (7)
of that section,

the claim ceases to be treated as determined from the time of the decision to
consider the claim.

#### Supporting evidence

##### Provision of evidence in support of protection or human rights claim

18

18.1

The Secretary of State or an immigration officer may serve an evidence notice
on a person who has made a protection claim or a human rights claim.

18.2

An “evidence notice” is a notice requiring the recipient to provide, before
the specified date, any evidence in support of the claim.

18.3

Subsection  (5)  applies if the recipient of an evidence notice provides the
Secretary of State or an immigration officer with evidence in support of the
claim on or after the specified date.

18.4

Subsection (5) also applies if the recipient of an evidence notice provides
the First-tier Tribunal, the Upper Tribunal (when acting in the circumstances
mentioned in section 22(9)) or the Special Immigration Appeals Commission with
evidence in support of the claim where the evidence—

18.4.a

should have been provided in response to the evidence notice but was not, and

18.4.b

is provided on or after the specified date.

18.5

The recipient must also provide a statement setting out their reasons for not
providing the evidence before the specified date (and see section 26 of this
Act and section 8 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc)
Act 2004).

18.6

In this section, “ specified date ” means the date specified in an evidence
notice.

##### Asylum or human rights claim: damage to claimant’s credibility

19

19.1

Section 8 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004
(claimant’s credibility) is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to  (6)
.

19.2

After subsection (1) insert—

19.2.1A

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that, where the deciding authority is the
First-tier Tribunal, it must include, as part of its reasons for a decision
that disposes of proceedings, a statement explaining—

19.2.1A.a

whether it considers that the claimant has engaged in behaviour to which this
section applies, and

19.2.1A.b

if it considers that the claimant has engaged in such behaviour, how it has
taken account of the behaviour in making its decision.

19.2.1B

Rules under section 5 of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997
(SIAC procedure rules) must secure that, where the deciding authority is the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission, it must include, as part of its
reasons for a decision that determines proceedings, a statement explaining the
matters mentioned in subsection (1A)(a) and (b).

19.3

After subsection (3) insert—

19.3.3A

This section also applies to any relevant behaviour by the claimant that the
deciding authority thinks is not in good faith.

19.3.3B

In subsection (3A) “ relevant behaviour ” means behaviour—

19.3.3B.a

in connection with the asylum claim or human rights claim in question or (in
the case of an appeal relating to such a claim) the appeal in question,

19.3.3B.b

in any dealings with a person exercising immigration and nationality
functions, or

19.3.3B.c

in connection with—

19.3.3B.c.i

a claim made, or civil proceedings brought, under any provision of immigration
legislation, or

19.3.3B.c.ii

judicial review proceedings, or (in Scotland) an application to the
supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of Session, relating to a decision taken
by a person in exercise of immigration and nationality functions.

19.4

After subsection (6) insert—

19.4.6A

This section also applies to the late provision by the claimant of evidence in
relation to the asylum claim or human rights claim in question, unless there
are good reasons why the evidence was provided late.

19.4.6B

For the purposes of subsection (6A), evidence is provided “late” by the
claimant if—

19.4.6B.a

it is provided pursuant to an evidence notice served on the claimant under
section 18(1) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022, and

19.4.6B.b

it is provided on or after the date specified in the notice.

19.5

In subsection (7), at the appropriate places insert—

      “ immigration and nationality functions ” means functions exercisable by
virtue of—         the Immigration Acts (but see subsection (9B)), or
the Nationality Acts;

;

      “ immigration legislation ” means—         the Immigration Acts,
the Nationality Acts, and           rules under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971 (general immigration rules);

;

      “ Nationality Acts ” means—         the British Nationality Act 1981,
the Hong Kong Act 1985,           the Hong Kong (War Wives and Widows) Act
1996, and           the British Nationality (Hong Kong) Act 1997;

.

19.6

After subsection (9A) insert—

19.6.9B

In paragraph (a) of the definition of “immigration and nationality functions”
in subsection (7), the reference to the Immigration Acts does not include a
reference to—

19.6.9B.a

sections 28A to 28K of the Immigration Act 1971 (powers of arrest, entry and
search, etc), or

19.6.9B.b

section 14 of this Act (power of arrest).

19.7

The amendments made by this section apply in relation to a determination
mentioned in section 8(1) of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of
Claimants, etc) Act 2004 only where—

19.7.a

the asylum claim or human rights claim to which the determination relates was
made, or

19.7.b

if the determination is made in appeal proceedings, the appeal was brought,

on or after the day on which this section comes into force.

#### Priority removal notices

##### Priority removal notices

20

20.1

The Secretary of State or an immigration officer may serve a person who is
liable to removal or deportation from the United Kingdom with a priority
removal notice.

20.2

A person who receives such a notice is referred to in this section as the “PRN
recipient”.

20.3

A priority removal notice is a notice—

20.3.a

requiring the PRN recipient to provide to the Secretary of State (and any
other competent authority specified in the notice)—

20.3.a.i

a statement setting out the matters described in section 120(2)(a) to (c) of
the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (reasons and grounds for
application etc),

20.3.a.ii

any relevant status information (within the meaning given by section 58 (3) ),
and

20.3.a.iii

any evidence in support of the matters mentioned in sub-paragraphs (i) and
(ii), and

20.3.b

setting out the date (the “PRN cut-off date”) before which the PRN recipient
must comply with that requirement.

20.4

The requirement in subsection  (3)(a)  does not apply in relation to anything
that the PRN recipient has previously provided to the Secretary of State or
any other competent authority.

20.5

Subsection  (7)  applies if the PRN recipient provides the Secretary of State
or any other competent authority with any statement, information or evidence
mentioned in subsection  (3)(a)  on or after the PRN cut-off date.

20.6

Subsection (7) also applies if the PRN recipient provides the First-tier
Tribunal, the Upper Tribunal (when acting in the circumstances mentioned in
section 22(9)) or the Special Immigration Appeals Commission with any
statement, information or evidence mentioned in subsection (3)(a) that—

20.6.a

should have been provided in response to the priority removal notice but was
not, and

20.6.b

is provided on or after the PRN cut-off date.

20.7

The PRN recipient must also provide a statement setting out their reasons for
not providing the statement, information or evidence before the PRN cut-off
date (and see sections 22 and 26).

20.8

For the purposes of this section, a person is “liable to removal or
deportation from the United Kingdom” if they are liable to—

20.8.a

removal under section 10 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (removal of
persons unlawfully in the United Kingdom), or

20.8.b

deportation under section 3(5) or (6) of the Immigration Act 1971 (deportation
of foreign nationals where conducive to the public good or on conviction of
offence punishable with imprisonment etc).

20.9

In this section “ competent authority ” has the same meaning as in Part 5 (see
section 69).

##### Priority removal notices: supplementary

21

21.1

A priority removal notice remains in force until the end of the period of 12
months beginning with—

21.1.a

the PRN cut-off date, or

21.1.b

if later, the day on which any appeal rights of the PRN recipient in respect
of a relevant claim are exhausted.

See section 82A of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (the “
2002 Act ”) for the consequences of a priority removal notice being in force.

21.2

In subsection (1) “ relevant claim ” means a protection claim or a human
rights claim brought by the PRN recipient while the priority removal notice is
in force.

21.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1) , the PRN recipient’s appeal rights in
respect of a claim are exhausted at the time when—

21.3.a

the PRN recipient’s claim has been determined,

21.3.b

the PRN recipient could not bring an appeal in respect of the claim under
section 82 of the 2002 Act (ignoring any possibility of an appeal out of time
with permission), and

21.3.c

no appeal brought by the PRN recipient is pending within the meaning of
section 104 of that Act.

21.4

A priority removal notice remains in force until the end of the period
mentioned in subsection (1) even if the PRN recipient ceases to be liable to
removal or deportation from the United Kingdom during that period.

21.5

A priority removal notice may not be served on a person in relation to whom
such a notice is already in force (but this does not prevent a further notice
from being served once the previous notice ceases to be in force as mentioned
in subsection  (1) ).

21.6

Subsection  (7)  applies if the PRN recipient has previously been served with—

21.6.a

an evidence notice under section 18,

21.6.b

a slavery or trafficking information notice under section 58, or

21.6.c

a notice under section 120 of the 2002 Act (requirement to provide reasons and
grounds).

21.7

The previous notice ceases to have effect on the service of the priority
removal notice.

21.8

Expressions used in this section that are defined for the purposes of section
20 have the same meaning in this section as in that section.

##### Late compliance with priority removal notice: damage to credibility

22

22.1

This section applies where—

22.1.a

a PRN recipient provided material in response to the priority removal notice
served on them,

22.1.b

the material was provided late, and

22.1.c

a relevant decision is being made.

22.2

This section also applies where—

22.2.a

a PRN recipient provided material to the First-tier Tribunal, the Upper
Tribunal (when acting in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (9)) or the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission,

22.2.b

the material should have been provided in response to the priority removal
notice served on the PRN recipient but was not,

22.2.c

the material was provided late, and

22.2.d

a relevant decision is being made.

22.3

A “relevant decision” is being made if—

22.3.a

a protection claim or a human rights claim made by the PRN recipient is being
considered, or

22.3.b

a competent authority is making a reasonable grounds decision or a conclusive
grounds decision in relation to the PRN recipient (decisions concerning status
as victim of slavery or human trafficking).

22.4

In determining whether to believe a statement made by or on behalf of the PRN
recipient, a deciding authority must take account, as damaging the PRN
recipient’s credibility, of the late provision of the material, unless there
are good reasons why it was provided late.

22.5

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that, where the First-tier Tribunal or
the Upper Tribunal (when acting in the circumstances mentioned in subsection
(9)) is making a decision that disposes of proceedings, it must include, as
part of its reasons for the decision, a statement explaining—

22.5.a

whether it considers that this section applies, and

22.5.b

if it considers that this section does apply, how, in making its decision, it
has taken account of the fact that the PRN recipient provided the material
late.

22.6

Rules under section 5 of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997
(SIAC procedure rules) must secure that, where the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission is making a decision that determines proceedings, it must include,
as part of its reasons for the decision, a statement explaining the matters
mentioned in subsection (5)(a) and (b).

22.7

For the purposes of this section, material is provided “late” by the PRN
recipient if it is provided on or after the PRN cut-off date.

22.8

In subsection (4) “deciding authority”—

22.8.a

in relation to a decision mentioned in subsection (3)(a) means—

22.8.a.i

the Secretary of State,

22.8.a.ii

an immigration officer,

22.8.a.iii

the First-tier Tribunal,

22.8.a.iv

the Upper Tribunal in the circumstances described in subsection (9), or

22.8.a.v

the Special Immigration Appeals Commission;

22.8.b

in relation to a decision mentioned in subsection (3)(b), means the competent
authority.

22.9

The circumstances are when the Upper Tribunal is acting—

22.9.a

under section 12(2)(b)(ii) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007
(Upper Tribunal re-making First-tier Tribunal decision on finding of error of
law), or

22.9.b

in relation to—

22.9.b.i

an expedited appeal within the meaning of section 82A of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, or

22.9.b.ii

an expedited related appeal within the meaning of section 24 that involves a
protection claim or a human rights claim.

22.10

In this section—

      “ competent authority ”, “ conclusive grounds decision ” and “
reasonable grounds decision ” have the same meanings as in Part 5;           “
priority removal notice ”, “ PRN cut-off date ”, “ PRN recipient ” and “
relevant status information ” have the same meanings as in section 20.

22.11

Section 26 makes further provision about the effect of a PRN recipient
providing evidence late.

##### Priority removal notices: expedited appeals

23

23.1

After section 82 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 insert—

########### Expedited appeal to Upper Tribunal in certain cases

23.1.82A

23.1.82A.1

This section applies where —

23.1.82A.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has been served with a priority removal notice,

23.1.82A.1.b

P has made a protection claim or a human rights claim on or after the PRN cut-
off date but while the priority removal notice is still in force, and

23.1.82A.1.c

P has a right under section 82(1) to bring an appeal from within the United
Kingdom (see section 92) in relation to the claim.

23.1.82A.2

The Secretary of State must certify P’s right of appeal under this section,
unless satisfied that there were good reasons for P making the claim on or
after the PRN cut-off date (and P’s right of appeal may not be certified if
the Secretary of State is satisfied that there were good reasons).

23.1.82A.3

If certified under this section, P’s right of appeal under section 82(1) is to
the Upper Tribunal instead of the First-tier Tribunal (and any appeal brought
pursuant to such a right is referred to in this section as an “ expedited
appeal ”).

23.1.82A.4

Tribunal Procedure Rules must make provision with a view to securing that
expedited appeals are brought and determined more quickly than an appeal under
section 82(1) would, in the normal course of events, be brought and determined
by the First-tier Tribunal.

23.1.82A.5

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that the Upper Tribunal may, if it is
satisfied that it is the only way to secure that justice is done in the case
of a particular expedited appeal, order that the appeal is to be continued as
an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal and accordingly is to be transferred to
that Tribunal.

23.1.82A.6

In this section, “ priority removal notice ” and “ PRN cut-off date ” have the
same meanings as in section 20 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

23.2

In section 13(8) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (decisions
excluded from right to appeal to the Court of Appeal), after paragraph (b)
insert—

23.2.bza

any decision of the Upper Tribunal on an expedited appeal within the meaning
given by section 82A(3) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002
(expedited appeal against refusal of protection claim or human rights claim),

.

23.3

Schedule 3 makes amendments consequential on this section.

##### Expedited appeals: joining of related appeals

24

24.1

For the purposes of this section, an “expedited section 82 appeal” is an
expedited appeal within the meaning of section 82A of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (expedited appeals for claims brought on or
after PRN cut-off date).

24.2

For the purposes of this section, a “related appeal” is an appeal under any of
the following—

24.2.a

section 82(1) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (appeals in
respect of protection and human rights claims), other than one which is an
expedited section 82 appeal;

24.2.b

section 40A of the British Nationality Act 1981 (appeal against deprivation of
citizenship);

24.2.c

the Immigration (Citizens’ Rights Appeals) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I.
2020/61 ) (appeal rights in respect of EU citizens’ rights immigration
decisions etc);

24.2.d

regulation 36 of the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2016 (
S.I. 2016/1052 ) (appeals against EEA decisions) as it continues to have
effect following its revocation.

24.3

If a person brings an expedited section 82 appeal at a time when a related
appeal brought by that person is pending before the First-tier Tribunal, the
related appeal is, from that time, to be continued as an appeal to the Upper
Tribunal and accordingly is to be transferred to the Upper Tribunal.

24.4

If an expedited section 82 appeal brought by a person is pending, any right
that the person would otherwise have to bring a related appeal to the First-
tier Tribunal is instead a right to bring it to the Upper Tribunal.

24.5

A related appeal within subsection  (3)  or brought to the Upper Tribunal as
mentioned in  (4)  is referred to in this section as an “ expedited related
appeal ”.

24.6

Tribunal Procedure Rules must make provision with a view to securing that the
Upper Tribunal consolidates an expedited related appeal and the expedited
section 82 appeal concerned or hears them together (and see section 82A(4) of
the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002).

24.7

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that the Upper Tribunal may, if it is
satisfied that it is the only way to secure that justice is done in the case
of a particular expedited related appeal, order that the appeal is to be
continued as an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal and accordingly is to be
transferred to that Tribunal.

24.8

For the purposes of this section, an appeal is “pending”—

24.8.a

in the case of an appeal under section 82 of the Nationality, Immigration and
Asylum Act 2002 (including an expedited section 82 appeal), if it is pending
within the meaning of section 104 of that Act;

24.8.b

in the case of an appeal under section 40A of the British Nationality Act
1981, during the period—

24.8.b.i

beginning when it is instituted, and

24.8.b.ii

ending when it is finally determined or withdrawn;

24.8.c

in the case of an appeal under the Immigration (Citizens’ Rights Appeals) (EU
Exit) Regulations 2020, if it is pending within the meaning of regulation 13
of those Regulations;

24.8.d

in the case of an appeal under the regulation 36 of the Immigration (European
Economic Area) Regulations 2016, if it is pending within the meaning of Part 6
of those Regulations (see regulation 35).

24.9

In section 13(8) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (decisions
excluded from right to appeal to the Court of Appeal), after paragraph (bza)
(inserted by section 22) insert—

24.9.bzb

any decision of the Upper Tribunal on an expedited related appeal within the
meaning given by section 24 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (expedited
appeals against refusal of protection claim or human rights claim: joining of
related appeals),

.

##### Civil legal services for recipients of priority removal notices

25

25.1

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of
Offenders Act 2012 (civil legal services), after paragraph 31 (immigration:
accommodation for asylum-seekers etc) insert—

########### Immigration: recipients of priority removal notices

25.1.31ZA

25.1.31ZA.1

Civil legal services provided, to an individual who has received a priority
removal notice, in relation to—

25.1.31ZA.1.a

the priority removal notice;

25.1.31ZA.1.b

the individual’s immigration status;

25.1.31ZA.1.c

the lawfulness of the individual’s removal from the United Kingdom;

25.1.31ZA.1.d

immigration detention of the kinds mentioned in paragraph 25(1).

############## Condition applying to services described in sub-paragraph (1): overall time limit

25.1.31ZA.2

Civil legal services described in sub-paragraph (1) may be provided for up to
(but no more than) 7 hours.

25.1.31ZA.3

If a person who has been provided with civil legal services described in sub-
paragraph (1) subsequently receives a further priority removal notice, sub-
paragraph (2) applies again (so that time spent in providing services
following receipt of the earlier notice does not count towards the new limit).

############## General exclusions

25.1.31ZA.4

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject to the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule.

############## Specific exclusions

25.1.31ZA.5

The services described in sub-paragraph (1) do not include—

25.1.31ZA.5.a

advocacy;

25.1.31ZA.5.b

attendance at an interview conducted on behalf of the Secretary of State with
a view to reaching a decision on a claim in respect of the rights mentioned in
paragraph 30(1), except where regulations provide otherwise;

25.1.31ZA.5.c

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of making a reasonable grounds
decision or a conclusive grounds decision;

25.1.31ZA.5.d

services provided in relation to—

25.1.31ZA.5.d.i

any private law rights the individual may have (such as rights under
employment law or the law of tort), or

25.1.31ZA.5.d.ii

any claim for damages in relation to unlawful detention.

############## Definition

25.1.31ZA.6

In this paragraph “ priority removal notice ” means a notice under section 20
of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

25.2

In section 9 of that Act (civil legal aid: general cases), after subsection
(2) insert—

25.2.3

The powers conferred by subsection (2)(b) include power to amend paragraph
31ZA of Part 1 of Schedule 1 (immigration: recipients of priority removal
notices) so as to alter the time limit applicable to the provision of services
described in sub-paragraph (1) of that paragraph (whether generally or in
specified cases or circumstances).

25.2.4

The Lord Chancellor may by order make provision as to the operation of any
overall time limit applicable to the provision of services described in
paragraph 31ZA(1), including in particular—

25.2.4.a

provision for determining the time available (not exceeding the overall time
limit) for the provision of such services in any individual’s case, or

25.2.4.b

provision as to the use that may, or must, be made of some or all of the time
available.

25.3

In regulation 11(9) of the Civil Legal Aid (Merits Criteria) Regulations 2013
( S.I. 2013/104 ) (qualifying for civil legal services: cases in which merits
criteria do not apply), at the end insert

, or

25.3.e

in relation to any matter described in paragraph 31ZA of Schedule 1 to the Act
(immigration: recipients of priority removal notices).

25.4

In regulation 5(1) of the Civil Legal Aid (Financial Resources and Payment for
Services) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/480 ) (exceptions from requirement to
make a determination in respect of an individual’s financial resources), omit
the “and” at the end of paragraph (ka) and, after paragraph (l), insert—

25.4.m

civil legal services described in paragraph 31ZA of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Act (immigration: recipients of priority removal notices).

#### Late evidence

##### Late provision of evidence in asylum or human rights claim: weight

26

26.1

This section applies where—

26.1.a

evidence is provided late by a claimant in relation to an asylum claim or a
human rights claim, and

26.1.b

the evidence falls to be considered by a deciding authority for the purpose of
determining—

26.1.b.i

the claim, or

26.1.b.ii

where a decision in respect of the claim is the subject of a relevant appeal,
the appeal.

26.2

Unless there are good reasons why the evidence was provided late, the deciding
authority must, in considering it, have regard to the principle that minimal
weight should be given to the evidence.

26.3

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), evidence is provided “late” by a
claimant if it is within subsection  (4)  or  (5) .

26.4

Evidence is within this subsection if—

26.4.a

it is provided pursuant to an evidence notice served on the claimant under
section 18(1), and

26.4.b

it is provided on or after the date specified in the notice.

26.5

Evidence is within this subsection if—

26.5.a

it is provided pursuant to a priority removal notice served on the claimant
under section 20 in support of the matters mentioned in subsection (3)(a)(i)
of that section (reasons and grounds for application), and

26.5.b

it is provided on or after the PRN cut-off date.

26.6

The reference in subsection (1)(b)(i) to determining a claim includes a
reference to determining—

26.6.a

whether to certify the claim under section 94(1) of the 2002 Act (unfounded
claims);

26.6.b

whether to accept or reject further submissions made by the claimant for the
purposes of the immigration rules.

26.7

In this section—

      “ the 2002 Act ” means the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002;
“ asylum claim ” has the meaning given by section 113(1) of the 2002 Act;
“ deciding authority ” means—         an immigration officer,           the
Secretary of State,           the First-tier Tribunal,           the Upper
Tribunal in the circumstances described in subsection (8), or           the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission;                 “ PRN cut-off date ”
has the same meaning as in section 20;           “ relevant appeal ” means an
appeal under—         section 82 of the 2002 Act, or           section 2 of
the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997.

26.8

The circumstances are when the Upper Tribunal is acting—

26.8.a

under section 12(2)(b)(ii) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007
(Upper Tribunal re-making First-tier Tribunal decision on finding of error of
law), or

26.8.b

in relation to—

26.8.b.i

an expedited appeal within the meaning of section 82A of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, or

26.8.b.ii

an expedited related appeal within the meaning of section 24 that involves an
asylum claim or a human rights claim.

#### Appeals

##### Accelerated detained appeals

27

27.1

In this section “ accelerated detained appeal ” means a relevant appeal (see
subsection  (6) ) brought—

27.1.a

by a person who—

27.1.a.i

was detained under a relevant detention provision (see subsection  (7) ) at
the time at which they were given notice of the decision which is the subject
of the appeal, and

27.1.a.ii

remains in detention under a relevant detention provision, and

27.1.b

against a decision that—

27.1.b.i

is of a description prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State,
and

27.1.b.ii

when made, was certified by the Secretary of State under this section.

27.2

The Secretary of State may only certify a decision under this section if the
Secretary of State considers that any relevant appeal brought in relation to
the decision would likely be disposed of expeditiously.

27.3

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that the following time limits apply in
relation to an accelerated detained appeal—

27.3.a

any notice of appeal must be given to the First-tier Tribunal not later than 5
working days after the date on which the appellant was given notice of the
decision against which the appeal is brought;

27.3.b

the First-tier Tribunal must make a decision on the appeal, and give notice of
that decision to the parties, not later than 25 working days after the date on
which the appellant gave notice of appeal to the tribunal;

27.3.c

any application (whether to the First-tier Tribunal or the Upper Tribunal) for
permission to appeal to the Upper Tribunal must be determined by the tribunal
concerned not later than 20 working days after the date on which the applicant
was given notice of the First-tier Tribunal’s decision.

27.4

A relevant appeal ceases to be an accelerated detained appeal on the appellant
being released from detention under any relevant detention provision.

27.5

Tribunal Procedure Rules must secure that the First-tier Tribunal or (as the
case may be) the Upper Tribunal may, if it is satisfied that it is the only
way to secure that justice is done in a particular case, order that a relevant
appeal is to cease to be an accelerated detained appeal.

27.6

For the purposes of this section, a “relevant appeal” is an appeal to the
First-tier Tribunal under any of the following—

27.6.a

section 82(1) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (appeals in
respect of protection and human rights claims);

27.6.b

section 40A of the British Nationality Act 1981 (appeal against deprivation of
citizenship);

27.6.c

the Immigration (Citizens’ Rights Appeals) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I.
2020/61 ) (appeal rights in respect of EU citizens’ rights immigration
decisions etc);

27.6.d

regulation 36 of the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2016 (
S.I. 2016/1052 ) (appeals against EEA decisions) as it continues to have
effect following its revocation.

27.7

For the purposes of this section, a “relevant detention provision” is any of
the following—

27.7.a

paragraph 16(1), (1A) or (2) of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971
(detention of persons liable to examination or removal);

27.7.b

paragraph 2(1), (2) or (3) of Schedule 3 to that Act (detention pending
deportation);

27.7.c

section 62 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (detention of
persons liable to examination or removal);

27.7.d

section 36(1) of the UK Borders Act 2007 (detention pending deportation).

27.8

In this section “ working day ” means any day except—

27.8.a

a Saturday or Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or 26 to 31 December, and

27.8.b

any day that is a bank holiday under section 1 of the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971 in the part of the United Kingdom where the appellant
concerned is detained.

27.9

Regulations under this section are subject to negative resolution procedure.

##### Claims certified as clearly unfounded: removal of right of appeal

28

28.1

The Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 is amended in accordance with
subsections (2) and (3).

28.2

In section 92 (place from which an appeal may be brought or continued)—

28.2.a

in each of subsections (2)(a) and (3)(a), for “94(1) or (7) (claim clearly
unfounded or removal to a safe third country)” substitute  “94(7) (removal to
a safe country)” ;

28.2.b

in each of subsections (6) and (8), for “94(1) or (7)” substitute  “94(7)” .

28.3

In section 94 (appeal from within the United Kingdom: unfounded human rights
or protection claim)—

28.3.a

after subsection (3) insert—

28.3.a.3A

A person may not bring an appeal under section 82 against a decision if the
claim to which the decision relates has been certified under subsection (1).

;

28.3.b

in subsection (4), for “Those States” substitute  “The States” ;

28.3.c

for the heading substitute  “Certification of human rights or protection
claims as unfounded or removal to safe country” .

28.4

The amendments made by this section do not apply in relation to a protection
claim or human rights claim that was certified by the Secretary of State under
section 94(1) before the coming into force of this section.

#### Removal to safe third country

##### Removal of asylum seeker to safe country

29

Schedule 4 makes amendments to—

29.a

section 77 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (no removal
while claim for asylum pending), and

29.b

Schedule 3 to the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004 (removal of asylum seeker to safe country).

#### Interpretation of Refugee Convention

##### Refugee Convention: general

30

30.1

The following sections apply for the purposes of the determination by any
person, court or tribunal whether a person (referred to in those sections as
an “asylum seeker”) is a refugee within the meaning of Article 1(A)(2) of the
Refugee Convention—

30.1.a

section 31 (persecution);

30.1.b

section 32 (well-founded fear);

30.1.c

section 33 (reasons for persecution);

30.1.d

section 34 (protection from persecution);

30.1.e

section 35 (internal relocation).

30.2

Section 36 applies for the purposes of the determination by any person, court
or tribunal whether the provisions of the Refugee Convention do not apply to a
person as a result of Article 1(F) of that Convention (disapplication of
Convention to serious criminals etc).

30.3

Section 37 applies for the purposes of the determination by any person, court
or tribunal whether Article 31(1) of the Refugee Convention (immunity from
certain penalties) applies in relation to a person who is a refugee within the
meaning of Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention.

30.4

The Refugee or Person in Need of International Protection (Qualification)
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/2525 ) are revoked.

30.5

Subsections (1) and (2), and sections 31 to 36, apply only in relation to a
determination relating to a claim for asylum where the claim was made on or
after the day on which this section comes into force.

30.6

For the purposes of subsection (5), a claim for asylum includes a claim, in
any form or to any person, which falls to be determined as mentioned in
subsection (1).

##### Article 1(A)(2): persecution

31

31.1

For the purposes of Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention, persecution can
be committed by any of the following (referred to in this Part as “ actors of
persecution ”)—

31.1.a

the State,

31.1.b

any party or organisation controlling the State or a substantial part of the
territory of the State, or

31.1.c

any non-State actor, if it can be demonstrated that the actors mentioned in
paragraphs (a) and (b), including any international organisation, are unable
or unwilling to provide reasonable protection against persecution.

31.2

For the purposes of that Article, the persecution must be—

31.2.a

sufficiently serious by its nature or repetition as to constitute a severe
violation of a basic human right, in particular a right from which derogation
cannot be made under Article 15 of the Human Rights Convention, or

31.2.b

an accumulation of various measures, including a violation of a human right,
which is sufficiently severe as to affect an individual in a similar manner as
specified in paragraph (a).

31.3

The persecution may, for example, take the form of—

31.3.a

an act of physical or mental violence, including an act of sexual violence;

31.3.b

a legal, administrative, police or judicial measure which in itself is
discriminatory or which is implemented in a discriminatory manner;

31.3.c

prosecution or punishment which is disproportionate or discriminatory;

31.3.d

denial of judicial redress resulting in a disproportionate or discriminatory
punishment;

31.3.e

prosecution or punishment for refusal to perform military service in a
conflict, where performing military service would include crimes or acts as
described in Article 1(F) of the Refugee Convention (on which, see section
36).

##### Article 1(A)(2): well-founded fear

32

32.1

In deciding for the purposes of Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention
whether an asylum seeker’s fear of persecution is well-founded, the following
approach is to be taken.

32.2

The decision-maker must first determine, on the balance of probabilities—

32.2.a

whether the asylum seeker has a characteristic which could cause them to fear
persecution for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a
particular social group or political opinion (or has such a characteristic
attributed to them by an actor of persecution), and

32.2.b

whether the asylum seeker does in fact fear such persecution in their country
of nationality (or in a case where they do not have a nationality, the country
of their former habitual residence) as a result of that characteristic.

(See also section 8 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants,
etc) Act 2004 (asylum claims etc: behaviour damaging to claimant’s
credibility).)

32.3

Subsection (4) applies if the decision-maker finds that—

32.3.a

the asylum seeker has a characteristic mentioned in subsection (2)(a) (or has
such a characteristic attributed to them), and

32.3.b

the asylum seeker fears persecution as mentioned in subsection (2)(b).

32.4

The decision-maker must determine whether there is a reasonable likelihood
that, if the asylum seeker were returned to their country of nationality (or
in a case where they do not have a nationality, the country of their former
habitual residence)—

32.4.a

they would be persecuted as a result of the characteristic mentioned in
subsection (2)(a), and

32.4.b

they would not be protected as mentioned in section 34.

32.5

The determination under subsection (4) must also include a consideration of
the matter mentioned in section 35 (internal relocation).

##### Article 1(A)(2): reasons for persecution

33

33.1

For the purposes of Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention—

33.1.a

the concept of race may include consideration of matters such as a person’s
colour, descent or membership of a particular ethnic group;

33.1.b

the concept of religion may include consideration of matters such as—

33.1.b.i

the holding of theistic, non-theistic or atheistic beliefs,

33.1.b.ii

the participation in formal worship in private or public, either alone or in
community with others, or the abstention from such worship,

33.1.b.iii

other religious acts or expressions of view, or

33.1.b.iv

forms of personal or communal conduct based on or mandated by any religious
belief;

33.1.c

the concept of nationality is not confined to citizenship (or lack of
citizenship) but may include consideration of matters such as membership of a
group determined by its cultural, ethnic or linguistic identity, common
geographical or political origins or its relationship with the population of
another State;

33.1.d

the concept of political opinion includes the holding of an opinion, thought
or belief on a matter related to a potential actor of persecution and to its
policies or methods, whether or not the person holding that opinion, thought
or belief has acted upon it.

33.2

A group forms a particular social group for the purposes of Article 1(A)(2) of
the Refugee Convention only if it meets both of the following conditions.

33.3

The first condition is that members of the group share—

33.3.a

an innate characteristic,

33.3.b

a common background that cannot be changed, or

33.3.c

a characteristic or belief that is so fundamental to identity or conscience
that a person should not be forced to renounce it.

33.4

The second condition is that the group has a distinct identity in the relevant
country because it is perceived as being different by the surrounding society.

33.5

A particular social group may include a group based on a common characteristic
of sexual orientation, but for these purposes sexual orientation does not
include acts that are criminal in any part of the United Kingdom.

##### Article 1(A)(2): protection from persecution

34

34.1

For the purposes of Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention, protection from
persecution can be provided by—

34.1.a

the State, or

34.1.b

any party or organisation, including any international organisation,
controlling the State or a substantial part of the territory of the State.

34.2

An asylum seeker is to be taken to be able to avail themselves of protection
from persecution if—

34.2.a

the State, party or organisation mentioned in subsection (1) takes reasonable
steps to prevent the persecution by operating an effective legal system for
the detection, prosecution and punishment of acts constituting persecution,
and

34.2.b

the asylum seeker is able to access the protection.

##### Article 1(A)(2): internal relocation

35

35.1

An asylum seeker is not to be taken to be a refugee for the purposes of
Article 1(A)(2) of the Refugee Convention if—

35.1.a

they would not have a well-founded fear of being persecuted in a part of their
country of nationality (or in a case where they do not have a nationality, the
country of their former habitual residence), and

35.1.b

they can reasonably be expected to travel to and remain in that part of the
country.

35.2

In considering whether an asylum seeker can reasonably be expected to travel
to and remain in a part of a country, a decision-maker—

35.2.a

must have regard to—

35.2.a.i

the general circumstances prevailing in that part of the country, and

35.2.a.ii

the personal circumstances of the asylum seeker;

35.2.b

must disregard any technical obstacles relating to travel to that part of that
country.

##### Article 1(F): disapplication of Convention in case of serious crime etc

36

36.1

A person has committed a crime for the purposes of Article 1(F)(a) or (b) of
the Refugee Convention if they have instigated or otherwise participated in
the commission of the crimes specified in those provisions.

36.2

In Article 1(F)(b), the reference to a serious non-political crime includes a
particularly cruel action, even if it is committed with an allegedly political
objective.

36.3

In that Article, the reference to a crime being committed by a person outside
the country of refuge prior to their admission to that country as a refugee
includes a crime committed by that person at any time up to and including the
day on which they are issued with a relevant biometric immigration document by
the Secretary of State.

36.4

For the purposes of subsection (3), a relevant biometric immigration document
is a document that—

36.4.a

records biometric information (as defined in section 15(1A) of the UK Borders
Act 2007), and

36.4.b

is evidence of leave to remain in the United Kingdom granted to a person as a
result of their refugee status.

##### Article 31(1): immunity from penalties

37

37.1

A refugee is not to be taken to have come to the United Kingdom directly from
a country where their life or freedom was threatened if, in coming from that
country, they stopped in another country outside the United Kingdom, unless
they can show that they could not reasonably be expected to have sought
protection under the Refugee Convention in that country.

37.2

A refugee is not to be taken to have presented themselves without delay to the
authorities unless—

37.2.a

in the case of a person who became a refugee while they were outside the
United Kingdom, they made a claim for asylum as soon as reasonably practicable
after their arrival in the United Kingdom;

37.2.b

in the case of a person who became a refugee while they were in the United
Kingdom—

37.2.b.i

if their presence in the United Kingdom was lawful at that time, they made a
claim for asylum before the time when their presence in the United Kingdom
became unlawful;

37.2.b.ii

if their presence in the United Kingdom was unlawful at that time, they made a
claim for asylum as soon as reasonably practicable after they became aware of
their need for protection under the Refugee Convention.

37.3

For the purposes of subsection (2)(b), a person’s presence in the United
Kingdom is unlawful if they require leave to enter or remain and do not have
it.

37.4

A penalty is not to be taken as having been imposed on account of a refugee’s
illegal entry or presence in the United Kingdom where the penalty relates to
anything done by the refugee in the course of an attempt to leave the United
Kingdom.

37.5

In section 31 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (defences based on
Art.31(1) of the Refugee Convention)—

37.5.a

in subsection (2), for “have expected to be given” substitute  “be expected to
have sought” ;

37.5.b

after subsection (4) insert—

37.5.b.4A

But this section does not apply to an offence committed by a refugee in the
course of an attempt to leave the United Kingdom.

37.6

In this section—

      “ claim for asylum ” means a claim that it would be contrary to the
United Kingdom’s obligations under the Refugee Convention for the claimant to
be removed from, or required to leave, the United Kingdom;           “ country
” includes any territory;           “ refugee ” has the same meaning as in the
Refugee Convention.

##### Article 33(2): particularly serious crime

38

38.1

Section 72 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (serious
criminal) is amended as follows.

38.2

In subsection (1), for “protection” substitute  “prohibition of expulsion or
return” .

38.3

In subsection (2)—

38.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

38.3.a.i

for “shall be presumed to have been” substitute  “is” ;

38.3.a.ii

omit “and to constitute a danger to the community of the United Kingdom”;

38.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “two years” substitute  “12 months” .

38.4

In subsection (3)—

38.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a)—

38.4.a.i

for “shall be presumed to have been” substitute  “is” ;

38.4.a.ii

omit “and to constitute a danger to the community of the United Kingdom”;

38.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “two years” substitute  “12 months” ;

38.4.c

in paragraph (c), for “two years” substitute  “12 months” .

38.5

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a)—

38.5.a

for “shall be presumed to have been” substitute  “is” ;

38.5.b

omit “and to constitute a danger to the community of the United Kingdom”.

38.6

After subsection (5) insert—

38.6.5A

A person convicted by a final judgment of a particularly serious crime
(whether within or outside the United Kingdom) is to be presumed to constitute
a danger to the community of the United Kingdom.

38.7

In subsection (6), for “(2), (3) or (4)” substitute  “(5A)” .

38.8

In subsection (7), for “(2), (3) or (4)” substitute  “(5A)” .

38.9

In subsection (8), for “mentioned in subsection (6)” substitute  “under
subsection (5A)” .

38.10

In subsection (9)(b), for “presumptions under subsection (2), (3) or (4)
apply” substitute  “a presumption under subsection (5A) applies” .

38.11

In subsection (10)(b), for “presumptions under subsections (2), (3) or (4)
apply” substitute  “a presumption under subsection (5A) applies” .

38.12

In subsection (11)(b)—

38.12.a

in the opening words, for “two years” substitute  “12 months” ;

38.12.b

in sub-paragraph (ia), for “two years”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“12 months” ;

38.12.c

in sub-paragraph (iii), for “two years” substitute  “12 months” .

38.13

The amendments made by this section apply only in relation to a person
convicted on or after the date on which this section comes into force.

#### Interpretation

##### Interpretation of Part 2

39

In this Part—

      “ human rights claim ” has the meaning given by section 113 of the
Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002;           the “ Human Rights
Convention ” means the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms agreed by the Council of Europe at Rome on 4 November
1950 as it has effect for the time being in relation to the United Kingdom;
“ immigration officer ” means a person appointed by the Secretary of State as
an immigration officer under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act
1971;           “ immigration rules ” means rules under section 3(2) of the
Immigration Act 1971;           the “ Refugee Convention ” means the
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951
and its Protocol;           “ protection claim ” has the meaning given by
section 82(2) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002.

### Immigration Control

#### Immigration offences and penalties

##### Illegal entry and similar offences

40

40.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (7).

40.2

In section 24 (illegal entry and similar offences), before subsection (1)
insert—

40.2.A1

A person who knowingly enters the United Kingdom in breach of a deportation
order commits an offence.

40.2.B1

A person who—

40.2.B1.a

requires leave to enter the United Kingdom under this Act, and

40.2.B1.b

knowingly enters the United Kingdom without such leave,

commits an offence.

40.2.C1

A person who—

40.2.C1.a

has only a limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, and

40.2.C1.b

knowingly remains beyond the time limited by the leave,

commits an offence.

40.2.D1

A person who—

40.2.D1.a

requires entry clearance under the immigration rules, and

40.2.D1.b

knowingly arrives in the United Kingdom without a valid entry clearance,

commits an offence.

40.2.E1

A person who—

40.2.E1.a

is required under immigration rules not to travel to the United Kingdom
without an ETA that is valid for the person’s journey to the United Kingdom,
and

40.2.E1.b

knowingly arrives in the United Kingdom without such an ETA,

commits an offence.

40.2.F1

A person who commits an offence under any of subsections  (A1)  to  (E1)  is
liable—

40.2.F1.a

on summary conviction in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 12 months or a fine (or both);

40.2.F1.b

on summary conviction in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2.F1.c

on summary conviction in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both);

40.2.F1.d

on conviction on indictment—

40.2.F1.d.i

for an offence under subsection  (A1) , to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years or a fine (or both);

40.2.F1.d.ii

for an offence under any of subsections  (B1)  to  (E1) , to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding four years or a fine (or both).

40.2.G1

In relation to an offence committed before paragraph 24(2) of Schedule 22 to
the Sentencing Act 2020 comes into force, the reference in subsection  (F1)(a)
to 12 months is to be read as a reference to six months.

40.3

In that section—

40.3.a

in subsection (1)—

40.3.a.i

omit paragraph (a);

40.3.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for the words from “either” to the end, substitute  “fails
to observe a condition of the leave;” ;

40.3.b

in subsection (1A), for “subsection (1)(b)(i)” substitute  “subsection (C1)” ;

40.3.c

in subsection (3), for “subsection (1)(a) and (c)” substitute  “subsections
(A1), (B1), (D1), (E1) and (1)(c)” ;

40.3.d

in subsection (4)—

40.3.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “against subsection (1)(a)” substitute
“under subsection (B1)” ;

40.3.d.ii

in paragraph (b), omit the words from the first “if” to the end.

40.3.e

after subsection (4) insert—

40.3.e.5

In proceedings for an offence under subsection (D1) above of arriving in the
United Kingdom without a valid entry clearance—

40.3.e.5.a

any document attached to a passport or other travel document purporting to
have been issued by the Secretary of State for the purposes of providing
evidence of entry clearance for a particular period is to be presumed to have
been duly so issued unless the contrary is proved;

40.3.e.5.b

proof that a person had a valid entry clearance is to lie on the defence.

40.4

In section 25 (assisting unlawful immigration), in subsection (2)(a), after
“enter” insert  “or arrive in” .

40.5

In section 28B (search and arrest by warrant), in subsection (5), for
“24(1)(a), (b)” substitute  “24(A1), (B1), (C1), (D1), (E1) or (1)(b)” .

40.6

In section 28D (entry and search of premises), in subsection (4), for
“24(1)(a), (b)” substitute  “24(A1), (B1), (C1), (D1), (E1) or (1)(b)” .

40.7

In section 28FA (search for personnel records: warrant unnecessary), in
subsection (1)—

40.7.a

in paragraph (a), for “24(1)” substitute  “24” ;

40.7.b

in paragraph (c), for “24(1)” substitute  “24” .

40.8

In the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002—

40.8.a

in section 129(1) (duty on local authority to disclose information on
suspected immigration offences), in paragraph (a), for “24(1)(a), (b), (c),
(e)” substitute  “24(A1), (B1), (C1), (D1), (E1) or (1)(b), (c)” ;

40.8.b

in section 134(1) (duty on employer to disclose information on suspected
immigration offences), in paragraph (a), for “24(1)(a), (b), (c), (e)”
substitute  “24(A1), (B1), (C1), (D1), (E1) or (1)(b), (c)” .

40.9

In section 133(7) of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008
(conditions), for “any provision of section 24(1)” substitute  “section 24” .

##### Assisting unlawful immigration or asylum seeker

41

41.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended as follows.

41.2

In section 25(6)(a) (assisting unlawful immigration to member State or the
United Kingdom: penalties) for “imprisonment for a term not exceeding 14
years” substitute  “imprisonment for life” .

41.3

In section 25A(1)(a) (helping asylum seeker to enter United Kingdom) omit “and
for gain”.

41.4

Before section 25C insert—

########### Facilitation offences: application to rescuers

41.4.25BA

41.4.25BA.1

A person does not commit a facilitation offence if the act of facilitation was
an act done by or on behalf of, or co-ordinated by—

41.4.25BA.1.a

Her Majesty’s Coastguard, or

41.4.25BA.1.b

an overseas maritime search and rescue authority exercising similar functions
to those of Her Majesty’s Coastguard.

41.4.25BA.2

In proceedings for a facilitation offence, it is a defence for the person
charged with the offence to show that—

41.4.25BA.2.a

the assisted individual had been in danger or distress at sea, and

41.4.25BA.2.b

the act of facilitation was an act of providing assistance to the individual
at any time between—

41.4.25BA.2.b.i

the time when the assisted individual was first in danger or distress at sea,
and

41.4.25BA.2.b.ii

the time when the assisted individual was delivered to a place of safety on
land.

41.4.25BA.3

For the purposes of subsection (2), the following are not to be treated as an
act of providing assistance—

41.4.25BA.3.a

the act of delivering the assisted individual to the United Kingdom in
circumstances where—

41.4.25BA.3.a.i

the United Kingdom was not the nearest place of safety on land to which the
assisted individual could have been delivered, and

41.4.25BA.3.a.ii

the person charged with the offence did not have a good reason for delivering
the assisted individual to the United Kingdom instead of to a nearer place of
safety on land;

41.4.25BA.3.b

the act of steering a ship in circumstances where the person charged with the
offence was on the same ship as the assisted individual at the time when the
individual was first in danger or distress at sea.

41.4.25BA.4

A person is taken to have shown a fact mentioned in subsection (2) if—

41.4.25BA.4.a

sufficient evidence of the fact is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

41.4.25BA.4.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

41.4.25BA.5

In this section—

      “act of facilitation”—         in relation to an offence under section
25 (assisting unlawful immigration), means the act mentioned in subsection
(1)(a) of that section;           in relation to an offence under section 25A
(helping asylum-seeker to enter the UK), means the act of facilitating the
arrival (or attempted arrival) in, or entry (or attempted entry) into, the
United Kingdom of an individual, as mentioned in subsection (1)(a) of that
section;           in relation to an offence under section 25B(1)
(facilitating breach of deportation order), means the act mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) of that section;           in relation to an offence under
section 25B(3) (assisting entry to UK in breach of an exclusion order), means
the act mentioned in subsection (3)(a) of that section;
“assisted individual”—         in relation to an offence under section 25,
means the individual whose breach (or attempted breach) of immigration law is
facilitated by the act of facilitation;           in relation to an offence
under section 25A, means the individual whose arrival (or attempted arrival)
in, or entry (or attempted entry) into, the United Kingdom is facilitated by
the act of facilitation;           in relation to an offence under section
25B(1), means the individual whose breach (or attempted breach) of a
deportation order is facilitated by the act of facilitation;           in
relation to an offence under section 25B(3), means the individual who is
assisted to arrive in, enter or remain (or to attempt to arrive in, enter or
remain) in the United Kingdom by the act of facilitation;                 “
facilitation offence ” means—         an offence under section 25 (assisting
unlawful immigration),           an offence under section 25A (helping asylum-
seeker to enter the United Kingdom), or           an offence under section 25B
(assisting entry to the United Kingdom in breach of deportation or exclusion
order) to the extent that the section continues to apply by virtue of
regulation 5(7) of the Immigration and Social Security Co-ordination (EU
Withdrawal) Act 2020 (Consequential, Saving, Transitional and Transitory
Provisions) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1309 );                 “
ship ” includes—         every description of vessel (including a hovercraft),
and           any other structure (whether with or without means of
propulsion) constructed or used to carry persons, goods, plant or machinery by
water.

########### Facilitation offences: defences relating to stowaways

41.4.25BB

41.4.25BB.1

In proceedings for a facilitation offence brought against a master of a ship,
it is a defence for the master to show—

41.4.25BB.1.a

that the assisted individual was a stowaway when the act of facilitation took
place, and

41.4.25BB.1.b

that the master, or a person acting on the master’s behalf, reported the
presence of the assisted individual on the ship to the Secretary of State or
an immigration officer—

41.4.25BB.1.b.i

in a case where the ship was scheduled to go to the United Kingdom, as soon as
reasonably practicable after the time when the ship’s next scheduled port of
call became a port in the United Kingdom, or

41.4.25BB.1.b.ii

in a case where the ship was not scheduled to go to the United Kingdom but the
master of the ship decided that the ship needed to go to the United Kingdom
(whether for reasons relating to the presence of the assisted individual on
board or for other reasons), as soon as reasonably practicable after the
master made that decision.

41.4.25BB.2

In proceedings for a facilitation offence, it is a defence for the person
charged with the offence to show—

41.4.25BB.2.a

that the assisted individual was a stowaway when the act of facilitation took
place,

41.4.25BB.2.b

that they were acting to ensure the security, general health, welfare or
safety of the assisted individual, and

41.4.25BB.2.c

that they had reported the presence of the assisted individual to the master
of the ship as soon as reasonably practicable.

41.4.25BB.3

A person is taken to have shown a fact mentioned in subsection (1) or (2) if—

41.4.25BB.3.a

sufficient evidence of the fact is adduced to raise an issue with respect to
it, and

41.4.25BB.3.b

the contrary is not proved beyond reasonable doubt.

41.4.25BB.4

For the purposes of this section, an individual is a stowaway on a ship if—

41.4.25BB.4.a

they boarded the ship without the knowledge of the master of the ship, and

41.4.25BB.4.b

the master was not aware of their presence on the ship when the ship departed
from the port where the individual boarded.

41.4.25BB.5

But an individual ceases to be a stowaway if, after the master of the ship has
become aware of their presence on the ship, the individual is given permission
to leave the ship by the immigration authorities of a country that the ship
arrives at (whether or not they do in fact leave the ship there).

41.4.25BB.6

In this section, “ act of facilitation ”, “ assisted individual ”, “
facilitation offence ” and “ ship ” have the same meanings as in section 25BA.

##### Penalty for failure to secure goods vehicle

42

Schedule 5 amends the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to make provision for
the imposition of a penalty for failure adequately to secure a goods vehicle
against unauthorised access and other related matters.

#### Working in United Kingdom waters: arrival and entry

##### Working in United Kingdom waters: arrival and entry

43

43.1

After section 11 of the Immigration Act 1971 (construction of references to
entry etc) insert—

########### Working in United Kingdom waters

43.1.11A

43.1.11A.1

An “offshore worker” is a person who arrives in United Kingdom waters—

43.1.11A.1.a

for the purpose of undertaking work in those waters, and

43.1.11A.1.b

without first entering the United Kingdom (see, in particular, section 11(1)).

But see subsection  (6) .

43.1.11A.2

An offshore worker arrives in the United Kingdom for the purposes of this Act
when they arrive in United Kingdom waters as mentioned in subsection (1)(a).

43.1.11A.3

An offshore worker enters the United Kingdom for the purposes of this Act when
they commence working in United Kingdom waters.

43.1.11A.4

Any reference in, or in a provision made under, the Immigration Acts to a
person arriving in or entering the United Kingdom, however expressed, is to be
read as including a reference to an offshore worker arriving in or entering
the United Kingdom as provided for in subsection (2) or (3).

43.1.11A.5

References in this section to work, or to a person working, are to be read in
accordance with section 24B(10).

43.1.11A.6

A person is not an offshore worker if they arrive in United Kingdom waters
while working as a member of the crew of a ship that is—

43.1.11A.6.a

exercising the right of innocent passage through the territorial sea or the
right of transit passage through straits used for international navigation, or

43.1.11A.6.b

passing through United Kingdom waters from non-UK waters to a place in the
United Kingdom or vice versa.

43.1.11A.7

For the purposes of any provision of, or made under, the Immigration Acts, a
person working in United Kingdom waters who, in connection with that work,
temporarily enters non-UK waters is not to be treated by virtue of doing so as
leaving, or being outside, the United Kingdom.

43.1.11A.8

In this section—

      “ non-UK waters ” means the sea beyond the seaward limits of the
territorial sea;           “right of innocent passage”, “right of transit
passage” and “straits used for international navigation” are to be read in
accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 1982 (Cmnd
8941) and any modifications of that Convention agreed after the passing of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 that have entered into force in relation to
the United Kingdom;           “ the territorial sea ” means the territorial
sea adjacent to the United Kingdom;           “ United Kingdom waters ” means
the sea and other waters within the seaward limits of the territorial sea.

########### Offshore workers: requirements to notify arrival and entry dates etc

43.1.11B

43.1.11B.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for and in connection
with requiring—

43.1.11B.1.a

an offshore worker, or

43.1.11B.1.b

if an offshore worker has one, their sponsor;

to give notice to the Secretary of State or an immigration officer of the
dates on which the offshore worker arrives in, enters and leaves the United
Kingdom.

43.1.11B.2

The regulations may make provision for the failure of an offshore worker to
comply with a requirement imposed under the regulations to be a ground for—

43.1.11B.2.a

the cancellation or variation of their leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom;

43.1.11B.2.b

refusing them leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

43.1.11B.3

The failure of an offshore worker’s sponsor to comply with a requirement
imposed under the regulations may be taken into account by the Secretary of
State when operating immigration skills arrangements made with the sponsor.

43.1.11B.4

Regulations under this section—

43.1.11B.4.a

are to be made by statutory instrument;

43.1.11B.4.b

may make different provision for different cases;

43.1.11B.4.c

may make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

43.1.11B.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

43.1.11B.6

For the purposes of this section—

43.1.11B.6.a

“ offshore worker ” has the same meaning as in section 11A;

43.1.11B.6.b

a person is an offshore worker’s “sponsor” if they have made immigration
skills arrangements with the Secretary of State in relation to the offshore
worker;

43.1.11B.6.c

“ immigration skills arrangements ” has the meaning given by section 70A(2) of
the Immigration Act 2014.

43.2

Schedule 6 makes consequential and related amendments.

#### Enforcement

##### Power to search container unloaded from ship or aircraft

44

44.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended as follows.

44.2

In sub-paragraph (5) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 (powers to search ship or
aircraft etc), after “vehicle” insert  “or container” .

44.3

After that sub-paragraph insert—

44.3.6

For the purposes of searching a container under sub-paragraph (5), an
immigration officer may direct any person who has control of the container to
deliver the container to a place specified by the immigration officer.

44.3.7

In this paragraph, “ container ” has the same meaning as in the Customs and
Excise Management Act 1979 (see section 1(1) of that Act).

44.4

In section 26(1) (general offences in connection with administration of Act),
after paragraph (g) insert—

44.4.h

if, without reasonable excuse, the person fails to comply with a direction
under paragraph 1(6) of Schedule 2 (direction to move a container for purposes
of a search).

##### Maritime enforcement

45

Schedule 7 contains amendments to Part 3A of the Immigration Act 1971
(maritime enforcement).

#### Removals

##### Removals: notice requirements

46

46.1

Section 10 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (removal of persons
unlawfully in the United Kingdom) is amended as set out in subsections (2) to
(6).

46.2

In subsection (1)—

46.2.a

for “may be removed” substitute  “is liable to removal” ;

46.2.b

omit “under the authority of the Secretary of State or an immigration
officer”.

46.3

For subsection (2) substitute—

46.3.2

Where a person (“ P ”) is liable to removal, or has been removed, from the
United Kingdom under this section, a member of P’s family who meets the
following three conditions is also liable to removal from the United Kingdom,
provided that the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the
family member written notice of the fact that they are liable to removal.

46.4

After subsection (6) insert—

46.4.6A

A person who is liable to removal from the United Kingdom under this section
may be removed only under the authority of the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer and in accordance with sections 10A to 10E.

46.5

In subsection (7), for “subsection (1) or (2)” substitute  “this section” .

46.6

In subsection (10)—

46.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “this section” ;

46.6.b

in paragraph (b), at the end insert  “or sections 10A to 10E” .

46.7

After that section insert—

########### Removal: general notice requirements

46.7.10A

46.7.10A.1

This section applies to a person who is liable to removal under section 10;
but see sections 10C to 10E for the circumstances in which such a person may
be removed otherwise than in accordance with this section.

46.7.10A.2

The person may be removed if—

46.7.10A.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person—

46.7.10A.2.a.i

a notice of intention to remove (see subsection (3)), and

46.7.10A.2.a.ii

a notice of departure details (see subsection (4)), and

46.7.10A.2.b

any notice period has expired.

46.7.10A.3

A notice of intention to remove is a written notice which—

46.7.10A.3.a

states that the person is to be removed,

46.7.10A.3.b

sets out the notice period, (see subsection  (7) ), and

46.7.10A.3.c

states the destination to which the person is to be removed.

46.7.10A.4

A notice of departure details under this section is a written notice which—

46.7.10A.4.a

states the date on which the person is to be removed,

46.7.10A.4.b

states the destination to which the person is to be removed and any stops that
are expected to be made on the way to that destination, and

46.7.10A.4.c

if subsection (6) applies, sets out the notice period (see subsection (7)).

46.7.10A.5

The notice of intention to remove and the notice of departure details may be
combined.

46.7.10A.6

This subsection applies if the notice of departure details states, under
subsection (4)(b)—

46.7.10A.6.a

a destination which is different to the destination stated under subsection
(3)(c) in the notice of intention to remove, or

46.7.10A.6.b

any stops that were not stated in the notice of intention to remove, other
than a stop in—

46.7.10A.6.b.i

the United Kingdom, or

46.7.10A.6.b.ii

a country that is for the time being specified in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the
Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004.

46.7.10A.7

The notice period must be no shorter than the period of five working days
beginning with the day after the day on which the person is given the notice.

46.7.10A.8

At any time before the person is removed, the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may replace a notice of departure details under this
section.

46.7.10A.9

This section is subject to section 10B (failed removals).

46.7.10A.10

In this section “ working day ” means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday,
Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial
Dealings Act 1971 in the part of the United Kingdom where the person is when
they are given the notice.

########### Failed removals

46.7.10B

46.7.10B.1

This section applies where as a result of matters reasonably beyond the
control of the Secretary of State, such as—

46.7.10B.1.a

adverse weather conditions,

46.7.10B.1.b

technical faults or other issues causing delays to transport, or

46.7.10B.1.c

disruption by the person to be removed or others,

a person is not removed from the United Kingdom on the date stated in a notice
of departure details under section 10A (“the original notice”).

46.7.10B.2

The person may be removed from the United Kingdom if—

46.7.10B.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person a notice
of departure details (see subsection (3)), and

46.7.10B.2.b

they are removed before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
date stated in the original notice.

46.7.10B.3

A notice of departure details under this section is a written notice which—

46.7.10B.3.a

states the date on which the person is to be removed, and

46.7.10B.3.b

states the destination to which the person is to be removed and any stops that
are expected to be made on the way to that destination.

46.7.10B.4

But this section does not apply if the notice under subsection (3) states,
under subsection (3)(b)—

46.7.10B.4.a

a destination which is different to the destination stated in the original
notice, or

46.7.10B.4.b

any stops that were not stated in the original notice, other than a stop in—

46.7.10B.4.b.i

the United Kingdom, or

46.7.10B.4.b.ii

a country that is for the time being specified in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the
Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004.

46.7.10B.5

At any time before the person is removed, the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may replace a notice of departure details under this
section.

########### Removal: notice requirements in port cases

46.7.10C

46.7.10C.1

This section applies to a person who is liable to removal under section 10 if
the person was refused leave to enter upon their arrival in the United
Kingdom.

46.7.10C.2

The person may be removed if—

46.7.10C.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person a notice
of departure details under this section which—

46.7.10C.2.a.i

states the date on which the person is to be removed, and

46.7.10C.2.a.ii

states the destination to which the person is to be removed and any stops that
are expected to be made on the way to that destination, and

46.7.10C.2.b

the date stated under paragraph (a)(i) is a date before the end of the period
of seven days beginning with the day after the day on which the person was
refused leave to enter.

46.7.10C.3

At any time before the person is removed, the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may replace a notice of departure details under this
section.

########### Removal: PRN recipients

46.7.10D

46.7.10D.1

This section applies to a person who is liable to removal under section 10 and
is a PRN recipient.

46.7.10D.2

If the person does not make a protection claim or a human rights claim before
the PRN cut-off date, the person may be removed from the United Kingdom if—

46.7.10D.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person a notice
of departure details (see subsection (4)), and

46.7.10D.2.b

they are removed before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
day after the PRN cut-off date.

46.7.10D.3

If the PRN recipient makes a protection claim or a human rights claim, the
person may be removed from the United Kingdom if—

46.7.10D.3.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person a notice
of departure details (see subsection (4)),

46.7.10D.3.b

their appeal rights are exhausted, and

46.7.10D.3.c

they are removed before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
day after the date on which their appeal rights are exhausted;

and for the purposes of this subsection, whether a PRN recipient’s appeal
rights are exhausted is to be determined in accordance with section 20(3) of
the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (and see, in particular, section 82A of
the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002).

46.7.10D.4

A notice of departure details under this section is a written notice which—

46.7.10D.4.a

states the date on which the person is to be removed,

46.7.10D.4.b

states the destination to which the person is to be removed and any stops that
are expected to be made on the way to that destination.

46.7.10D.5

But this section does not apply unless the priority removal notice stated—

46.7.10D.5.a

a destination to which the person is to be removed which is the same as the
destination stated in the notice of departure details under subsection (4)(b),
and

46.7.10D.5.b

stops, other than stops falling within subsection (6), that are expected to be
made on the way to that destination which are the same as those stated in the
notice of departure details under subsection (4)(b).

46.7.10D.6

A stop falls within this subsection if it is a stop in—

46.7.10D.6.a

the United Kingdom, or

46.7.10D.6.b

a country that is for the time being specified in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the
Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004.

46.7.10D.7

At any time before the person is removed, the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may replace a notice of departure details under this
section.

46.7.10D.8

For the purposes of this section and section 10E—

      “ priority removal notice ”, “ PRN cut-off date ” and “ PRN recipient ”
have the same meaning as in section 20 of the Nationality and Borders Act
2022;           “ protection claim ” and “ human rights claim ” have the same
meaning as in Part 5 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002.

########### Removal: judicial review

46.7.10E

46.7.10E.1

This section applies to a person (whether or not they are a PRN recipient) who
is liable to removal under section 10 where—

46.7.10E.1.a

the person has made an application for judicial review or (in Scotland) an
application to the supervisory jurisdiction of the Court of Session, relating
to their removal, and

46.7.10E.1.b

a court or tribunal has made a decision the effect of which is that the person
may be removed from the United Kingdom.

46.7.10E.2

The person may be removed from the United Kingdom if—

46.7.10E.2.a

the Secretary of State or an immigration officer has given the person a notice
of departure details (see subsection (3)), and

46.7.10E.2.b

they are removed before the end of the period of 21 days beginning with the
day after the day on which the court or tribunal made the decision mentioned
in subsection (1)(b).

46.7.10E.3

A notice of departure details under this section is a written notice which—

46.7.10E.3.a

states the date on which the person is to be removed,

46.7.10E.3.b

states the destination to which the person is to be removed and any stops that
are expected to be made on the way to that destination.

46.7.10E.4

But this section does not apply unless the person has received a priority
removal notice or a notice of intention to remove under section 10A(3) which
stated—

46.7.10E.4.a

a destination to which the person is to be removed which is the same as the
destination stated in the notice of departure details under subsection (3)(b),
and

46.7.10E.4.b

stops, other than stops falling within subsection (5), that are expected to be
made on the way to that destination which are the same as those stated in the
notice of departure details under subsection (3)(b).

46.7.10E.5

A stop falls within this subsection if it is a stop in—

46.7.10E.5.a

the United Kingdom, or

46.7.10E.5.b

a country that is for the time being specified in Part 2 of Schedule 3 to the
Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004.

46.7.10E.6

At any time before the person is removed, the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer may replace a notice of departure details under this
section.

46.8

In Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act 2016 (immigration bail), in paragraph
3(4) (bail not to be granted to person subject to removal directions without
consent of Secretary of State), in paragraph (b) for “14” substitute  “21” .

##### Prisoners liable to removal from the United Kingdom

47

47.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

47.2

Section 260 (early removal of prisoners liable to removal from the United
Kingdom) is amended as set out in subsections (3) to (8).

47.3

For subsections (1) to (2B) substitute—

47.3.1

Where a fixed-term prisoner is liable to removal from the United Kingdom, the
Secretary of State may remove the prisoner from prison under this section at
any time after the prisoner has served the minimum pre-removal custodial
period (whether or not the Board has directed the prisoner’s release under
this Chapter).

47.3.2

The minimum pre-removal custodial period is the longer of—

47.3.2.a

one half of the requisite custodial period, and

47.3.2.b

the requisite custodial period less one year.

47.4

In subsection (2C), for “Subsections (1) and (2A) do” substitute  “Subsection
(1) does” .

47.5

In subsection (4), for paragraph (b) substitute—

47.5.b

so long as remaining in the United Kingdom, and in the event of a return to
the United Kingdom after removal, is liable to be detained in pursuance of his
sentence.

47.6

After subsection (4) insert—

47.6.4A

Where a person has been removed from prison under this section, a day on which
the person has not spent any part of the day in prison or otherwise detained
in pursuance of their sentence is not, unless the Secretary of State otherwise
directs, to be included—

47.6.4A.a

when determining for the purposes of any provision of this Chapter how much of
their sentence they have (or would have) served, or

47.6.4A.b

when determining for the purposes of section 244ZC(2), 244A(2)(b) or
246A(4)(b) the date of an anniversary of a disposal of a reference of the
person’s case to the Board (so that the anniversary is treated as falling  x
days after the actual anniversary, where  x  is the number of days on which
the person has not spent any part of the day in prison or otherwise detained
in pursuance of their sentence).

47.6.4B

Where—

47.6.4B.a

before a prisoner’s removal from prison under this section their case had been
referred to the Board under section 244ZB(3), 244ZC(2), 244A(2) or 246A(4),
and

47.6.4B.b

the person is removed from the United Kingdom before the Board has disposed of
the reference,

the reference lapses upon the person’s removal from the United Kingdom (and
paragraph 8 of Schedule 19B applies in the event of their return).

47.7

Omit subsection (5).

47.8

In subsection (6), for paragraphs (a) to (c) substitute—

47.8.a

amend the fraction for the time being specified in subsection (2)(a);

47.8.b

amend the time period for the time being specified in subsection (2)(b).

47.9

For section 261 substitute—

########### Removal under section 260 and subsequent return to UK: effect on sentence

47.9.261

Where a person—

47.9.261.a

has been removed from prison under section 260 on or after the day on which
section 47 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 came into force,

47.9.261.b

has been removed from the United Kingdom following that removal from prison,
and

47.9.261.c

returns to the United Kingdom,

this Chapter applies to the person with the modifications set out in Schedule
19B.

47.10

In section 263 (concurrent terms), after subsection (2), insert—

47.10.2A

Where this section applies, nothing in section 260 authorises the Secretary of
State to remove the offender from prison in respect of any of the terms unless
and until that section authorises the Secretary of State to do so in respect
of each of the others.

47.11

After Schedule 19A, insert the Schedule 19B set out in Schedule 8.

#### Immigration bail

##### Matters relevant to decisions relating to immigration bail

48

In paragraph 3(2) of Schedule 10 to the Immigration Act 2016 (matters to be
taken into account in making decision on immigration bail), for the “and” at
the end of paragraph (e) substitute—

48.ea

whether the person has failed without reasonable excuse to cooperate with any
process—

48.ea.i

for determining whether the person requires or should be granted leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom,

48.ea.ii

for determining the period for which the person should be granted such leave
and any conditions to which it should be subject,

48.ea.iii

for determining whether the person’s leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom should be varied, curtailed, suspended or cancelled,

48.ea.iv

for determining whether the person should be removed from the United Kingdom,
or

48.ea.v

for removing the person from the United Kingdom, and

.

### Age Assessments

#### Interpretation of Part etc

49

49.1

In this Part, “ age-disputed person ” means a person—

49.1.a

who requires leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom (whether or not
such leave has been given), and

49.1.b

in relation to whom—

49.1.b.i

a local authority,

49.1.b.ii

a public authority specified in regulations under section 50(1)(b), or

49.1.b.iii

the Secretary of State,

has insufficient evidence to be sure of their age.

49.2

In this Part—

      “ decision-maker ” means a person who conducts an age assessment under
section 50 or 51;           “ designated person ” means an official of the
Secretary of State who is designated by the Secretary of State to conduct age
assessments under section 50 or 51;           “ immigration functions ” means
functions exercisable by virtue of the Immigration Acts;           “
immigration officer ” means a person appointed by the Secretary of State as an
immigration officer under paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act
1971;           “local authority”—         in relation to England and Wales,
means a local authority within the meaning of the Children Act 1989 (see
section 105(1) of that Act),           in relation to Scotland, means a
council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act
1994, and           in relation to Northern Ireland, means a Health and Social
Care trust established under Article 10 of the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991 ( S.I. 1991/194 (N.I. 1) );
“ public authority ” means a public authority within the meaning of section 6
of the Human Rights Act 1998, other than a court or tribunal;           “
specified scientific method ” means a method used for assessing a person’s age
which is specified in regulations under section 52(1).

49.3

In this Part, “ relevant children’s legislation ” means—

49.3.a

in relation to a local authority in England, any provision of or made under
Part 3, 4 or 5 of the Children Act 1989 (support for children and families;
care and supervision; protection of children);

49.3.b

in relation to a local authority in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland, any
statutory provision (including a provision passed or made after the coming
into force of this Part) that confers a corresponding function on such an
authority.

49.4

In subsection (3)—

      “ corresponding function ” means a function that corresponds to a
function conferred on a local authority in England by or under Part 3, 4 or 5
of the Children Act 1989;           “ statutory provision ” means a provision
made by or under—         an Act,           an Act of the Scottish Parliament,
an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or           Northern Ireland legislation.

49.5

In section 94 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (support for asylum-
seekers: interpretation), for subsection (7) substitute—

49.5.7

For further provision as to the conduct of age assessments, which applies for
the purposes of this Part, see Part 4 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

#### Persons subject to immigration control: referral or assessment by local authority etc

50

50.1

The following authorities may refer an age-disputed person to a designated
person for an age assessment under this section—

50.1.a

a local authority;

50.1.b

a public authority specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

50.2

Subsections (3) and (4) apply where—

50.2.a

a local authority needs to know the age of an age-disputed person for the
purposes of deciding whether or how to exercise any of its functions under
relevant children’s legislation in relation to the person, or

50.2.b

the Secretary of State notifies a local authority in writing that the
Secretary of State doubts that an age-disputed person in relation to whom the
local authority has exercised or may exercise functions under relevant
children’s legislation is the age that they claim (or are claimed) to be.

50.3

The local authority must—

50.3.a

refer the age-disputed person to a designated person for an age assessment
under this section,

50.3.b

conduct an age assessment on the age-disputed person itself and inform the
Secretary of State in writing of the result of its assessment, or

50.3.c

inform the Secretary of State in writing that it is satisfied that the person
is the age they claim (or are claimed) to be, without the need for an age
assessment.

50.4

Where a local authority—

50.4.a

conducts an age assessment itself, or

50.4.b

informs the Secretary of State that it is satisfied that an age-disputed
person is the age they claim (or are claimed) to be,

it must, on request from the Secretary of State, provide the Secretary of
State with such evidence as the Secretary of State reasonably requires for the
Secretary of State to consider the local authority’s decision under subsection
(3)(b) or (c).

50.5

Where a local authority refers an age-disputed person to a designated person
for an age assessment under subsection (1) or (3)(a), the local authority must
provide any assistance that the designated person reasonably requires from the
authority for the purposes of conducting that assessment.

50.6

The standard of proof for an age assessment under this section is the balance
of probabilities.

50.7

An age assessment of an age-disputed person conducted by a designated person
following a referral from a local authority under subsection (1) or (3)(a) is
binding—

50.7.a

on the Secretary of State and immigration officers when exercising immigration
functions, and

50.7.b

on a local authority that—

50.7.b.i

has exercised or may exercise functions under relevant children’s legislation
in relation to the age-disputed person, and

50.7.b.ii

is aware of the age assessment conducted by the designated person.

But this is subject to section 54(5) (decision of Tribunal to be binding on
Secretary of State and local authorities) and section 56 (new information
following age assessment or appeal).

50.8

Regulations under subsection (1)(b) are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

#### Persons subject to immigration control: assessment for immigration purposes

51

51.1

A designated person may conduct an age assessment on an age-disputed person
for the purposes of deciding whether or how the Secretary of State or an
immigration officer should exercise any immigration functions in relation to
the person.

51.2

An assessment under subsection (1) may be conducted—

51.2.a

in a case where subsections (3) and (4) of section 50 do not apply, or

51.2.b

in a case where those subsections do apply—

51.2.b.i

at any time before a local authority has referred the age-disputed person to a
designated person under section 50(3)(a) or has informed the Secretary of
State as mentioned in subsection (3)(b) or (c) of that section, or

51.2.b.ii

if the Secretary of State has reason to doubt a local authority’s decision
under subsection (3)(b) or (c) of that section.

51.3

An age assessment under this section is binding on the Secretary of State and
immigration officers when exercising immigration functions.

But this is subject to section 54(5) (decision of Tribunal to be binding on
Secretary of State and local authorities) and section 56 (new information
following age assessment or appeal).

51.4

The standard of proof for an age assessment under this section is the balance
of probabilities.

#### Use of scientific methods in age assessments

52

52.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations specifying scientific methods that
may be used for the purposes of age assessments under section 50 or 51.

52.2

The types of scientific method that may be specified include methods
involving—

52.2.a

examining or measuring parts of a person’s body, including by the use of
imaging technology;

52.2.b

the analysis of saliva, cell or other samples taken from a person (including
the analysis of DNA in the samples).

52.3

A method may not be specified in regulations under subsection (1) unless the
Secretary of State determines, after having sought scientific advice, that the
method is appropriate for assessing a person’s age.

52.4

A specified scientific method may be used for the purposes of an age
assessment under section 50 or 51 only if the appropriate consent is given.

52.5

The appropriate consent is—

52.5.a

where the age-disputed person has the capacity to consent to the use of the
scientific method in question, their consent;

52.5.b

where the age-disputed person does not have the capacity to consent to the use
of the scientific method in question, the consent of—

52.5.b.i

the person’s parent or guardian, or

52.5.b.ii

another person, of a description specified in regulations made by the
Secretary of State, who is able to give consent on behalf of the age-disputed
person.

52.6

Subsection (7) applies where—

52.6.a

the age-disputed person or, in a case where the age-disputed person lacks
capacity, a person mentioned in subsection (5)(b), decides not to consent to
the use of a specified scientific method, and

52.6.b

there are no reasonable grounds for that decision.

52.7

In deciding whether to believe any statement made by or on behalf of the age-
disputed person that is relevant to the assessment of their age, the decision-
maker must take into account, as damaging the age-disputed person’s
credibility (or the credibility of a person who has made a statement on their
behalf), the decision not to consent to the use of the specified scientific
method.

52.8

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

52.9

This section does not prevent the use of a scientific method that is not a
specified scientific method for the purposes of an age assessment under
section 50 or 51 if the decision-maker considers it appropriate to do so and,
where necessary, the appropriate consent is given.

#### Regulations about age assessments

53

53.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations about age assessments under
section 50 or 51, which may in particular include provision about—

53.1.a

the processes to be followed, including—

53.1.a.i

the information and evidence that must be considered and the weight to be
given to it,

53.1.a.ii

the circumstances in which an abbreviated age assessment may be appropriate,

53.1.a.iii

protections or safeguarding measures for the age-disputed person, and

53.1.a.iv

where consent is required for the use of a specified scientific method, the
processes for assessing a person’s capacity to consent, for seeking consent
and for recording the decision on consent;

53.1.b

the qualifications or experience necessary for a person to conduct an age
assessment;

53.1.c

where an age assessment includes use of specified scientific methods—

53.1.c.i

the qualifications or experience necessary for a person to conduct tests in
accordance with those methods, and

53.1.c.ii

the settings in which such tests must be carried out;

53.1.d

the content and distribution of reports on age assessments;

53.1.e

the communication of decisions to the age-disputed person and any other person
affected by the decision, and notification of appeal rights (see section 54);
and

53.1.f

the consequences of a lack of co-operation with the assessment by the age-
disputed person, which may include damage to the person’s credibility.

53.2

The regulations may also include provision about—

53.2.a

referrals under section 50(1) or (3)(a), including the process for making such
a referral and about the withdrawal of a referral;

53.2.b

how and when a local authority must inform the Secretary of State as mentioned
in section 50(3)(b) and (c);

53.2.c

evidence that the Secretary of State may require as mentioned in section
50(4).

53.3

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

#### Appeals relating to age assessments

54

54.1

This section applies if—

54.1.a

an age assessment is conducted on an age-disputed person (“ P ”) under section
50 or 51, and

54.1.b

the decision-maker decides that P is an age other than the age that P claims
(or is claimed) to be.

54.2

P may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision-maker’s decision.

54.3

On the appeal, the Tribunal must—

54.3.a

determine P’s age on the balance of probabilities, and

54.3.b

assign a date of birth to P.

54.4

In making the determination, the Tribunal may consider any matter which it
thinks relevant, including—

54.4.a

any matter of which the decision-maker was unaware, and

54.4.b

any matter arising after the date of the decision appealed against.

54.5

A determination on an appeal under subsection  (2)  is binding—

54.5.a

on the Secretary of State and immigration officers when exercising immigration
functions in relation to P, and

54.5.b

on a local authority that has exercised or may exercise functions under
relevant children’s legislation in relation to P.

54.6

This section is subject to—

54.6.a

section 55 (appeals relating to age assessments: supplementary), and

54.6.b

section 56 (new information following age assessment or appeal).

#### Appeals relating to age assessments: supplementary

55

55.1

This section applies to an appeal under section 54(2).

55.2

The appeal must be brought from within the United Kingdom.

55.3

If the person who brings the appeal leaves the United Kingdom before the
appeal is finally determined, the appeal is to be treated as abandoned.

55.4

The person who brings the appeal may make an application to the First-tier
Tribunal for an order that, until the appeal is finally determined, withdrawn
or abandoned, the local authority must exercise its functions under relevant
children’s legislation in relation to the person on the basis that they are
the age that they claim (or are claimed) to be.

55.5

Subsection  (6)  applies if it is alleged—

55.5.a

that a document relied on by a party to an appeal is a forgery, and

55.5.b

that disclosure to that party of a matter relating to the detection of the
forgery would be contrary to the public interest.

55.6

The First-tier Tribunal—

55.6.a

must investigate the allegation in private, and

55.6.b

may proceed in private so far as necessary to prevent disclosure of the matter
referred to in subsection  (5)(b) .

55.7

Subsection  (8)  applies in relation to—

55.7.a

proceedings on an appeal, and

55.7.b

proceedings in the Upper Tribunal arising out of proceedings within paragraph
(a).

55.8

Practice directions under section 23 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement
Act 2007 may require the First-tier Tribunal or the Upper Tribunal to treat a
specified decision of the First-tier Tribunal or the Upper Tribunal as
authoritative in respect of a particular matter.

55.9

For the purposes of this Part an appeal is not finally determined if—

55.9.a

an application for permission to appeal under section 11, 13 or 14B of the
Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 could be made (ignoring any
possibility of an application out of time) or is awaiting determination,

55.9.b

an application for permission to appeal to the Supreme Court from—

55.9.b.i

the Court of Appeal in England and Wales,

55.9.b.ii

the Court of Session, or

55.9.b.iii

the Court of Appeal in Northern Ireland,

could be made (ignoring any possibility of an application out of time) or is
awaiting determination,

55.9.c

permission to appeal of the kind mentioned in paragraph (a) or (b) has been
granted and the appeal is awaiting determination, or

55.9.d

an appeal has been remitted under section 12 or 14 of the Tribunals, Courts
and Enforcement Act 2007, or by the Supreme Court, and is awaiting
determination.

#### New information following age assessment or appeal

56

56.1

This section applies where—

56.1.a

an age assessment has been conducted on an age-disputed person (“ P ”) under
section 50 or 51,

56.1.b

an appeal under section 54(2) could no longer be brought (ignoring any
possibility of an appeal out of time) or has been finally determined, and

56.1.c

the decision-maker becomes aware of new information relating to P’s age.

56.2

In this section, the age assessment referred to in subsection (1)(a) is
referred to as the “ first age assessment ”.

56.3

In a case where the first age assessment was conducted by a designated person,
they must—

56.3.a

decide whether the new information is significant new evidence, and

56.3.b

if they decide that it is, conduct a further age assessment on P.

56.4

In a case where the first age assessment was conducted by a local authority,
it must—

56.4.a

decide whether the new information is significant new evidence or refer the
new information to a designated person for a decision on that matter, and

56.4.b

if it is decided that the new information is significant new evidence—

56.4.b.i

conduct a further age assessment on P, or

56.4.b.ii

refer P to a designated person for a further age assessment.

56.5

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (4), new information is “significant
new evidence” if there is a realistic prospect that, if a further age
assessment were to be conducted on P, taking into account the new information,
P’s age would be assessed as different from the age determined in the first
age assessment or in the appeal proceedings.

56.6

A further age assessment conducted by a designated person under subsection (3)
or (4)(b)(ii) is to be treated—

56.6.a

in a case where the first age assessment was conducted under section 50, as an
age assessment conducted by the designated person following a referral under
subsection (3)(a) of that section;

56.6.b

in a case where the first age assessment was conducted under section 51, as an
age assessment conducted under that section.

56.7

A further age assessment conducted by a local authority under subsection
(4)(b)(i) is to be treated as an age assessment conducted by a local authority
under section 50(3)(b).

56.8

A person conducting a further age assessment under this section does not need
to revisit matters that were considered in the first age assessment if they do
not think it is necessary to do so.

#### Civil legal services relating to age assessments

57

57.1

Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012
(civil legal services) is amended as follows.

57.2

In Part 1 (services) after paragraph 31A insert—

########## Appeals relating to age assessments under the Nationality and Borders Act 2022

57.2.31B

57.2.31B.1

Civil legal services provided in relation to—

57.2.31B.1.a

an appeal under section 54(2) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (appeals
relating to age assessments),

57.2.31B.1.b

an application for an order under section 55(4) of that Act (order for support
to be provided pending final determination of appeal), and

57.2.31B.1.c

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal, Court of Appeal or Supreme Court relating to
an appeal within paragraph (a) or an application within paragraph (b).

############# Exclusions

57.2.31B.2

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject to the exclusions in Parts 2 and 3 of this
Schedule.

57.3

In Part 3 (advocacy: exclusions and exceptions), in paragraph 13 (advocacy in
proceedings in the First-tier Tribunal), after “31A,” insert  “31B,” .

### Modern Slavery

#### Provision of information relating to being a victim of slavery or human trafficking

58

58.1

The Secretary of State may serve a slavery or trafficking information notice
on a person who has made a protection claim or a human rights claim.

58.2

A “slavery or trafficking information notice” is a notice requiring the
recipient to provide the Secretary of State (and any other competent authority
specified in the notice), before the specified date, with any relevant status
information the recipient has.

58.3

“Relevant status information” is information that may be relevant for the
purpose of making a reasonable grounds decision or a conclusive grounds
decision in relation to the recipient.

58.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if the recipient of a slavery or trafficking
information notice provides the Secretary of State or competent authority with
relevant status information on or after the specified date.

58.5

The recipient must also provide a statement setting out their reasons for not
providing the relevant status information before the specified date (and see
section 59).

58.6

In this section—

      “ protection claim ” and “ human rights claim ” have the same meanings
as in Part 2;           “ specified date ” means the date specified in the
slavery or trafficking information notice.

#### Late compliance with slavery or trafficking information notice: damage to credibility

59

59.1

This section applies where—

59.1.a

a person aged 18 or over has been served with a slavery or trafficking
information notice under section 58,

59.1.b

the person provided relevant status information late, and

59.1.c

a competent authority is making a reasonable grounds decision or a conclusive
grounds decision in relation to the person.

59.2

In determining whether to believe a statement made by or on behalf of the
person, the competent authority must take account, as damaging the person’s
credibility, of the late provision of the relevant status information, unless
there are good reasons why the information was provided late.

59.3

For the purposes of this section, relevant status information is provided
“late” by the person if it is provided on or after the date specified in the
slavery or trafficking information notice.

59.4

In this section, “ relevant status information ” has the same meaning as in
section 58 (see subsection  (3)  of that section).

#### Identification of potential victims of slavery or human trafficking

60

60.1

The Modern Slavery Act 2015 is amended as follows.

60.2

Section 49 (guidance about identifying and supporting victims) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

60.3

In subsection (1)—

60.3.a

in paragraph (b)—

60.3.a.i

for “may be” substitute  “are” ;

60.3.a.ii

at the end insert  “or who are such victims” ;

60.3.b

in paragraph (c) for “may be” substitute  “is” ;

60.3.c

after paragraph (c) insert—

60.3.c.d

arrangements for determining whether a person is a victim of slavery or human
trafficking.

60.4

After that subsection insert—

60.4.1A

Guidance issued under subsection (1) must, in particular, provide that the
determination mentioned in paragraph (d) is to be made on the balance of
probabilities.

60.5

In section 50 (regulations about identifying and supporting victims)—

60.5.a

in subsection (1)(a) for “may be” substitute  “are” ;

60.5.b

in subsection (2)(a) for “may be” substitute  “is” ;

60.5.c

after subsection (3) insert—

60.5.c.4

If regulations under subsection (2) make provision for determining whether a
person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking (as mentioned in paragraph
(b) of that subsection), they must provide that the determination is to be
made on the balance of probabilities.

60.6

In section 51 (presumption about age)—

60.6.a

in subsection (1)(a) for “may be” substitute  “is” ;

60.6.b

in subsection (3), in the opening words, for “may be” substitute  “are” .

60.7

In section 56 (interpretation)—

60.7.a

before subsection (1) insert—

60.7.a.A1

For the purposes of sections 48 to 53 (identification and protection of
victims), “victim of slavery” and “victim of human trafficking” have the
meanings given in regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 69
of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

;

60.7.b

in each of subsections (1) and (2), after “purposes of” insert  “any other
provision of” .

#### Identified potential victims of slavery or human trafficking: recovery period

61

61.1

This section applies to a person (an “identified potential victim”) if—

61.1.a

a decision is made by a competent authority that there are reasonable grounds
to believe that the person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking (a
“positive reasonable grounds decision”), and

61.1.b

that decision is not a further RG decision (as to which, see section 62).

61.2

Subject to section 63(2), the identified potential victim may not be removed
from, or required to leave, the United Kingdom during the recovery period.

61.3

The “ recovery period ”, in relation to an identified potential victim, is the
period—

61.3.a

beginning with the day on which the positive reasonable grounds decision is
made, and

61.3.b

ending with whichever of the following is the later—

61.3.b.i

the day on which the conclusive grounds decision is made in relation to the
identified potential victim;

61.3.b.ii

the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the day mentioned in paragraph
(a).

#### No entitlement to additional recovery period etc

62

62.1

This section applies where—

62.1.a

a competent authority has previously made a positive reasonable grounds
decision in relation to a person (the “first RG decision”), and

62.1.b

a further positive reasonable grounds decision is made in relation to the
person, in a case where the reasonable grounds for believing that the person
is a victim of slavery or human trafficking arise from things done wholly
before the first RG decision was made (the “further RG decision”).

62.2

If the competent authority considers it appropriate in the circumstances of a
particular case, the authority may determine that the person may not be
removed from, or required to leave, the United Kingdom during the period—

62.2.a

beginning with the day on which the further RG decision is made, and

62.2.b

ending with whichever of the following is the later—

62.2.b.i

the day on which the conclusive grounds decision is made in relation to the
further RG decision;

62.2.b.ii

the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the day mentioned in paragraph
(a).

This is subject to section 63(2).

#### Identified potential victims etc: disqualification from protection

63

63.1

A competent authority may determine that subsection  (2)  is to apply to a
person in relation to whom a positive reasonable grounds decision has been
made if the authority is satisfied that the person—

63.1.a

is a threat to public order, or

63.1.b

has claimed to be a victim of slavery or human trafficking in bad faith.

63.2

Where this subsection applies to a person the following cease to apply—

63.2.a

any prohibition on removing the person from, or requiring them to leave, the
United Kingdom arising under section 61 or 62, and

63.2.b

any requirement under section 65 to grant the person limited leave to remain
in the United Kingdom.

63.3

For the purposes of this section, the circumstances in which a person is a
threat to public order include, in particular, where—

63.3.a

the person has been convicted of a terrorist offence;

63.3.b

the person has been convicted of any other offence listed in Schedule 4 to the
Modern Slavery Act 2015 anywhere in the United Kingdom, or of a corresponding
offence;

63.3.c

the person is subject to a TPIM notice (within the meaning given by section 2
of the Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011);

63.3.d

there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the person is or has been
involved in terrorism-related activity within the meaning given by section 4
of that Act (whether or not the terrorism-related activity is attributable to
the person being, or having been, a victim of slavery or human trafficking);

63.3.da

the person is subject to a notice under Part 2 of the National Security Act
2023;

63.3.db

there are reasonable grounds to suspect that the person is or has been
involved in foreign power threat activity within the meaning given by section
33 of that Act (whether or not the foreign power threat activity is
attributable to the person being, or having been, a victim of slavery or human
trafficking);

63.3.e

the person is subject to a temporary exclusion order imposed under section 2
of the Counter-Terrorism and Security Act 2015;

63.3.f

the person is a foreign criminal within the meaning given by section 32(1) of
the UK Borders Act 2007 (automatic deportation for foreign criminals);

63.3.g

the Secretary of State has made an order in relation to the person under
section 40(2) of the British Nationality Act 1981 (order depriving person of
citizenship status where to do so is conducive to the public good);

63.3.h

the Refugee Convention does not apply to the person by virtue of Article 1(F)
of that Convention (serious criminals etc);

63.3.i

the person otherwise poses a risk to the national security of the United
Kingdom.

63.4

In subsection  (3)(a) , “ terrorist offence ” means any of the following
(whenever committed)—

63.4.a

an offence listed in—

63.4.a.i

Schedule A1 to the Sentencing Code (terrorism offences: England and Wales), or

63.4.a.ii

Schedule 1A to the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (terrorism offences: Scotland
and Northern Ireland);

63.4.b

an offence that was determined to have a terrorist connection under—

63.4.b.i

section 69 of the Sentencing Code (in the case of an offender sentenced in
England and Wales), or

63.4.b.ii

section 30 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced in Northern Ireland, or an offender sentenced in England and Wales
before the Sentencing Code applied);

63.4.c

an offence that has been proved to have been aggravated by reason of having a
terrorist connection under section 31 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in
the case of an offender sentenced in Scotland);

63.4.d

an act constituting an offence under the law in force in a country outside the
United Kingdom that—

63.4.d.i

would have constituted an offence within paragraph (a) if it had been
committed in any part of the United Kingdom, or

63.4.d.ii

was, or took place in the course of, an act of terrorism or was done for the
purposes of terrorism.

63.5

In subsection  (3)(b)  “ corresponding offence ” means—

63.5.a

an offence under the law of Scotland or of Northern Ireland which corresponds
to an offence listed in Schedule 4 to the Modern Slavery Act 2015;

63.5.b

an act constituting an offence under the law in force in a country outside the
United Kingdom that would have constituted an offence listed in that Schedule
if it had been committed in England or Wales.

63.6

For the purposes of this section an act punishable under the law in force in a
country outside the United Kingdom is regarded as constituting an offence
under that law however it is described in that law.

63.7

In this section—

“ act ” includes an omission; “ the Refugee Convention ” means the Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July 1951 and its
Protocol; “ terrorism ” has the same meaning as in the Terrorism Act 2000 (see
section 1 of that Act).

#### Identified potential victims etc in England and Wales: assistance and support

64

After section 50 of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 insert—

######## Identified potential victims etc: assistance and support

64.50A

64.50A.1

The Secretary of State must secure that any necessary assistance and support
is available to an identified potential victim (within the meaning given by
section 61 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (the “ 2022 Act ”)) during
the recovery period.

64.50A.2

For the purposes of this section, assistance and support is “necessary” if the
Secretary of State considers that it is necessary for the purpose of assisting
the person receiving it in their recovery from any physical, psychological or
social harm arising from the conduct which resulted in the positive reasonable
grounds decision in question.

64.50A.3

Subsection (4) applies where a further RG decision, within the meaning given
by section 62 of the 2022 Act, is made in relation to a person.

64.50A.4

If the Secretary of State determines that it is appropriate to do so, the
Secretary of State must secure that any necessary assistance and support is
available to the person during the period—

64.50A.4.a

beginning with the day on which the further RG decision is made, and

64.50A.4.b

ending with whichever of the following is the later—

64.50A.4.b.i

the day on which the conclusive grounds decision is made in relation to the
further RG decision;

64.50A.4.b.ii

the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the day mentioned in paragraph
(a).

64.50A.5

Any duty under subsection (1) or (4) ceases to apply in relation to a person
in respect of whom a determination is made under section 63 (2)  of the 2022
Act (disqualification from protection).

64.50A.6

In this section, a reference to assistance and support is to assistance and
support provided in accordance with—

64.50A.6.a

arrangements referred to in section 49(1)(b), or

64.50A.6.b

regulations made under section 50.

64.50A.7

In this section—

      “ conclusive grounds decision ” has the same meaning as in Part 5 of the
2022 Act (see section 69 of that Act);           “ recovery period ” has the
same meaning as in section 61 of that Act.

#### Leave to remain for victims of slavery or human trafficking

65

65.1

This section applies if a positive conclusive grounds decision is made in
respect of a person—

65.1.a

who is not a British citizen, and

65.1.b

who does not have leave to remain in the United Kingdom.

65.2

The Secretary of State must grant the person limited leave to remain in the
United Kingdom if the Secretary of State considers it is necessary for the
purpose of—

65.2.a

assisting the person in their recovery from any physical or psychological harm
arising from the relevant exploitation,

65.2.b

enabling the person to seek compensation in respect of the relevant
exploitation, or

65.2.c

enabling the person to co-operate with a public authority in connection with
an investigation or criminal proceedings in respect of the relevant
exploitation.

65.3

Subsection (2) is subject to section 63(2).

65.4

Leave is not necessary for the purpose mentioned in—

65.4.a

subsection  (2)(a)  if the Secretary of State considers that the person’s need
for assistance is capable of being met in a country or territory within
paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection  (5)  (or both);

65.4.b

subsection  (2)(b)  if the Secretary of State considers that—

65.4.b.i

the person is capable of seeking compensation from outside the United Kingdom,
and

65.4.b.ii

it would be reasonable for the person to do so in the circumstances.

65.5

A country or territory is within this subsection if—

65.5.a

it is a country of which the person is a national or citizen;

65.5.b

it is one to which the person may be removed in accordance with an agreement
between that country or territory and the United Kingdom (which may be, but
does not need to be, an agreement contemplated by Article 40(2) of the
Trafficking Convention).

65.6

Subsection  (7)  applies if the Secretary of State is satisfied that—

65.6.a

the person is a threat to public order, or

65.6.b

the person has claimed to be a victim of slavery or human trafficking in bad
faith.

65.7

Where this subsection applies—

65.7.a

the Secretary of State is not required to grant the person leave under
subsection  (2) , and

65.7.b

if such leave has already been granted to the person, it may be revoked.

65.8

Leave granted to a person under subsection  (2)  may be revoked in such other
circumstances as may be prescribed in immigration rules.

65.9

Subsections  (3)  to  (7)  of section 63 apply for the purposes of this
section as they apply for the purposes of that section.

65.10

In this section—

      “ positive conclusive grounds decision ” means a decision made by a
competent authority that a person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking;
“ public authority ” means any public authority within the meaning of section
6 of the Human Rights Act 1998;           “ the relevant exploitation ” means
the conduct resulting in the positive conclusive grounds decision.

65.11

This section is to be treated for the purposes of section 3 of the Immigration
Act 1971 as if it were provision made by that Act.

#### Civil legal services under section 9 of LASPO: add-on services in relation to the national referral mechanism

66

66.1

Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders
Act 2012 (civil legal services qualifying for legal aid) is amended as
follows.

66.2

In paragraph 19 (judicial review)—

66.2.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

############ Add-on services in relation to referral into the national referral mechanism

66.2.a.1A

Civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to referral into
the national referral mechanism, in a case where the Director has determined
the individual qualifies for any services described in sub-paragraph (1) that
are of a description to which sub-paragraph (1B) applies (and has not
withdrawn the determination).

66.2.a.1B

This sub-paragraph applies to services in relation to any immigration or
asylum decision (or failure to make a decision) against which there is no
right of appeal.

;

66.2.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

66.2.b.2A

Sub-paragraph (1A) is subject to the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule.

;

66.2.c

after sub-paragraph (8) insert—

############ Add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A): specific exclusions

66.2.c.8A

The add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A) do not include—

66.2.c.8A.a

advocacy, or

66.2.c.8A.b

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of a reasonable grounds decision
or a conclusive grounds decision.

66.3

In each of paragraphs 25, 26, 27 and 27A (various immigration matters)—

66.3.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

############ Add-on services in relation to referral into the national referral mechanism

66.3.a.1A

Civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to referral into
the national referral mechanism, in a case where the Director has determined
the individual qualifies for any services described in sub-paragraph (1) (and
has not withdrawn that determination).

;

66.3.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

66.3.b.3

Sub-paragraph (1A) is subject to the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule.

############ Add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A): specific exclusions

66.3.b.4

The add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A) do not include—

66.3.b.4.a

advocacy, or

66.3.b.4.b

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of a reasonable grounds decision
or a conclusive grounds decision.

66.4

In paragraph 30 (immigration: rights to enter and remain)—

66.4.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

############ Add-on services in relation to referral into the national referral mechanism

66.4.a.1A

Civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to referral into
the national referral mechanism, in a case where the Director has determined
the individual qualifies for any services described in sub-paragraph (1) (and
has not withdrawn the determination).

;

66.4.b

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

66.4.b.2A

Sub-paragraph (1A) is subject to the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule.

;

66.4.c

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

############ Add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A): specific exclusions

66.4.c.3A

The add-on services described in sub-paragraph (1A) do not include—

66.4.c.3A.a

advocacy, or

66.4.c.3A.b

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of a reasonable grounds decision
or a conclusive grounds decision.

66.5

In paragraph 31A (immigration, citizenship and nationality: separated
children)—

66.5.a

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

############ Add-on services in relation to referral into the national referral mechanism

66.5.a.2A

Civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to referral into
the national referral mechanism, in a case where the Director has determined
the individual qualifies for any services described in sub-paragraph (1) (and
has not withdrawn the determination).

;

66.5.b

after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

66.5.b.3A

Sub-paragraph (2A) is subject to the exclusions in Part 2 of this Schedule.

############ Add-on services described in sub-paragraph (2A): specific exclusions

66.5.b.3B

The add-on services described in sub-paragraph (2A) do not include—

66.5.b.3B.a

advocacy, or

66.5.b.3B.b

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of a reasonable grounds decision
or a conclusive grounds decision.

66.6

In Part 4 of Schedule 1 to that Act (interpretation) after paragraph 7 insert—

66.6.8

In this Schedule—

      “ civil legal services provided to an individual in relation to referral
into the national referral mechanism ” means—         advice on the national
referral mechanism, or           other civil legal services in connection with
accessing that mechanism,         provided to an individual before a
reasonable grounds decision has been made in relation to that individual;
”competent authority” (in relation to the national referral mechanism) means a
person who is a competent authority of the United Kingdom for the purposes of
the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings
(done at Warsaw on 16 May 2005);           “ national referral mechanism ”
means the national framework (known as the National Referral Mechanism) for
identifying and referring potential victims of modern slavery and ensuring
they receive appropriate support;           “ reasonable grounds decision ”
and “ conclusive grounds decision ” have the same meaning as in Part 5 (modern
slavery) of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (see section 69 of that Act).

66.7

Any amendment made by this section describing add-on services that may be
provided to an individual where the Director of Legal Aid Casework has made a
relevant determination does not apply to a determination made before the
amendment comes into force.

#### Civil legal services under section 10 of LASPO: add-on services in relation to national referral mechanism

67

In section 10 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act
2012 (civil legal services in exceptional cases), after subsection (3) insert—

67.3A

Civil legal services provided in relation to referral into the national
referral mechanism are to be available to an individual in a case where
subsection (2) is satisfied in relation to the individual and to services of a
kind to which subsection (3B) applies.

67.3B

This subsection applies to services in relation to a claim by the individual
made to the Secretary of State that to remove the individual from, or to
require the person to leave, the United Kingdom would be unlawful under
section 6 of the Human Rights Act 1998.

67.3C

The services described in subsection (3A) do not include—

67.3C.a

the services listed in Part 2 of Schedule 1;

67.3C.b

advocacy;

67.3C.c

attendance at an interview conducted by the competent authority under the
national referral mechanism for the purposes of a reasonable grounds decision.

67.3D

In subsection (3A) “ civil legal services in relation to referral into the
national referral mechanism ” means—

67.3D.a

advice on the national referral mechanism, or

67.3D.b

other civil legal services in connection with accessing that mechanism,

provided before a reasonable grounds decision has been made in relation to the
individual to whom the services are provided.

67.3E

In subsections (3C) and (3D)—

      “ competent authority ” and “ national referral mechanism ” have the
same meaning as in Schedule 1 (see paragraph 8 of Part 4 of that Schedule);
“ reasonable grounds decision ” has the same meaning as in Part 5 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 (see section 69 of that Act).

#### Disapplication of retained EU law deriving from Trafficking Directive

68

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Part 5: interpretation

69

69.1

In this Part—

      “ competent authority ” means a person who is a competent authority of
the United Kingdom for the purposes of the Trafficking Convention;           “
conclusive grounds decision ” means a decision by a competent authority as to
whether a person is a victim of slavery or human trafficking;           “
positive reasonable grounds decision ” has the meaning given by section 61(1);
“ reasonable grounds decision ” means a decision by a competent authority as
to whether there are reasonable grounds to believe that a person is a victim
of slavery or human trafficking;           the “ Trafficking Convention ”
means the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human
Beings (done at Warsaw on 16 May 2005);           “victim of slavery” and
“victim of human trafficking” have the meanings given in regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

69.2

Regulations under subsection (1) are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

### Miscellaneous

#### Visa penalty provision: general

70

70.1

The immigration rules may make such visa penalty provision as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate in relation to a country specified under section
71 or 72.

70.2

“Visa penalty provision” is provision that does one or more of the following
in relation to applications for entry clearance made by persons as nationals
or citizens of a specified country—

70.2.a

requires that entry clearance must not be granted pursuant to such an
application before the end of a specified period;

70.2.b

suspends the power to grant entry clearance pursuant to such an application;

70.2.c

requires such an application to be treated as invalid for the purposes of the
immigration rules;

70.2.d

requires the applicant to pay £190 in connection with the making of such an
application, in addition to any fee or other amount payable pursuant to any
other enactment.

70.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations substitute a different amount for
the amount for the time being mentioned in subsection  (2)(d) .

70.4

Before making visa penalty provision in relation to a specified country, the
Secretary of State must give the government of that country reasonable notice
of the proposal to do so.

70.5

The immigration rules must secure that visa penalty provision does not apply
in relation to an application made before the day on which the provision comes
into force.

70.6

Visa penalty provision may—

70.6.a

make different provision for different purposes;

70.6.b

provide for exceptions or exemptions, whether by conferring a discretion or
otherwise;

70.6.c

include incidental, supplementary, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

70.7

Regulations under subsection  (3) —

70.7.a

are subject to affirmative resolution procedure if they increase the amount
for the time being specified in subsection  (2)(d) ;

70.7.b

are subject to negative resolution procedure if they decrease that amount.

70.8

Sums received by virtue of subsection  (2)(d)  must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

70.9

In this section—

      “ country ” includes any territory outside the United Kingdom;
“ entry clearance ” has the same meaning as in the Immigration Act 1971 (see
section 33(1) of that Act);           “ immigration rules ” means rules under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971;           “ specified ” means
specified in the immigration rules.

#### Visa penalties for countries posing risk to international peace and security etc

71

71.1

A country may be specified under this section if, in the opinion of the
Secretary of State, the government of the country has taken action that—

71.1.a

gives, or is likely to give, rise to a threat to international peace and
security,

71.1.b

results, or is likely to result, in armed conflict, or

71.1.c

gives, or is likely to give, rise to a breach of international humanitarian
law.

71.2

In deciding whether to specify a country for the purposes of this section, the
Secretary of State must take the following into account—

71.2.a

the extent of the action taken;

71.2.b

the likelihood of further action falling within subsection  (1)  being taken;

71.2.c

the reasons for the action being taken;

71.2.d

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

71.3

In this section—

      “ action ” includes a failure to act;           “ country ” and “
specified ” have the same meanings as in section 70.

#### Removals from the UK: visa penalties for uncooperative countries

72

72.1

A country may be specified under this section if, in the opinion of the
Secretary of State—

72.1.a

the government of the country is not cooperating in relation to the return to
the country from the United Kingdom of any of its nationals or citizens who
require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom but do not have it, and

72.1.b

as a result, there are nationals or citizens of the country that the Secretary
of State has been unable to return to the country, whether or not others have
been returned.

72.2

In forming an opinion as to whether a country is cooperating in relation to
returns, the Secretary of State must take the following into account—

72.2.a

any arrangements (whether formal or informal) entered into by the government
of the country with the United Kingdom government or the Secretary of State
with a view to facilitating returns;

72.2.b

the extent to which the government of the country is—

72.2.b.i

taking the steps that are in practice necessary or expedient in relation to
facilitating returns, and

72.2.b.ii

doing so promptly;

72.2.c

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

72.3

In determining whether to specify a country for the purposes of this section,
the Secretary of State must take the following into account—

72.3.a

the length of time for which the government of the country has not been
cooperating in relation to returns;

72.3.b

the extent of the lack of cooperation;

72.3.c

the reasons for the lack of cooperation;

72.3.d

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

72.4

In this section—

      “ cooperating in relation to returns ” means cooperating as mentioned in
subsection  (1)(a) ;           “ country ” and “ specified ” have the same
meanings as in section 70;           “ facilitating returns ” means
facilitating the return of nationals or citizens to a country as mentioned in
subsection  (1)(a) .

#### Visa penalties under section 71: review and revocation

73

73.1

This section applies where any visa penalty provision made pursuant to section
71 is in force in relation to a country.

73.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of each relevant period—

73.2.a

review the extent to which the country’s government is continuing to act in a
way that, in the opinion of Secretary of State, has or is likely to have any
of the consequences mentioned in section 71 (1) , and

73.2.b

in light of that review, determine whether it is appropriate to amend the visa
penalty provision.

73.3

If, at any time, the Secretary of State forms the opinion that, despite the
fact that the country’s government has taken or is taking action as mentioned
in section 71 (1) , the visa penalty provision is not necessary or expedient
in connection with—

73.3.a

the promotion of international peace and security,

73.3.b

the resolution or prevention of armed conflict, or

73.3.c

the promotion of compliance with international humanitarian law,

the Secretary of State must as soon as practicable revoke the visa penalty
provision.

73.4

Each of the following is a relevant period—

73.4.a

the period of 2 months beginning with the day on which the visa penalty
provision came into force;

73.4.b

each subsequent period of 2 months.

73.5

In this section, “ visa penalty provision ” has the same meaning as in section
70.

#### Visa penalties under section 72: review and revocation

74

74.1

This section applies where any visa penalty provision made pursuant to section
72 is in force in relation to a country.

74.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of each relevant period—

74.2.a

review the extent to which the country’s cooperation in relation to returns
has improved, and

74.2.b

in light of that review, determine whether it is appropriate to amend the visa
penalty provision.

74.3

If at any time the Secretary of State is no longer of the opinion mentioned in
section 72(1), the Secretary of State must as soon as practicable revoke the
visa penalty provision.

74.4

Each of the following is a relevant period—

74.4.a

the period of 2 months beginning with the day on which the visa penalty
provision came into force;

74.4.b

each subsequent period of 2 months.

74.5

In this section—

74.5.a

“ visa penalty provision ” has the same meaning as in section 70;

74.5.b

“ cooperation in relation to returns ” means cooperation as mentioned in
section 72 (1)(a) .

#### Electronic travel authorisations

75

75.1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to
(4) .

75.2

After Part 1 insert—

########## Electronic travel authorisations

########### Electronic travel authorisations

75.2.11C

75.2.11C.1

In this Act, “ an ETA ” means an authorisation in electronic form to travel to
the United Kingdom.

75.2.11C.2

Immigration rules may require an individual of a description specified in the
rules not to travel to the United Kingdom from any place (including a place in
the common travel area), whether with a view to entering the United Kingdom or
to passing through it without entering, unless the individual has an ETA that
is valid for the individual’s journey to the United Kingdom.

75.2.11C.3

The rules may not impose this requirement on an individual if—

75.2.11C.3.a

the individual is a British citizen, or

75.2.11C.3.b

the individual would, on arrival in the United Kingdom, be entitled to enter
without leave.

75.2.11C.4

In relation to an individual travelling to the United Kingdom on a local
journey from a place in the common travel area, subsection (3)(b) applies only
if the individual would also be entitled to enter without leave if the journey
were instead from a place outside the common travel area.

75.2.11C.5

The rules may impose the requirement mentioned in subsection  (2)  on an
individual who—

75.2.11C.5.a

travels to the United Kingdom on a local journey from a place in any of the
Islands, and

75.2.11C.5.b

has leave to enter or remain in that island,

only if it appears to the Secretary of State necessary to do so by reason of
differences between the immigration laws of the United Kingdom and that
island.

75.2.11C.6

The rules must—

75.2.11C.6.a

provide for the form or manner in which an application for an ETA may be made,
granted or refused;

75.2.11C.6.b

specify the conditions (if any) which must be met before an application for an
ETA may be granted;

75.2.11C.6.c

specify the grounds on which an application for an ETA must or may be refused;

75.2.11C.6.d

specify the criteria to be applied in determining—

75.2.11C.6.d.i

the period for which an ETA is valid;

75.2.11C.6.d.ii

the number of journeys to the United Kingdom during that period for which it
is valid (which may be unlimited);

75.2.11C.6.e

require an ETA to include provision setting out the matters mentioned in
paragraph  (d)(i)  and  (ii) ;

75.2.11C.6.f

provide for the form or manner in which an ETA may be varied or cancelled;

75.2.11C.6.g

specify the grounds on which an ETA must or may be varied or cancelled.

75.2.11C.7

The rules may also—

75.2.11C.7.a

provide for exceptions to the requirement described in subsection  (2) , and

75.2.11C.7.b

make other provision relating to ETAs.

75.2.11C.8

Rules made by virtue of this section may make different provision for
different cases or descriptions of case.

########### Electronic travel authorisations and the Islands

75.2.11D

75.2.11D.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the effects in
the United Kingdom of the grant or refusal under the law of any of the Islands
of an authorisation in electronic form to travel to that island.

75.2.11D.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may in particular make provision about—

75.2.11D.2.a

the recognition in the United Kingdom of an authorisation granted as mentioned
in subsection  (1) ;

75.2.11D.2.b

the conditions or limitations that are to apply in the United Kingdom to such
an authorisation;

75.2.11D.2.c

the effects in the United Kingdom of such an authorisation being varied or
cancelled under the law of any of the Islands;

75.2.11D.2.d

the circumstances in which the Secretary of State or an immigration officer
may vary or cancel such an authorisation (so far as it applies in the United
Kingdom).

75.2.11D.3

The Secretary of State may, where requested to do so by any of the Islands,
carry out functions on behalf of that island in relation to the granting of
authorisations in electronic form to travel to that island.

75.2.11D.4

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

75.2.11D.4.a

may make provision modifying the effect of any provision of, or made under,
this Act or any other enactment (whenever passed or made);

75.2.11D.4.b

may make different provision for different purposes;

75.2.11D.4.c

may make transitional, transitory or saving provision;

75.2.11D.4.d

may make incidental, supplementary or consequential provision.

75.2.11D.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are to be made by statutory instrument.

75.2.11D.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (1)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

75.3

In section 24A (deception), in subsection (1)(a)—

75.3.a

after “obtain” insert  “— (i)” ;

75.3.b

after “Kingdom” insert

, or

75.3.b.ii

an ETA

.

75.4

In section 33 (interpretation), in subsection (1), at the appropriate place
insert—

      “ an ETA ” has the meaning given by section  11C ;

.

75.5

In section 82 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (interpretation of Part
5, which relates to immigration advisers and immigration service providers),
in subsection (1), in the definition of “relevant matters”, after paragraph
(a) insert—

      an application for an ETA (within the meaning of section  11C  of the
Immigration Act 1971 (electronic travel authorisations));

.

75.6

In section 126 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (compulsory
provision of physical data), in subsection (2), before paragraph (a) insert—

75.6.za

an ETA (within the meaning of section  11C  of the Immigration Act 1971
(electronic travel authorisations)),

.

#### Liability of carriers

76

76.1

Section 40 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (liability of carriers in
respect of passengers) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (8)
.

76.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

76.2.1

The Secretary of State may charge the owner of a ship or aircraft the sum of
£2,000 where—

76.2.1.a

an individual who would not, on arrival in the United Kingdom, be entitled to
enter without leave arrives by travelling on the ship or aircraft, and

76.2.1.b

at least one of the Cases set out in subsections (1A) to (1C) applies.

76.2.1A

Case 1 is where, on being required to do so by an immigration officer, the
individual fails to produce an immigration document which is valid and which
satisfactorily establishes the individual’s identity and the individual’s
nationality or citizenship.

76.2.1B

Case 2 is where—

76.2.1B.a

the individual requires an entry clearance,

76.2.1B.b

an entry clearance in electronic form of the required kind has not been
granted, and

76.2.1B.c

if required to do so by an immigration officer, the individual fails to
produce an entry clearance in documentary form of the required kind.

76.2.1C

Case 3 is where—

76.2.1C.a

the individual was required not to travel to the United Kingdom unless the
individual had an authorisation in electronic form (“an ETA”) under
immigration rules made by virtue of section 11C of the Immigration Act 1971
that was valid for the individual’s journey to the United Kingdom, and

76.2.1C.b

the individual did not have such an ETA.

76.3

Omit subsection (2).

76.4

In subsection (4), for the words from “No charge” to “documents” substitute
“No charge shall be payable on the basis that Case 1 applies in respect of any
individual if the owner provides evidence that the individual produced an
immigration document of the kind mentioned in subsection  (1A) ” .

76.5

After subsection (4) insert—

76.5.4A

No charge shall be payable on the basis that Case 2 applies in respect of any
individual if the owner provides evidence that—

76.5.4A.a

the individual produced an entry clearance in documentary form of the required
kind to the owner or an employee or agent of the owner when embarking on the
ship or aircraft for the voyage or flight to the United Kingdom,

76.5.4A.b

the owner or an employee or agent of the owner reasonably believed, on the
basis of information provided by the Secretary of State in respect of the
individual, that the individual did not require an entry clearance of the kind
in question,

76.5.4A.c

the owner or an employee or agent of the owner reasonably believed, on the
basis of information provided by the Secretary of State, that an entry
clearance in electronic form of the required kind had been granted, or

76.5.4A.d

the owner or an employee or agent of the owner was unable to establish whether
an entry clearance in electronic form of the required kind had been granted in
respect of the individual and had a reasonable excuse for being unable to do
so.

76.5.4B

No charge shall be payable on the basis that Case 3 applies in respect of any
individual if the owner provides evidence that the owner or an employee or
agent of the owner—

76.5.4B.a

reasonably believed, on the basis of information provided by the Secretary of
State in respect of the individual, that the individual was not required to
have an ETA that was valid for the individual’s journey to the United Kingdom,

76.5.4B.b

reasonably believed, on the basis of information provided by the Secretary of
State, that the individual had such an ETA, or

76.5.4B.c

was unable to establish whether the individual had such an ETA and had a
reasonable excuse for being unable to do so.

76.6

In subsection (5), for “subsection (4)” substitute  “subsection (4) or
(4A)(a)” .

76.7

In subsection (6), for “a visa”, in the first two places it occurs, substitute
“an entry clearance” .

76.8

In subsection (10), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “subsection (1)” .

76.9

In consequence of the amendments made by this section—

76.9.a

for the heading of section 40 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999
substitute  “Charge in respect of individual without proper documents or
authorisation” ;

76.9.b

for the italic heading before section 40 of that Act substitute  “Individuals
without proper documents or authorisation” .

#### Special Immigration Appeals Commission

77

77.1

The Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997 is amended in accordance
with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

77.2

After section 2E insert—

########## Jurisdiction: review of certain immigration decisions

77.2.2F

77.2.2F.1

Subsection (2) applies in relation to any decision of the Secretary of State
which—

77.2.2F.1.a

relates to a person’s entitlement to enter, reside in or remain in the United
Kingdom, or to a person’s removal from the United Kingdom,

77.2.2F.1.b

is not subject—

77.2.2F.1.b.i

to a right of appeal, or

77.2.2F.1.b.ii

to a right under a provision other than subsection (2) to apply to the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission for the decision to be set aside, and

77.2.2F.1.c

is certified by the Secretary of State acting in person as a decision that was
made wholly or partly in reliance on information which, in the opinion of the
Secretary of State, should not be made public—

77.2.2F.1.c.i

in the interests of national security,

77.2.2F.1.c.ii

in the interests of the relationship between the United Kingdom and another
country, or

77.2.2F.1.c.iii

otherwise in the public interest.

77.2.2F.2

The person to whom the decision relates may apply to the Special Immigration
Appeals Commission to set aside the decision.

77.2.2F.3

In determining whether the decision should be set aside, the Commission must
apply the principles which would be applied in judicial review proceedings.

77.2.2F.4

If the Commission decides that the decision should be set aside, it may make
any such order, or give any such relief, as may be made or given in judicial
review proceedings.

77.3

In section 6A (procedure in relation to jurisdiction under sections 2C to 2E)—

77.3.a

in the heading, for “2E” substitute  “2F” ,

77.3.b

in subsection (1), for “or 2E” substitute  “, 2E or 2F” ,

77.3.c

in subsection (2)(a), for “or 2E” substitute  “, 2E or 2F” , and

77.3.d

in subsection (2)(b), for “or (as the case may be) 2E(2)” substitute  “, 2E(2)
or (as the case may be) 2F(2)” .

77.4

In section 7 (appeals from the Commission), in subsection (1A), for “or 2E”
substitute  “, 2E or 2F” .

77.5

If subsection  (4)  comes into force before the day on which paragraph 26(5)
of Schedule 9 to the Immigration Act 2014 comes into force, until that day
subsection  (4)  has effect as if, in section 7(1A), for “or 2D” it
substituted  “, 2D or 2F” .

77.6

In section 115(8) of the Equality Act 2010 (immigration cases), for “section
2D and 2E” substitute  “section 2D, 2E or 2F” .

#### Counter-terrorism questioning of detained entrants away from place of arrival

78

78.1

Schedule 7 to the Terrorism Act 2000 (port and border controls) is amended as
follows.

78.2

In paragraph 1(2) (definitions), in the definition of “ship”, after
“hovercraft” insert  “and any floating vessel or structure” .

78.3

In paragraph 2 (power to question person about involvement in terrorism in
port or border area or on ship or aircraft), after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

78.3.3A

This paragraph also applies to a person if—

78.3.3A.a

the person is—

78.3.3A.a.i

being detained under a provision of the Immigration Acts, or

78.3.3A.a.ii

in custody having been arrested under paragraph 17(1) of Schedule 2 to the
Immigration Act 1971,

78.3.3A.b

the period of 5 days beginning with the day after the day on which the person
was apprehended has not yet expired, and

78.3.3A.c

the examining officer believes that—

78.3.3A.c.i

the person arrived in the United Kingdom by sea from a place outside the
United Kingdom, and

78.3.3A.c.ii

the person was apprehended within 24 hours of the person’s arrival on land.

78.3.3B

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3A)(b) and (c), a person is “apprehended”—

78.3.3B.a

in a case within sub-paragraph (3A)(a)(i) where the person is arrested (and
not released) before being detained as mentioned in that provision, when the
person is arrested;

78.3.3B.b

in any other case within sub-paragraph (3A)(a)(i), when the person is first
detained as mentioned in that provision;

78.3.3B.c

in a case within sub-paragraph (3A)(a)(ii), when the person is arrested as
mentioned in that provision.

#### References to justices of the peace in relation to Northern Ireland

79

79.1

In section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 (interpretation) at the
appropriate place insert—

      “ justice of the peace ”, in relation to Northern Ireland, means lay
magistrate;

.

79.2

In section 167(1) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (interpretation) at
the appropriate place insert—

      “ justice of the peace ”, in relation to Northern Ireland, means lay
magistrate;

.

79.3

In section 45 of the UK Borders Act 2007 (search for evidence of nationality:
other premises), after subsection (5) insert—

79.3.6

In the application of this section to Northern Ireland a reference to a
justice of the peace is to be treated as a reference to a lay magistrate.

#### Tribunal charging power in respect of wasted resources

80

80.1

After section 25 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 insert—

########## First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal: charging power in respect of wasted resources

80.1.25A

80.1.25A.1

If, in respect of proceedings before the First-tier Tribunal or Upper
Tribunal, the Tribunal considers that—

80.1.25A.1.a

a relevant participant has acted improperly, unreasonably or negligently, and

80.1.25A.1.b

as a result, the Tribunal’s resources have been wasted,

it may charge the participant an amount under this section.

80.1.25A.2

Subsection (1) is subject to Tribunal Procedure Rules.

80.1.25A.3

For the purposes of this section “relevant participant”, in respect of
proceedings, means—

80.1.25A.3.a

any person exercising a right of audience or right to conduct the proceedings
on behalf of a party to proceedings,

80.1.25A.3.b

any employee of such a person, or

80.1.25A.3.c

where the Secretary of State is a party to proceedings and has not instructed
a person mentioned in paragraph (a) to act on their behalf in the proceedings,
the Secretary of State.

80.1.25A.4

A person may be found to have acted improperly, unreasonably or negligently
for the purposes of subsection (1) by reason of having failed to act in a
particular way.

80.1.25A.5

The proceeds of amounts charged under this section must be paid into the
Consolidated Fund.

80.2

In Schedule 5 to that Act (procedure in First-tier Tribunal and Upper
Tribunal), after paragraph 11 insert—

########## Charges in respect of wasted resources

80.2.11A

80.2.11A.1

Rules may make provision for regulating matters relating to the charging of
amounts under section 25A (First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal: power to
charge in respect of wasted resources).

80.2.11A.2

The provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) includes (in particular)
provision prescribing scales of amounts that may be charged.

#### Tribunal Procedure Rules to be made in respect of costs orders etc

81

81.1

Tribunal Procedure Rules governing proceedings before the Tribunal (see
subsection  (4) ) must prescribe conduct that, in the absence of evidence to
the contrary, is to be treated as—

81.1.a

improper, unreasonable or negligent for the purposes of—

81.1.a.i

section 25A(1) of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 (charge in
respect of wasted resources);

81.1.a.ii

section 29(4) of that Act (wasted costs);

81.1.b

an unreasonable act for the purposes of section 29(3A) of that Act
(unreasonable costs orders).

81.2

Tribunal Procedure Rules must make provision to the effect that the Tribunal,
if satisfied that conduct prescribed under subsection (1) has taken place,
must consider whether to impose a charge or make an order in accordance with
the provisions mentioned in that subsection.

81.3

Nothing in Tribunal Procedure Rules may compel the Tribunal to impose a
charge, or make an order, mentioned in subsection (1) in relation to conduct
(whether or not that conduct is prescribed under that subsection).

81.4

In this section “ the Tribunal ” means the Immigration and Asylum Chamber of
the First-Tier Tribunal and of the Upper Tribunal (see Articles 2 and 9 of The
First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal (Chambers) Order 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2655
)).

81.5

In this section “ conduct ” includes acts and omissions.

81.6

In section 29 of the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007, after
subsection (3) insert—

81.6.3A

The relevant Tribunal may, in particular, make an order in respect of costs in
any proceedings mentioned in subsection (1), if it considers that a party or
its legal or other representative has acted unreasonably in bringing,
defending or conducting the proceedings.

#### Pre-consolidation amendments of immigration legislation

82

82.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such amendments and
modifications of the Acts relating to immigration as in the Secretary of
State’s opinion facilitate, or are otherwise desirable in connection with, the
consolidation of the whole or a substantial part of the Acts relating to
immigration.

82.2

The Acts relating to immigration are—

82.2.a

the Immigration Act 1971;

82.2.b

the Immigration Act 1988;

82.2.c

the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993;

82.2.d

the Asylum and Immigration Act 1996;

82.2.e

the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997;

82.2.f

the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999;

82.2.g

the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002;

82.2.h

the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004;

82.2.i

the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006;

82.2.j

the UK Borders Act 2007;

82.2.k

Parts 10 and 12 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008;

82.2.l

the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009;

82.2.m

section 147 of and Schedule 8 to the Anti-Social Behaviour, Crime and Policing
Act 2014;

82.2.n

the Immigration Act 2014;

82.2.o

the Immigration Act 2016;

82.2.p

Parts 1 and 3 of the Immigration and Social Security Co-ordination (EU
Withdrawal) Act 2020;

82.2.q

this Act, other than Part 1;

82.2.r

any other provision of an Act relating to immigration, whenever passed.

82.3

For the purposes of this section, “ amend ” includes repeal (and similar terms
are to be read accordingly).

82.4

Regulations made under this section do not come into force unless an Act is
passed consolidating the whole or a substantial part of the Acts relating to
immigration.

82.5

If such an Act is passed, any regulations made under this section come into
force immediately before the Act comes into force.

82.6

Regulations under this section are subject to affirmative resolution
procedure.

### General

#### Financial provision

83

The following are to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

83.a

expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by a Minister of the
Crown, and

83.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Transitional and consequential provision

84

84.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such transitional, transitory
or saving provision as the Secretary of State considers appropriate in
connection with the coming into force of any provision of this Act.

84.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make such provision as the Secretary
of State considers appropriate in consequence of this Act.

84.3

The provision that may be made by regulations under subsection (2) includes
provision amending, repealing or revoking any enactment.

84.4

“ Enactment ” includes—

84.4.a

an enactment contained in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978;

84.4.b

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament;

84.4.c

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru;

84.4.d

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation.

84.5

Regulations under subsection (2) that amend—

84.5.a

an Act of Parliament,

84.5.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

84.5.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

84.5.d

a Measure or Act of Senedd Cymru, or

84.5.e

Northern Ireland legislation,

are subject to affirmative resolution procedure.

84.6

Otherwise, regulations under subsection (2) are subject to negative resolution
procedure.

84.7

In section 61(2) of the UK Borders Act 2007 (meaning of “ the Immigration Acts
”)—

84.7.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (k), and

84.7.b

after paragraph (l) insert

, and

84.7.b.m

the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

#### Regulations

85

85.1

A power to make regulations under this Act is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

85.2

Regulations under this Act—

85.2.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

85.2.b

may make transitional, transitory or saving provision;

85.2.c

may make incidental, supplementary or consequential provision.

85.3

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “negative resolution
procedure” the statutory instrument containing the regulations is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

85.4

Where regulations under this Act are subject to “affirmative resolution
procedure” the regulations may not be made unless a draft of the instrument
containing them has been laid before and approved by a resolution of each
House of Parliament.

85.5

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act subject to
negative resolution procedure may instead be made by regulations under this
Act subject to affirmative resolution procedure.

85.6

Any provision that may be made by regulations under this Act for which no
Parliamentary procedure is prescribed may instead be made by regulations
subject to negative or affirmative resolution procedure.

#### Extent

86

86.1

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland, subject
as follows.

86.2

Any amendment, repeal or revocation made by this Act has the same extent
within the United Kingdom as the provision to which it relates.

86.3

Part 1 (nationality) also extends to the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man
and the British overseas territories within the meaning of the British
Nationality Act 1981 (see section 50(1) of that Act).

86.4

Her Majesty may by Order in Council provide for any of the provisions of this
Act to extend, with or without modifications, to any of the Channel Islands or
the Isle of Man.

86.5

A power under any provision listed in subsection (6) may be exercised so as to
extend (with or without modification) to any of the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man any amendment or repeal made by or under this Act of any part of
an Act to which the provision listed in subsection (6) relates.

86.6

Those provisions are—

86.6.a

section 36 of the Immigration Act 1971,

86.6.b

section 15(1) of the Asylum and Immigration Appeals Act 1993,

86.6.c

section 13(5) of the Asylum and Immigration Act 1996,

86.6.d

section 9(3) of the Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997,

86.6.e

section 170(7) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999,

86.6.f

section 163(4) of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002,

86.6.g

section 338 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003,

86.6.h

section 49(3) of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004,

86.6.i

section 63(3) of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006,

86.6.j

section 60(4) of the UK Borders Act 2007,

86.6.k

section 57(5) of the Borders, Citizenship and Immigration Act 2009,

86.6.l

section 76(6) of the Immigration Act 2014,

86.6.m

section 60(6) of the Modern Slavery Act 2015,

86.6.n

section 95(5) of the Immigration Act 2016, and

86.6.o

section 8(2) of the Immigration and Social Security (EU Withdrawal) Act 2020.

#### Commencement

87

87.1

Subject to subsections (3) to (5), this Act comes into force on such day as
the Secretary of State appoints by regulations.

87.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may appoint different days for different
purposes or areas.

87.3

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

87.3.a

section 10 (1)  and  (6)  to  (8)  (effect of failure to give notice of pre-
commencement decision to deprive a person of citizenship);

87.3.b

sections 70, 71 and 73 (visa penalties in relation to countries posing a risk
to international peace and security etc);

87.3.c

this Part.

87.4

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed for the purposes of making (and, where required, consulting on)
regulations—

87.4.a

section 14 (requirement to make asylum claim at “designated place”);

87.4.b

section 27 (accelerated detained appeals);

87.4.c

section 42 and Schedule 5 (penalty for failure to secure goods vehicle etc);

87.4.d

section 43 (working in United Kingdom waters: arrival and entry);

87.4.e

section 50 (persons subject to immigration control: referral or age assessment
by local authority);

87.4.f

section 52 (use of scientific methods in age assessments);

87.4.g

section 53 (regulations about age assessments);

87.4.h

section 69 (interpretation of Part 5);

87.4.i

section 82 (pre-consolidation amendments of immigration legislation).

87.5

The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

87.5.a

section 28 (claims certified as clearly unfounded: removal of right of
appeal);

87.5.b

paragraphs 5 to 19 of Schedule 4, and section 29 so far as it relates to those
paragraphs (removal of asylum seeker to safe third country);

87.5.c

section 30(1), (2) and (4) to (6) (Refugee Convention: general);

87.5.d

sections 31 to 36 and 38 (interpretation of Refugee Convention);

87.5.e

section 39 (interpretation of Part 2);

87.5.f

section 44 (power to search container);

87.5.g

section 49(1) to (4) (interpretation of Part 4);

87.5.h

sections 72 and 74 (visa penalties in relation to uncooperative countries);

87.5.i

section 78 (counter-terrorism questioning of detained entrants away from place
of arrival).

#### Short title

88

This Act may be cited as the Nationality and Borders Act 2022.

## SCHEDULES

Waiver of requirement of presence in UK etc

Section 9

##### Amendments to the British Nationality Act 1981

1

The British Nationality Act 1981 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 4 (acquisition by registration: British overseas territories citizens
etc) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (4)—

2.2.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

2.2.a.za

treat the person to whom the application relates as fulfilling the first
requirement specified in subsection (2)(a) although the person was not in the
United Kingdom at the beginning of the period there mentioned;

;

2.2.b

in paragraph (a), for “requirement specified in subsection (2)(a) or”
substitute  “second requirement specified in subsection (2)(a) or the
requirement specified in” .

2.3

After subsection (4) insert—

2.3.4A

Subsection  (4B)  applies where, on an application for registration as a
British citizen made by a person to whom this section applies, the applicant
has indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

2.3.4B

The Secretary of State may for the purposes of subsection (2) treat the
applicant as fulfilling the requirement specified in subsection (2)(d),
without enquiring into whether or not the applicant was in the United Kingdom
in breach of the immigration laws in the period there mentioned.

2.3.4C

The reference in subsection  (4A)  to having indefinite leave to enter or
remain is to be construed in accordance with the Immigration Act 1971.

3

3.1

Schedule 1 (requirements for naturalisation) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 2 (naturalisation as a British citizen under section 6(1): waiver
of requirements in special circumstances)—

3.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), before paragraph (a) insert—

3.2.a.za

treat the applicant as fulfilling the first requirement specified in paragraph
1(2)(a) although the applicant was not in the United Kingdom at the beginning
of the period there mentioned;

;

3.2.b

in that sub-paragraph, in paragraph (a), for “requirement specified in
paragraph 1(2)(a) or” substitute  “second requirement specified in paragraph
1(2)(a) or the requirement specified in” ;

3.2.c

after that sub-paragraph insert—

3.2.c.1A

Sub-paragraph (1B) applies where the applicant has indefinite leave to enter
or remain in the United Kingdom.

3.2.c.1B

The Secretary of State may for the purposes of paragraph 1 treat the applicant
as fulfilling the requirement specified in paragraph 1(2)(d), without
enquiring into whether or not the applicant was in the United Kingdom in
breach of the immigration laws in the period there mentioned.

3.2.c.1C

The reference in sub-paragraph (1A) to having indefinite leave to enter or
remain is to be construed in accordance with the Immigration Act 1971.

;

3.2.d

omit sub-paragraphs (2) and (3).

3.3

In paragraph 4, in paragraph (a)—

3.3.a

for “the reference” substitute  “the references” ;

3.3.b

for “a reference” substitute  “references” .

3.4

In paragraph 6 (naturalisation as a British overseas territories citizen under
section 18(1): waiver of requirements in special circumstances)—

3.4.a

the existing text becomes sub-paragraph (1);

3.4.b

before paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph insert—

3.4.b.za

treat the applicant as fulfilling the first requirement specified in paragraph
5(2)(a) although the applicant was not in the relevant territory at the
beginning of the period there mentioned;

;

3.4.c

in paragraph (a) of that sub-paragraph, for “requirement specified in
paragraph 5(2)(a) or” substitute  “second requirement specified in paragraph
5(2)(a) or the requirement specified in” ;

3.4.d

after that sub-paragraph insert—

3.4.d.2

Sub-paragraph (3) applies where the applicant has indefinite leave to enter or
remain in the relevant territory.

3.4.d.3

The Secretary of State may for the purposes of paragraph 5 treat the applicant
as fulfilling the requirement specified in paragraph 5(2)(d), without
enquiring into whether or not the applicant was in the relevant territory in
breach of the immigration laws in the period there mentioned.

3.4.d.4

The reference in sub-paragraph (2) to having indefinite leave to enter or
remain is to be construed as a reference to any status formally granted under
the immigration laws in force in the relevant territory which is broadly
equivalent to the status of having indefinite leave to enter or remain under
the Immigration Act 1971.

3.5

In paragraph 8, in paragraph (a)—

3.5.a

for “the reference” substitute  “the references” ;

3.5.b

for “a reference” substitute  “references” .

##### Consequential amendment

4

In section 1 of the Citizenship (Armed Forces) Act 2014 (applications for
citizenship by members or former members of armed forces), omit subsection
(3).

  Deprivation of Citizenship without notice: judicial oversight

Section 10(4)

  This is the Schedule to be inserted after Schedule 4 to the British
Nationality Act 1981—       SCHEDULE 4A     Deprivation of Citizenship without
notice: judicial oversight     Section 40(5E)       Deprivation without
notice: application to Special Immigration Appeals Commission     1       1
If the Secretary of State proposes to make a conducive grounds deprivation
order without notice, the Secretary of State may apply to the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission under this paragraph.         2     If the
Secretary of State makes a conducive grounds deprivation order without notice,
the Secretary of State must apply to the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission under this paragraph within the period of seven days beginning with
the day on which the order is made (unless an application has already been
made under sub-paragraph (1)).         3     The function of the Commission on
an application under this paragraph is to determine whether, in respect of
each condition in section 40(5A) on which the Secretary of State relies, the
Secretary of State’s view is obviously flawed.         4     In determining
that question, the Commission must apply the principles that would be
applicable on an application for judicial review.         5     If the
Commission determines that the Secretary of State’s view is obviously flawed
in respect of each condition in section 40(5A) on which the Secretary of State
relies—     a     if the order in question has not been made, section 40(5)
applies in relation to the order (notwithstanding section 40(5A));         b
if the order has been made, the Secretary of State must, within the period of
14 days beginning with the day on which the Commission made the determination—
i     give late notice in respect of the order,         ii     revoke the
order, or         iii     make an application under sub-paragraph (6).
6     The Secretary of State may (at any time) make an application to the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission for fresh consideration of a decision
the Secretary of State has made under section 40(5A) where—     a     in the
opinion of the Secretary of State, circumstances have changed materially since
the determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (5), or         b     the
Secretary of State wishes to provide further evidence to the Commission.
Sub-paragraphs (3) to (5) apply to an application under this sub-paragraph.
Deprivation of citizenship without notice: review     2       1     Sub-
paragraphs (2) to (5) apply if—     a     the Secretary of State makes a
conducive grounds deprivation order without notice, and         b     the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission has not made the determination
mentioned in paragraph 1(5) (Secretary of State’s decision obviously flawed).
2     The Secretary of State must, at least once in every review period,
review the circumstances of the person in respect of whom the order was made
(so far as known) and decide whether to give late notice in respect of the
order.         3     On such a review, the Secretary of State must decide to
give late notice to the person unless it appears to the Secretary of State
that any of the conditions in section 40(5A) is met (reading any reference in
those provisions to notice under section 40(5) as a reference to late notice).
4     If the Secretary of State decides at any point to give late notice in
respect of the order—     a     the Secretary of State must give the notice as
soon as reasonably practicable, and         b     once the notice is given,
sub-paragraph (2) ceases to apply in relation to the person.             5
If on the expiry of the final review period the Secretary of State has not
given, or has not decided to give, late notice in respect of the order, the
Secretary of State must make an application to the Special Immigration Appeals
Commission within the period of seven days beginning with the day after the
final day of that review period.         6     Sub-paragraphs (3) to (6) of
paragraph 1 (except sub-paragraph (5)(a)) apply for the purposes of an
application under sub-paragraph (5) as they apply for the purposes of an
application under that paragraph.         7     For the purposes of this
paragraph, each of the following is a “review period”—     a     the period of
four months beginning with the day after the day on which the Special
Immigration Appeals Commission first determined an application in relation to
the order under paragraph 1, and         b     each of the next five
successive periods of four months.                   Interpretation     3
1     In this Schedule, references to making a conducive grounds deprivation
order without notice are to making an order under section 40(2) without giving
notice under subsection (5) of that section (in reliance on subsection (5A) of
that section).         2     In this Schedule, “late notice”, in respect of an
order under section 40(5), means written notice to the person in respect of
whom the order was made specifying—     a     that the Secretary of State has
made the order,         b     the reasons for the order, and         c     the
person’s right of appeal under section 40A(1) or under section 2B of the
Special Immigration Appeals Commission Act 1997.

  Expedited appeals where priority removal notice served: consequential
amendments

Section 23

1

The Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 is amended in accordance with
paragraphs 2 to 6.

2

In section 85 (matters to be considered on appeal)—

2.a

in subsections (1), (2) and (4), after “the Tribunal” insert  “or the Upper
Tribunal” ;

2.b

in subsection (5)—

2.b.i

after “the Tribunal”, in the first place it appears, insert  “or the Upper
Tribunal” ;

2.b.ii

for “the Tribunal”, in the second place it appears, substitute  “the tribunal
concerned” .

3

In section 86 (determination of appeal), in subsection (2), after “the
Tribunal” insert  “or the Upper Tribunal” .

4

In section 106 (tribunal procedure rules), in subsections (3) and (4), after
“the Tribunal” insert  “or the Upper Tribunal” .

5

In section 107 (practice directions)—

5.a

before subsection (3) insert—

5.a.2A

Subsection (3) applies to—

5.a.2A.a

proceedings under section 82 in the Tribunal or proceedings in the Upper
Tribunal arising out of such proceedings;

5.a.2A.b

proceedings under section 82 in the Upper Tribunal (see section 82A and
section 24 of the Nationality and Borders Act 2022).

;

5.b

in subsection (3), for the words from “under section 82” to “such proceedings”
substitute  “to which this subsection applies” .

6

In section 108 (forged document: proceedings in private), in subsection (2),
after “The Tribunal” insert  “or the Upper Tribunal” .

7

In section 8 of the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004 (claimant’s credibility), in subsection (9A)—

7.a

for the words from the beginning to “subsection (7) the” substitute  “In this
section a” ;

7.b

after “acting” insert

—

7.b.a



;

7.c

at the end insert

, or

7.c.b

in relation to—

7.c.b.i

an expedited appeal within the meaning of section 82A of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002, or

7.c.b.ii

an expedited related appeal within the meaning of section 24 of the
Nationality and Borders Act 2022 that involves an asylum claim or a human
rights claim.

Removal of asylum seeker to safe country

Section 29

##### Amendments to section 77 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002

1

In section 77 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (no removal
while claim for asylum pending), after subsection (2) insert—

1.2A

This section does not prevent a person being removed to, or being required to
leave to go to, a State falling within subsection (2B).

1.2B

A State falls within this subsection if—

1.2B.a

it is a place where a person’s life and liberty are not threatened by reason
of the person’s race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social
group or political opinion,

1.2B.b

it is a place from which a person will not be removed elsewhere other than in
accordance with the Refugee Convention,

1.2B.c

it is a place—

1.2B.c.i

to which a person can be removed without their Convention rights under Article
3 (no torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment) being
contravened, and

1.2B.c.ii

from which a person will not be sent to another State in contravention of the
person’s Convention rights, and

1.2B.d

the person is not a national or citizen of the State.

1.2C

For the purposes of this section—

1.2C.a

any State to which Part 2 or 3 of Schedule 3 to the Asylum and Immigration
(Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004 for the time being applies—

1.2C.a.i

is to be presumed to be a State falling within subsection (2B)(a) and (b), and

1.2C.a.ii

is, unless the contrary is shown by a person to be the case in their
particular circumstances, to be presumed to be a State falling within
subsection (2B)(c)(i) and (ii);

1.2C.b

any State to which Part 4 of that Schedule for the time being applies is to be
presumed to be a State falling within subsection (2B)(a) and (b);

1.2C.c

a reference to anything being done in accordance with the Refugee Convention
is a reference to the thing being done in accordance with the principles of
the Convention, whether or not by a signatory to it;

1.2C.d

“ State ” includes any territory outside of the United Kingdom.

2

In subsection (3) of that section, for “subsection (2)” substitute  “this
section, “ Convention rights ” means the rights identified as Convention
rights by section 1 of the Human Rights Act 1998 (whether or not in relation
to a State that is a party to the Convention); and” .

##### Amendments to Schedule 3 to the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act 2004: introductory

3

Schedule 3 to the Asylum and Immigration (Treatment of Claimants, etc) Act
2004 (the “ 2004 Act ”) (removal of asylum seeker to safe country) is amended
as follows.

##### Amendments consequential on amendments to section 77 of the 2002 Act

4

Omit paragraphs 4, 9, 14 and 18.

##### Rebuttable presumption of safety of specified countries in relation to Convention rights

5

5.1

Paragraph 3 (presumptions of safety) is amended as follows.

5.2

In sub-paragraph (1), in the opening words, after “human rights claim” insert
“(the “claimant”)” .

5.3

After sub-paragraph (1) insert—

5.3.1A

Unless the contrary is shown by the claimant to be the case in their
particular circumstances, a State to which this Part applies is to be treated,
in so far as relevant to the question mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), as a
place—

5.3.1A.a

to which a person can be removed without their Convention rights under Article
3 (no torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment) being
contravened, and

5.3.1A.b

from which a person will not be sent to another State in contravention of
their Convention rights.

5.4

In sub-paragraph (2), omit paragraph (b) (but not the final “and”).

6

In paragraph 5 (in country appeals in cases of removal to safe country)—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (3), omit paragraph (b) (together with the preceding “or”);

6.b

in sub-paragraph (4), in both places they appear, omit the words “to which
this sub-paragraph applies”;

6.c

omit sub-paragraph (5).

##### Safe countries

7

In paragraph 1(1) (definitions), after the definition of “the Refugee
Convention”, insert—

“ State ” includes any territory outside of the United Kingdom.

8

In paragraph 2 (countries to which presumptions of safety in Part 2 of
Schedule 3 apply)—

8.a

after paragraph (ba) insert—

8.a.bb

Republic of Croatia,

;

8.b

after paragraph (o) insert—

8.b.oa

Principality of Liechtenstein,

.

9

In paragraph 20(1) (powers to amend list of safe countries by order)—

9.a

the words from “add a State” to the end become paragraph (a);

9.b

after that paragraph (a) insert

, or

9.b.b

remove a State from that list.

10

In paragraph 21 (procedure for orders under paragraph 20)—

10.a

in sub-paragraph (1), in the opening words, for “20(1)” substitute  “20(1)(a)”
;

10.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the opening words, for “20(2)(b)” substitute
“20(1)(b) or (2)(b)” .

##### Appeal rights

11

In paragraph 5 (appeal rights where person certified for removal to State to
which Part 2 applies) in sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), omit “from within the
United Kingdom”.

12

Omit paragraph 6 (no out of country appeal rights).

13

In paragraph 10 (appeal rights where person certified for removal to State to
which Part 3 applies), in sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), omit “from within the
United Kingdom”.

14

Omit paragraph 11 (no out of country appeal rights).

15

In paragraph 15 (appeal rights where person certified for removal to State to
which Part 4 applies), in sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), omit “from within the
United Kingdom”.

16

Omit paragraph 16 (no out of country appeal rights).

17

In paragraph 19 (appeal rights where person certified for removal to a State
safe for that person)—

17.a

in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c), omit “from within the United Kingdom”;

17.b

omit sub-paragraph (d).

##### Consequential amendments

18

In section 92 of the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 (place from
which an appeal may be brought), omit—

18.a

subsection (2)(b) (and the preceding “or”);

18.b

subsection (3)(b) (and the preceding “or”).

##### Transitional provision

19

19.1

The amendments made by paragraph  6  do not apply to a case in which the
Secretary of State made the certification under paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 3
to the 2004 Act before the coming into force of paragraph 6 of this Schedule.

19.2

The amendments made by paragraphs  11 ,  13 ,  15  and  17  to the following
provisions of Schedule 3 to the 2004 Act do not apply to a case in which the
claim was certified as clearly unfounded by the Secretary of State before the
coming into force of those paragraphs—

19.2.a

paragraph 5(4);

19.2.b

paragraph 10(4);

19.2.c

paragraph 15(4);

19.2.d

paragraph 19(c).

  Penalty for failure to secure goods vehicle etc

Section 42

1

Part 2 of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 (carriers’ liability) is amended
as follows.

2

For the italic heading before section 32 substitute  “Penalties for failure to
secure goods vehicle and for carrying clandestine entrants” .

3

Before section 32 (but after the italic heading before that section) insert—

######## Penalty for failure to secure goods vehicle etc

3.31A

3.31A.1

The Secretary of State may impose a penalty on a person responsible for a
goods vehicle which has arrived at a place mentioned in subsection  (2)  if—

3.31A.1.a

on its arrival at that place, the vehicle is not adequately secured against
unauthorised access (see subsection  (4) (a)), and

3.31A.1.b

the person has not taken the actions specified in regulations under subsection
(4) (b) as actions to be taken by that person in relation to the securing of
the vehicle against unauthorised access before or during its journey to that
place.

3.31A.2

Those places are—

3.31A.2.a

a place where immigration control is operated, and

3.31A.2.b

in a case where the vehicle previously arrived at a place outside the United
Kingdom where immigration control is operated and then journeyed to a place in
the United Kingdom, that place in the United Kingdom.

3.31A.3

A penalty may be imposed under subsection  (1)  regardless of whether any
person has obtained unauthorised access to the vehicle during its journey to
the place mentioned in subsection  (2) .

3.31A.4

The Secretary of State must specify in regulations for the purposes of
subsection  (1) —

3.31A.4.a

what is meant by a goods vehicle being adequately secured against unauthorised
access, and

3.31A.4.b

the actions to be taken by each person responsible for a goods vehicle in
relation to the securing of the vehicle against unauthorised access.

3.31A.5

The actions that may be specified in regulations under subsection  (4) (b)
include, in particular—

3.31A.5.a

actions in relation to checking a person has not gained unauthorised access to
the vehicle,

3.31A.5.b

actions in relation to the reporting of any unauthorised access to the
vehicle, and

3.31A.5.c

actions in relation to the keeping of records to establish that other actions
specified in the regulations have been taken.

3.31A.6

Before making regulations under subsection  (4) , the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

3.31A.7

In imposing a penalty under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State—

3.31A.7.a

must specify an amount which does not exceed the maximum prescribed for the
purpose of this paragraph,

3.31A.7.b

may impose separate penalties on more than one of the persons responsible for
a goods vehicle, and

3.31A.7.c

may not impose penalties which amount in aggregate to more than the maximum
prescribed for the purpose of this paragraph.

3.31A.8

A penalty imposed under subsection  (1)  must be paid to the Secretary of
State before the end of the prescribed period.

3.31A.9

A person is not liable to the imposition of a penalty under subsection  (1)
if that person’s failure to take the actions specified in regulations under
subsection (4)(b) was as a result of duress.

3.31A.10

If a penalty is imposed under subsection  (1)  in relation to the arrival of a
goods vehicle in a place outside the United Kingdom where immigration control
is operated, a penalty may not be imposed in relation to the vehicle’s arrival
in the United Kingdom as part of the same journey.

3.31A.11

A penalty may not be imposed on a person under subsection  (1)  if a penalty
is imposed on that person under section 32(2) in respect of the same
circumstances.

3.31A.12

Where a penalty is imposed under subsection  (1)  on a person who is the
driver of a goods vehicle pursuant to a contract (whether or not a contract of
employment) with a person (“ P ”) who is the vehicle’s owner or hirer—

3.31A.12.a

the driver and P are jointly and severally liable for the penalty imposed on
the driver (whether or not a penalty is also imposed on P), and

3.31A.12.b

a provision of this Part about notification, objection or appeal has effect as
if the penalty imposed on the driver were also imposed on P (whether or not a
penalty is also imposed on P in P’s capacity as the owner or hirer of the
vehicle).

3.31A.13

In the case of a detached trailer, subsection  (12)  has effect as if a
reference to the driver were a reference to the operator.

3.31A.14

For the purposes of this section the persons responsible for a goods vehicle
are—

3.31A.14.a

if the goods vehicle is a detached trailer, the owner, hirer and operator of
the trailer, and

3.31A.14.b

if it is not, the owner, hirer and driver of the vehicle.

3.31A.15

Where by virtue of subsection  (14)  a person is responsible for a goods
vehicle in more than one capacity, a separate penalty may be imposed on the
person under subsection  (1)  in respect of each capacity.

3.31A.16

In this section “ immigration control ” means United Kingdom immigration
control and includes any United Kingdom immigration control operated in a
prescribed control zone outside the United Kingdom.

4

4.1

Section 32 (penalty for carrying clandestine entrants) is amended as follows.

4.2

After subsection (2A) insert—

4.2.2B

The Secretary of State may reduce the amount of a penalty under this section
if the responsible person can show that they took the actions specified in
regulations under subsection (2C) in relation to the securing of the
transporter against unauthorised access.

4.2.2C

The Secretary of State must specify in regulations the actions that a
responsible person must have taken in order to be eligible for a reduction in
the amount of a penalty.

4.2.2D

The actions that may be specified in regulations under subsection (2C)
include, in particular—

4.2.2D.a

actions in relation to checking a person has not gained unauthorised access to
the transporter,

4.2.2D.b

actions in relation to the reporting of any unauthorised access to the
transporter, and

4.2.2D.c

actions in relation to the keeping of records to establish that other actions
specified in the regulations have been taken.

4.2.2E

Before making regulations under subsection (2C), the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

4.3

For subsection (4) substitute—

4.3.4

Where a penalty is imposed under subsection (2) on a person who is the driver
of a vehicle pursuant to a contract (whether or not a contract of employment)
with a person (“ P ”) who is the vehicle’s owner or hirer—

4.3.4.a

the driver and P are jointly and severally liable for the penalty imposed on
the driver (whether or not a penalty is also imposed on P), and

4.3.4.b

a provision of this Part about notification, objection or appeal has effect as
if the penalty imposed on the driver were also imposed on P (whether or not a
penalty is also imposed on P in P’s capacity as the owner or hirer of the
vehicle).

4.4

After subsection (6A) insert—

4.4.6B

A penalty may not be imposed on a person under subsection (2) if a penalty is
imposed on that person under section 31A (1)  in respect of the same
circumstances.

5

5.1

Section 32A (level of penalty: code of practice) is amended as follows.

5.2

Before subsection (1) insert—

5.2.A1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice specifying matters to be
considered in determining the amount of a penalty under section 31A.

5.2.B1

The Secretary of State must have regard to the code (in addition to any other
matters the Secretary of State thinks relevant)—

5.2.B1.a

when imposing a penalty under section 31A, and

5.2.B1.b

when considering a notice of objection under section 35(4) in relation to a
penalty under section 31A.

5.3

In subsection (2)(b), after “35(4)” insert  “in relation to a penalty under
section 32” .

5.4

In subsection (3) for “the code” substitute  “a code under this section” .

5.5

In subsection (4) for “the draft code” substitute  “a draft code” .

5.6

In subsection (5) for “the code” in the first place it occurs substitute  “a
code under this section” .

5.7

In subsection (6) for “the code” substitute  “a code” .

6

Omit section 33 (prevention of clandestine entrants: code of practice).

7

7.1

Section 34 (defences to claim that penalty is due under section 32) is amended
as follows.

7.2

Omit subsection (3).

7.3

In subsection (3A)—

7.3.a

at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “and” ,

7.3.b

for paragraph (c) substitute—

7.3.b.c

the carrier had taken the actions specified in regulations under subsection
(3B) in relation to the securing of the wagon against unauthorised access.

, and

7.3.c

omit paragraph (d).

7.4

After subsection (3A) insert—

7.4.3B

The Secretary of State must specify in regulations the actions to be taken for
the purposes of subsection (3A)(c) in relation to the securing of a rail
freight wagon against unauthorised access.

7.4.3C

The actions that may be specified in regulations under subsection (3B)
include, in particular—

7.4.3C.a

actions in relation to checking a person has not gained unauthorised access to
the wagon,

7.4.3C.b

actions in relation to the reporting of any unauthorised access to the wagon,
and

7.4.3C.c

actions in relation to the keeping of records to establish that other actions
specified in the regulations have been taken.

7.4.3D

Before making regulations under subsection (3B), the Secretary of State must
consult such persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

7.5

Omit subsection (4).

8

8.1

Section 35 (procedure for penalties and objections against penalties) is
amended as follows.

8.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.3

In subsection (1) after “section” insert  “31A or” .

8.4

In subsection (2)—

8.4.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (c), and

8.4.b

at the end of paragraph (d) insert

and

8.4.b.e

be issued before the end of such period as may be prescribed.

8.5

In subsection (10) after “section” insert  “31A or” .

8.6

In subsection (12)—

8.6.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (c), and

8.6.b

after paragraph (c) insert—

8.6.b.ca

by electronic mail, or

.

9

9.1

Section 35A (appeals) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1) after “section” insert  “31A or” .

9.3

In subsection (3)—

9.3.a

at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and” , and

9.3.b

omit paragraph (b) and the “and” at the end of that paragraph.

10

10.1

Section 36 (power to detain vehicles etc in connection with penalties under
section 32) is amended as follows.

10.2

In the heading, after “section” insert  “31A or” .

10.3

In subsection (2A)(a), for “is an employee of its owner or hirer” substitute
“drives the vehicle pursuant to a contract (whether or not a contract of
employment) with the owner or hirer of the vehicle” .

10.4

After subsection (2A) insert—

10.4.2AA

In the case of a detached trailer, subsection (2A) has effect as if—

10.4.2AA.a

a reference to the driver were a reference to the operator, and

10.4.2AA.b

the reference to driving the vehicle were a reference to operating it.

10.5

After subsection (5) insert—

10.5.6

A document which is to be issued to or served on a person outside the United
Kingdom for the purposes of this section may be issued or served—

10.5.6.a

in person,

10.5.6.b

by post,

10.5.6.c

by facsimile transmission,

10.5.6.d

by electronic mail, or

10.5.6.e

in another prescribed manner.

10.5.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that a document issued or
served in a manner listed in subsection (6) in accordance with the regulations
is to be taken to have been received at a time specified by or determined in
accordance with the regulations.

11

11.1

Section 36A (detention in default of payment) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (4)(b), for “was an employee of” substitute  “drove the vehicle
pursuant to a contract (whether or not a contract of employment) with” .

11.3

After subsection (4) insert—

11.3.4A

In the case of a detached trailer, subsection (4)(b) has effect as if the
reference to driving the vehicle were a reference to operating it.

11.4

After subsection (6) insert—

11.4.7

If a transporter is detained under this section, the owner, consignor or any
other person who has an interest in any freight or other thing carried in or
on the transporter may remove it, or arrange for it to be removed, at such
time and in such way as is reasonable.

11.4.8

The detention of a transporter under this section is lawful even though it is
subsequently established that the penalty notice on which the detention was
based was ill-founded in respect of all or any of the penalties to which it
related.

11.4.9

But subsection (8) does not apply if the Secretary of State was acting
unreasonably in issuing the penalty notice.

11.4.10

A document which is to be issued to or served on a person outside the United
Kingdom for the purposes of this section may be issued or served—

11.4.10.a

in person,

11.4.10.b

by post,

11.4.10.c

by facsimile transmission,

11.4.10.d

by electronic mail, or

11.4.10.e

in another prescribed manner.

11.4.11

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide that a document issued or
served in a manner listed in subsection (10) in accordance with the
regulations is to be taken to have been received at a time specified by or
determined in accordance with the regulations.

12

12.1

Section 43 (interpretation of Part 2) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsection (1)—

12.2.a

at the appropriate place insert—

      “ goods vehicle ” means—         a mechanically propelled vehicle which—
is designed or adapted solely or principally to be used for the carriage or
haulage of goods, and           at the time in question, is being used for a
commercial purpose, or                 any trailer, semi-trailer or other
thing which—         is designed or adapted to be towed by a vehicle within
paragraph (a)(i), and           at the time in question, is being used for a
commercial purpose;

, and

12.2.b

in the definition of “transporter” after “vehicle” insert  “(including a goods
vehicle)” .

12.3

After subsection (1) insert—

12.3.1A

References in this Part to the securing of a goods vehicle against
unauthorised access include references to the securing of any container which
is being carried by a goods vehicle against unauthorised access.

12.3.1B

In subsection (1A) “ container ” means any container or other thing which is
designed or adapted to be carried by a goods vehicle.

  Working in United Kingdom waters: consequential and related amendments

Section 43(2)

##### Immigration Act 1971 (c. 77)

1

The Immigration Act 1971 is amended as follows.

2

In section 8 (exceptions for seamen etc), after subsection (1) insert—

2.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to a member of the crew of a ship
who is an offshore worker within the meaning of section 11A.

3

In section 11 (references to entry etc), after subsection (1) insert—

3.1ZA

See also section 11A (additional means by which persons arriving in United
Kingdom waters for work can enter the UK).

4

In section 28 (proceedings for offences)—

4.a

before subsection (1) insert—

4.a.A1

Proceedings for an offence under this Part that is committed in the
territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom may be taken, and the offence
may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been committed, in any
place in the United Kingdom.

;

4.b

in subsection (2A), for “section 25 or 25A” substitute  “this Part” .

5

In section 28L (interpretation of Part 3) —

5.a

in subsection (1), at the beginning insert  “Subject to subsection (1A)” ;

5.b

after subsection (1) insert—

5.b.1A

In this Part “premises” also includes any artificial island, installation or
structure (including one in the territorial sea adjacent to the United
Kingdom).

6

In section 28M (enforcement powers in relation to ships: England and Wales),
in subsection (2)(a)—

6.a

for “section” substitute—

6.a.i

section 24B,

;

6.b

for “, and” substitute

, or

6.b.ii

section 21 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, and

.

7

In section 28N (enforcement powers in relation to ships: Scotland), in
subsection (2)(a)—

7.a

for “section” substitute—

7.a.i

section 24B,

;

7.b

for “, and” substitute

, or

7.b.ii

section 21 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, and

.

8

In section 28O (enforcement powers in relation to ships: Northern Ireland), in
subsection (2)(a)—

8.a

for “section” substitute—

8.a.i

section 24B,

;

8.b

for “, and” substitute

, or

8.b.ii

section 21 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, and

.

9

9.1

Schedule 2 (administrative provision as to control on entry etc) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In paragraph 2—

9.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from “who have” to “United Kingdom)”
substitute  “within sub-paragraph (1A)” ;

9.2.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

9.2.b.1A

The persons are—

9.2.b.1A.a

any person who has arrived in the United Kingdom by ship or aircraft
(including transit passengers, members of the crew and others not seeking to
enter the United Kingdom);

9.2.b.1A.b

any person who has arrived in United Kingdom waters by ship or aircraft who
the immigration officer has reason to believe is an offshore worker.

9.2.b.1B

In sub-paragraph (1A), “ offshore worker ” and “ United Kingdom waters ” have
the same meaning as in section 11A.

9.3

In paragraph 27—

9.3.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

9.3.a.1A

Sub-paragraph (1) also applies to the captain of a ship or aircraft arriving
in United Kingdom waters if—

9.3.a.1A.a

there are offshore workers on board, or

9.3.a.1A.b

an immigration officer has informed the captain that they wish to examine any
person on board in the exercise of the power under paragraph 2.

9.3.a.1B

In sub-paragraph (1A), “ offshore worker ” and “ United Kingdom waters ” have
the same meaning as in section 11A.

9.4

In paragraph 27B—

9.4.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

9.4.a.1A

This paragraph also applies to ships or aircraft—

9.4.a.1A.a

which have offshore workers on board, and

9.4.a.1A.b

which—

9.4.a.1A.b.i

have arrived, or are expected to arrive, in United Kingdom waters, or

9.4.a.1A.b.ii

have left, or are expected to leave, United Kingdom waters.

;

9.4.b

after sub-paragraph (9A) insert—

9.4.b.9B

“ Offshore worker ” and “ United Kingdom waters ” have the same meaning in
this paragraph as in section 11A.

9.5

In paragraph 27BA—

9.5.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

9.5.a.1A

The Secretary of State may also make regulations requiring responsible persons
in respect of ships or aircraft—

9.5.a.1A.a

which have offshore workers on board, and

9.5.a.1A.b

which—

9.5.a.1A.b.i

have arrived, or are expected to arrive, in United Kingdom waters, or

9.5.a.1A.b.ii

have left, or are expected to leave, United Kingdom waters,

to supply information to the Secretary of State or an immigration officer.

;

9.5.b

in sub-paragraph (2), after “(1)” insert  “or (1A)” ;

9.5.c

after sub-paragraph (5) insert—

9.5.c.5A

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ offshore workers ” and “ United Kingdom
waters ” have the same meaning as in section 11A.

10

10.1

Schedule 4A (maritime enforcement powers) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 1(2), after the opening words insert—

“ the 2006 Act ” means the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006;

.

10.3

In paragraph 2(1)(a), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act
or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.4

In paragraph 3(1)(a), for “25, 25A and 25B” substitute  “24B, 25, 25A or 25B
of this Act or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.5

In paragraph 4(1), for “25, 25A or 25B” substitute  “24B, 25, 25A or 25B of
this Act or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.6

In paragraph 12(2), after the opening words insert—

“ the 2006 Act ” means the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006;

.

10.7

In paragraph 13(1)(a), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act
or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.8

In paragraph 14(1)(a), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act
or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.9

In paragraph 15(1), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act or
section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.10

In paragraph 23(2), after the opening words insert—

“ the 2006 Act ” means the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006;

.

10.11

In paragraph 24(1)(a), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act
or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.12

In paragraph 25(1)(a), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act
or section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

10.13

In paragraph 26(1), for “25 or 25A” substitute  “24B, 25 or 25A of this Act or
section 21 of the 2006 Act” .

##### Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 (c. 13)

11

In section 21 of the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006 (offence of
employing a person who is disqualified from employment by their immigration
status), after subsection (3) insert—

11.3A

Proceedings for an offence under this section that is committed in the
territorial sea adjacent to the United Kingdom may be taken, and the offence
may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been committed, in any
place in the United Kingdom.

11.3B

Section 3 of the Territorial Waters Jurisdiction Act 1878 (consent of
Secretary of State for certain prosecutions) does not apply to proceedings for
an offence under this section.

  Maritime enforcement

Section 45

1

Part 3A of the Immigration Act 1971 (maritime enforcement) is amended as
follows.

2

Before section 28M insert—

######## Enforcement powers in relation to ships: United Kingdom

2.28LA

2.28LA.1

An immigration officer or an enforcement officer may exercise the powers set
out in Part A1 of Schedule 4A (“Part A1 powers”) in relation to any of the
following in United Kingdom waters, foreign waters or international waters—

2.28LA.1.a

a United Kingdom ship;

2.28LA.1.b

a ship without nationality;

2.28LA.1.c

a foreign ship;

2.28LA.1.d

a ship registered under the law of a relevant territory.

2.28LA.2

But Part A1 powers may be exercised only—

2.28LA.2.a

for the purpose of preventing, detecting, investigating or prosecuting a
relevant offence, and

2.28LA.2.b

in accordance with the rest of this section.

2.28LA.3

The authority of the Secretary of State is required before an immigration
officer or an enforcement officer may exercise Part A1 powers in relation to—

2.28LA.3.a

a United Kingdom ship in foreign waters,

2.28LA.3.b

a ship without nationality,

2.28LA.3.c

a foreign ship, or

2.28LA.3.d

a ship registered under the law of a relevant territory.

3

In section 28M (enforcement powers in relation to ships: England and Wales)—

3.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “An English and Welsh constable” , and

3.b

in subsection (3)—

3.b.i

omit “an immigration officer,”, and

3.b.ii

omit “or an enforcement officer”.

4

In section 28N (enforcement powers in relation to ships: Scotland)—

4.a

in subsection (1) for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “A Scottish constable” , and

4.b

in subsection (3)—

4.b.i

omit “an immigration officer,”, and

4.b.ii

omit “or an enforcement officer”.

5

In section 28O (enforcement powers in relation to ships: Northern Ireland)—

5.a

in subsection (1) for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “A Northern Ireland constable” , and

5.b

in subsection (3)—

5.b.i

omit “an immigration officer,”, and

5.b.ii

omit “or an enforcement officer”.

6

In section 28P (hot pursuit of ships in United Kingdom waters)—

6.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “An English and Welsh constable” ,

6.b

in subsection (3), for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “A Scottish constable” ,

6.c

in subsection (5), for the words from “An immigration officer” to “enforcement
officer” substitute  “A Northern Ireland constable” , and

6.d

in subsection (10), omit “or an enforcement officer”.

7

After section 28P insert—

######## Power to seize and dispose of ships etc.

7.28PA

7.28PA.1

This section applies if—

7.28PA.1.a

an immigration officer has reasonable grounds to suspect that a ship has been
used in the commission of a relevant offence, and

7.28PA.1.b

the ship is in United Kingdom waters or otherwise in the United Kingdom.

7.28PA.2

Subject to subsection  (3) , the immigration officer may seize the ship and
any property relating to the operation or use of the ship.

7.28PA.3

The authority of the Secretary of State is required before an immigration
officer may seize anything under this section.

7.28PA.4

If an immigration officer seizes a foreign ship or a ship registered under the
law of a relevant territory, the Secretary of State must notify the home state
or relevant territory in question that the ship has been seized.

7.28PA.5

In subsection  (4)  “ home state ”, in relation to a foreign ship, means—

7.28PA.5.a

the State in which the ship is registered, or

7.28PA.5.b

the State whose flag the ship is otherwise entitled to fly.

7.28PA.6

Where a ship without nationality, or property relating to the operation or use
of a ship without nationality, is seized under this section—

7.28PA.6.a

section 26 of the UK Borders Act 2007 (disposal of property) and any
regulations made under that section do not apply in respect of that ship or
other property, and

7.28PA.6.b

subsections  (7)  to  (12)  apply instead.

7.28PA.7

The Secretary of State may—

7.28PA.7.a

return the ship or other property to the person whom the Secretary of State
believes to be its owner, or

7.28PA.7.b

after the relevant period—

7.28PA.7.b.i

dispose of the ship or other property, or

7.28PA.7.b.ii

determine that the ship or other property is to be retained to be used in the
course of, or in connection with, a function under the Immigration Acts.

7.28PA.8

On the making of a determination under subsection  (7)(b)(ii) , the ship or
other property vests in the Secretary of State.

7.28PA.9

The relevant period is the period of 31 days beginning with the date on which
the ship or other property was seized.

7.28PA.10

Before exercising a power under subsection  (7)(b) , the Secretary of State
must make reasonable efforts to—

7.28PA.10.a

ascertain the identity of the owner of the ship or other property, and

7.28PA.10.b

subject to subsection  (11) , notify that person that the ship or other
property has been seized.

7.28PA.11

The Secretary of State is not required to notify a person under subsection
(10)(b)  if to do so may prejudice any criminal investigation or criminal
proceedings.

7.28PA.12

Disposal under this section may be in any manner the Secretary of State thinks
fit, including—

7.28PA.12.a

by sale;

7.28PA.12.b

by dismantling;

7.28PA.12.c

by destruction;

7.28PA.12.d

by donation of the ship or other property to a charity or other not-for-profit
body.

8

In section 28Q (interpretation of Part 3A)—

8.a

at the appropriate places insert—

      “ foreign waters ” means the sea and other waters within the seaward
limits of the territorial sea adjacent to any relevant territory or any State
other than the United Kingdom;

,

      “ international waters ” means waters beyond the territorial sea of the
United Kingdom or of any other State or relevant territory;

,

      “ Part A1 powers ” means the powers set out in Part A1 of Schedule 4A;

,

      “ relevant offence ” means—         an offence under section 24(A1),
(B1), (D1) or (E1), 24B, 25 or 25A,           an offence under section 25B to
the extent that the section continues to apply by virtue of regulation 5(7) of
the Immigration and Social Security Co-ordination (EU Withdrawal) Act 2020
(Consequential, Saving, Transitional and Transitory Provisions) (EU Exit)
Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/1309 ),           an offence under section 21 of
the Immigration, Asylum and Nationality Act 2006, or           an offence
under section 1 of the Criminal Attempts Act 1981 or Article 3 of the Criminal
Attempts and Conspiracy (Northern Ireland) Order 1983 ( S.I. 1983/1120 (N.I.
13) ), or in Scotland at common law, of attempting to commit an offence
mentioned in paragraph (a) to (c);”, and

,

      “ United Kingdom waters ” means the sea and other waters within the
seaward limits of the United Kingdom’s territorial sea;

, and

8.b

for the definition of ship substitute—

      “ ship ” includes—         every description of vessel (including a
hovercraft), and           any other structure (whether with or without means
of propulsion) constructed or used to carry persons, goods, plant or machinery
by water;

.

9

Schedule 4A (enforcement powers in relation to ships) is amended as follows.

10

Before Part 1, insert—

######## United Kingdom

######### Introductory

10.A1

10.A1.1

This Part of this Schedule sets out the powers exercisable by immigration
officers and enforcement officers (referred to in this Part of this Schedule
as “ relevant officers ”) under section 28LA.

10.A1.2

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ items subject to legal privilege ” means items in respect of which a
claim to legal professional privilege (in Scotland, to confidentiality of
communications) could be maintained in legal proceedings;           “ the ship
” means the ship in relation to which the powers set out in this Part of this
Schedule are exercised.

######### Power to stop, board, divert and detain

10.B1

10.B1.1

This paragraph applies if a relevant officer has reasonable grounds to suspect
that—

10.B1.1.a

a relevant offence is being, or has been, committed on the ship, or

10.B1.1.b

the ship is otherwise being used in connection with the commission of a
relevant offence.

10.B1.2

The relevant officer may—

10.B1.2.a

stop the ship;

10.B1.2.b

board the ship;

10.B1.2.c

require the ship to be taken to any place (on land or on water) in the United
Kingdom or elsewhere and detained there;

10.B1.2.d

require the ship to leave United Kingdom waters.

10.B1.3

The relevant officer may require the master of the ship or any member of its
crew to take such action as is necessary for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(2) .

10.B1.4

Where a ship is required to be taken to a place under sub-paragraph  (2)(c) ,
the relevant officer may require any person on board the ship to take such
action as is reasonably necessary to ensure that person is taken to that place
or to any other place determined by the relevant officer.

10.B1.5

Where a ship is required to leave United Kingdom waters under sub-paragraph
(2)(d) , the relevant officer may require any person on board the ship to take
such action as is reasonably necessary to ensure that person leaves United
Kingdom waters.

10.B1.6

The authority of the Secretary of State is required before a relevant officer
may exercise the power under sub-paragraph  (2)(c)  to require the ship to be
taken to any place—

10.B1.6.a

within a State other than the United Kingdom, or

10.B1.6.b

within a relevant territory.

10.B1.7

But a relevant officer acting under authority given under section 28LA (3)(c)
or  (d)  in relation to a foreign ship or a ship registered under the law of a
relevant territory may require the ship to be taken to a place mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (8)  without authority under sub-paragraph  (6) .

10.B1.8

Those places are—

10.B1.8.a

a place in the home state or relevant territory in question, or

10.B1.8.b

if the home state or relevant territory requests, a place in any other State
or relevant territory willing to receive the ship.

10.B1.9

A relevant officer must give notice in writing to the master of any ship
detained under this paragraph.

10.B1.10

The notice must state that the ship is to be detained until the notice is
withdrawn by the giving of a further notice in writing signed by a relevant
officer.

10.B1.11

The requirement to give notice under sub-paragraph  (9)  does not apply where
it is not reasonably possible to identify who is the master of the ship.

10.B1.12

In this paragraph “ home state ”, in relation to a foreign ship, means—

10.B1.12.a

the State in which the ship is registered, or

10.B1.12.b

the State whose flag the ship is otherwise entitled to fly.

######### Power to search and obtain information

10.C1

10.C1.1

This paragraph applies if a relevant officer has reasonable grounds to suspect
that there is evidence on the ship (other than items subject to legal
privilege) relating—

10.C1.1.a

to a relevant offence or,

10.C1.1.b

to an offence that is connected with a relevant offence.

10.C1.2

The relevant officer may search—

10.C1.2.a

the ship;

10.C1.2.b

anyone on the ship;

10.C1.2.c

anything on the ship (including cargo).

10.C1.3

The relevant officer may require a person on the ship to give information
about themselves or about anything on the ship.

10.C1.4

The power to search conferred by sub-paragraph  (2) —

10.C1.4.a

is only a power to search to the extent that it is reasonably required for the
purpose of discovering evidence of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
and

10.C1.4.b

in the case of a search of a person, does not authorise a relevant officer to
require the person to remove any clothing in public other than an outer coat,
jacket or gloves.

10.C1.5

In exercising a power conferred by sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3)  a relevant
officer may—

10.C1.5.a

open any containers;

10.C1.5.b

require the production of documents, books or records relating to the ship or
anything on it (but not including anything the relevant officer has reasonable
grounds to believe is an item subject to legal privilege);

10.C1.5.c

make photographs or copies of anything the production of which the relevant
officer has power to require.

10.C1.6

The power in sub-paragraph  (5)(b)  to require the production of documents,
books or records includes, in relation to documents, books or records kept in
electronic form, power to require the provision of the documents, books or
records in a form in which they are legible and can be taken away.

10.C1.7

Sub-paragraph  (5)  is without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) .

10.C1.8

A power conferred by this paragraph may be exercised on the ship or elsewhere.

######### Power of arrest and seizure

10.D1

10.D1.1

This paragraph applies if a relevant officer has reasonable grounds to suspect
that a relevant offence has been, or is being, committed on the ship.

10.D1.2

The relevant officer may arrest without a warrant anyone whom the officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting to be guilty of the offence.

10.D1.3

The relevant officer may seize and retain anything found on the ship which
appears to the officer to be evidence of the offence (but not including
anything that the officer has reasonable grounds to believe to be an item
subject to legal privilege).

10.D1.4

A power conferred by this paragraph may be exercised on the ship or elsewhere.

######### Protective searches of persons

10.E1

10.E1.1

A relevant officer may search a person found on the ship for anything which
the officer has reasonable grounds to believe the person might use to—

10.E1.1.a

cause physical injury,

10.E1.1.b

cause damage to property, or

10.E1.1.c

endanger the safety of any ship.

10.E1.2

The power conferred by sub-paragraph  (1)  may be exercised—

10.E1.2.a

only if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that anything of a kind
mentioned in that sub-paragraph is concealed on the person, and

10.E1.2.b

only to the extent that it is reasonably required for the purpose of
discovering any such thing.

10.E1.3

The relevant officer may seize and retain anything which the officer has
grounds to believe might—

10.E1.3.a

cause physical injury,

10.E1.3.b

cause damage to property, or

10.E1.3.c

endanger the safety of any ship.

10.E1.4

If the person is detained, nothing seized under sub-paragraph  (3)  may be
retained when the person is released from detention.

10.E1.5

A power conferred by this paragraph to search a person does not authorise a
relevant officer to require the person to remove any clothing in public other
than an outer coat, jacket or gloves, but it does authorise the search of a
person’s mouth.

10.E1.6

A power conferred by this paragraph may be exercised on the ship or elsewhere.

######### Search for nationality documents

10.F1

10.F1.1

A relevant officer may require a person found on the ship to produce a
nationality document.

10.F1.2

The relevant officer may search a person found on the ship where the officer
has reasonable grounds to believe that a nationality document is concealed on
the person.

10.F1.3

The power conferred by sub-paragraph  (2)  may be exercised—

10.F1.3.a

only if the officer has reasonable grounds to believe that a nationality
document is concealed on the person, and

10.F1.3.b

only to the extent that it is reasonably required for the purpose of
discovering any such document.

10.F1.4

Subject as follows, the officer may seize and retain a nationality document
for as long as the officer believes the person to whom it relates will arrive
in the United Kingdom by virtue of the exercise of the power under paragraph
B1 .

10.F1.5

The power to retain a nationality document under sub-paragraph (4) does not
affect any other power of an immigration officer to retain a document.

10.F1.6

Where a nationality document has been seized and retained by a relevant
officer who is not an immigration officer, the document must be passed to an
immigration officer as soon as is practicable after the ship has arrived in
the United Kingdom.

10.F1.7

The power conferred by this paragraph to search a person does not authorise a
relevant officer to—

10.F1.7.a

require the person to remove any clothing in public other than an outer coat,
jacket or gloves, or

10.F1.7.b

seize and retain any document the officer has reasonable grounds to believe to
be an item subject to legal privilege.

10.F1.8

In this paragraph a “ nationality document ”, in relation to a person, means
any document which might—

10.F1.8.a

establish the person’s identity, nationality or citizenship, or

10.F1.8.b

indicate the place from which the person has travelled to the United Kingdom
or to which the person is proposing to go.

10.F1.9

A power conferred by this paragraph may be exercised on the ship or elsewhere.

######### Assistants

10.G1

10.G1.1

A relevant officer may—

10.G1.1.a

be accompanied by other persons, and

10.G1.1.b

take equipment or materials,

to assist the officer in the exercise of powers under this Part of this
Schedule.

10.G1.2

A person accompanying a relevant officer under sub-paragraph (1) may perform
any of the officer’s functions under this Part of this Schedule, but only
under the officer’s supervision.

######### Reasonable force

10.H1

A relevant officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the performance
of functions under this Part of this Schedule.

######### Evidence of authority

10.I1

A relevant officer must produce evidence of the relevant officer’s authority
if asked to do so.

######### Protection of relevant officers

10.J1

A relevant officer is not liable in any criminal or civil proceedings for
anything done in the purported performance of functions under this Part of
this Schedule if the court is satisfied that—

10.J1.a

the act was done in good faith, and

10.J1.b

there were reasonable grounds for doing it.

######### Offences under the law of England and Wales

10.K1

10.K1.1

A person commits an offence under the law of England and Wales if the person—

10.K1.1.a

intentionally obstructs a relevant officer in the performance of functions
under this Part of this Schedule in England and Wales, England and Wales
waters, foreign waters or international waters, or

10.K1.1.b

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of such functions.

10.K1.2

A person who provides information in response to a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of functions under this Part of this
Schedule in England and Wales, England and Wales waters, foreign waters or
international waters commits an offence under the law of England and Wales if—

10.K1.2.a

the information is false in a material particular, and the person either knows
it is, or is reckless as to whether it is, or

10.K1.2.b

the person intentionally fails to disclose any material particular.

10.K1.3

A relevant officer may arrest without warrant anyone whom the officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting to be guilty of an offence under this
paragraph.

10.K1.4

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine or to
both.

10.K1.5

In the application of sub-paragraph  (4)  in relation to an offence committed
before the coming into force of section 281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act
2003 the reference to 51 weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

######### Offences under the law of Scotland

10.L1

10.L1.1

A person commits an offence under the law of Scotland if the person—

10.L1.1.a

intentionally obstructs a relevant officer in the performance of functions
under this Part of this Schedule in Scotland, Scotland waters, foreign waters
or international waters, or

10.L1.1.b

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of such functions.

10.L1.2

A person who provides information in response to a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of functions under this Part of this
Schedule in Scotland, Scotland waters, foreign waters or international waters
commits an offence under the law of Scotland if—

10.L1.2.a

the information is false in a material particular, and the person either knows
it is, or is reckless as to whether it is, or

10.L1.2.b

the person intentionally fails to disclose any material particular.

10.L1.3

A relevant officer may arrest without warrant anyone whom the officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting to be guilty of an offence under this
paragraph.

10.L1.4

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, to a fine not
exceeding level 5 on the standard scale or to both.

######### Offences under the law of Northern Ireland

10.M1

10.M1.1

A person commits an offence under the law of Northern Ireland if the person—

10.M1.1.a

intentionally obstructs a relevant officer in the performance of functions
under this Part of this Schedule in Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland waters,
foreign waters or international waters, or

10.M1.1.b

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of such functions.

10.M1.2

A person who provides information in response to a requirement made by a
relevant officer in the performance of functions under this Part of this
Schedule in Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland waters, foreign waters or
international waters commits an offence under the law of Northern Ireland if—

10.M1.2.a

the information is false in a material particular, and the person either knows
it is, or is reckless as to whether it is, or

10.M1.2.b

the person intentionally fails to disclose any material particular.

10.M1.3

A relevant officer may arrest without warrant anyone whom the officer has
reasonable grounds for suspecting to be guilty of an offence under this
paragraph.

10.M1.4

A person guilty of an offence under this paragraph is liable on summary
conviction to a term not exceeding 6 months, to a fine not exceeding level 5
on the standard scale or to both.

11

In paragraph 1(1)—

11.a

omit “immigration officers,” and

11.b

omit “and enforcement officers”.

12

In paragraph 4—

12.a

in sub-paragraph (2) omit “constable or”, and

12.b

in sub-paragraph (3) omit “constable or”.

13

In paragraph 6—

13.a

omit sub-paragraph (5), and

13.b

in sub-paragraph (6), for the words from “Where” to “the document” substitute
“A nationality document that has been seized and retained by a relevant
officer” .

14

In paragraph 12(1)—

14.a

omit “immigration officers,”, and

14.b

omit “and enforcement officers”.

15

In paragraph 17—

15.a

omit sub-paragraph (5), and

15.b

in sub-paragraph (6), for the words from “Where” to “the document” substitute
“A nationality document that has been seized and retained by a relevant
officer” .

16

In paragraph 23—

16.a

omit “immigration officers,” and

16.b

omit “and enforcement officers”.

17

In paragraph 26(3) omit “constable or”.

18

In paragraph 28—

18.a

omit sub-paragraph (5), and

18.b

in sub-paragraph (6), for the words from “Where” to “the document” substitute
“A nationality document that has been seized and retained by a relevant
officer” .

  Prisoners returning to the UK: Modifications of Criminal Justice Act 2003

Section 47(11)

  This is the Schedule to be inserted after Schedule 19A to the Criminal
Justice Act 2003—       SCHEDULE 19B     Prisoners returning to the UK:
Modifications of Chapter 6 of Part 12     Section 261       Modification of
dates for referral to the Board     1     Paragraph 2 applies where section
244ZC(2), 244A(2) or 246A(4) (when read with section 260(4A)) would require
the Secretary of State to refer a person’s case to the Board on a day falling
before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the
person is returned to custody.         2     The applicable provision is to be
read as requiring the Secretary of State to refer the person’s case to the
Board at any time up to the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the
day on which the person is returned to custody.         3     For the purposes
of paragraphs 1 and 2, a person returns to custody when the person, having
returned to the United Kingdom, is detained (whether or not in prison) in
pursuance of their sentence.           Person removed after Board had directed
release but before being released     4     Paragraphs 5 and 6 apply where,
before a person’s removal from the United Kingdom—     a     the Board had
directed their release under section 244ZC, 244A or 246A, but         b
they had not been released on licence.             5     The direction of the
Board is to be treated as having no effect.         6     The person is to be
treated as if—     a     they had been recalled under section 254 on the day
on which they returned to the United Kingdom, and         b     they were not
suitable for automatic release (see section 255A).               Person
removed after referral to the Board but before disposal of the reference     7
Paragraph 8 applies where—     a     before a person’s removal from prison
their case had been referred to the Board under section 244ZB(3), 244ZC(2),
244A(2) or 246A(4), and         b     the reference lapsed under section
260(4B) because the person was removed from the United Kingdom before the
Board had disposed of the reference.             8     Section 244ZC(2),
244A(2) or 246A(4) (as applicable) is to be read as requiring the Secretary of
State to refer the person’s case to the Board before the end of the period of
28 days beginning with the day on which the person is returned to custody.
9     For the purposes of paragraph 8, a person returns to custody when the
person, having returned to the United Kingdom, is detained (whether or not in
prison) in pursuance of their sentence.           Person removed after having
been recalled to prison     10     Paragraphs 11 and 12 apply where, at the
time of a person’s removal from prison under section 260, the person was in
prison following recall under section 254.         11     Any direction of the
Board made in relation to the person under section 255C or 256A before their
return to the United Kingdom is to be treated as having no effect.         12
The person is to be treated as if—     a     they had been recalled under
section 254 on the day on which they returned to the United Kingdom, and
b     they were not suitable for automatic release (see section 255A).

