Title: Non-Domestic Rates (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Act 2022
Date: 2022-08-15
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/7

## Non-Domestic Rates (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Act 2022

### Effect of coronavirus on net annual values and rateable values of lands and heritages

1

1.1

In calculating the net annual value or rateable value of any lands and
heritages in respect of which a relevant determination is made, no account is
to be taken of any matter occurring on or after 2 April 2020 that is (whether
directly or indirectly) attributable to coronavirus.

1.2

But subsection (1) does not apply to taking account of the physical state of
the lands and heritages in respect of which the relevant determination is
made, including whether that state affects the mode or category of occupation
of the lands or heritages.

1.3

For the purposes of subsection (1), where a matter attributable to coronavirus
first occurs before 2 April 2020 and continues to occur on or after 2 April
2020, no account is to be taken of that matter from on or after 2 April 2020.

1.4

For the purposes of this section, a “relevant determination”—

1.4.a

means a calculation of the net annual value, altered net annual value,
rateable value or altered rateable value of any lands and heritages, or some
part of lands and heritages, for the purposes of any entry in the valuation
roll, but

1.4.b

does not include a determination as to whether any lands and heritages, or
some part of lands and heritages, are or are not to be included in the
valuation roll.

1.5

For the purposes of this section, matters that are attributable to coronavirus
include (but are not limited to)—

1.5.a

anything done by any person—

1.5.a.i

with a view to compliance with any legislation which concerns the incidence or
spread of coronavirus,

1.5.a.ii

with a view to compliance with any legislation for reasons relating to the
incidence or spread of coronavirus, or

1.5.a.iii

in response to, or otherwise in consequence of, any advice or guidance given
by a public authority relating to the incidence or spread of coronavirus, and

1.5.b

any change—

1.5.b.i

in the rent of the lands and heritages in respect of which a relevant
determination is made (or any other lands and heritages) that is attributable
to coronavirus, or

1.5.b.ii

in the level of valuations generally or in the value of lands and heritages
generally that is attributable to coronavirus.

### Alteration of valuation roll

2

2.1

The assessor for each valuation area must, in respect of that area—

2.1.a

apply the rule imposed by section 1(1) to the valuation roll, and

2.1.b

make any resulting change to the net annual value or the rateable value of any
lands and heritages.

2.2

This section applies both—

2.2.a

while the valuation roll is in force, and

2.2.b

after the valuation roll ceases to be in force.

### Interpretation

3

In this Act—

      “ assessor ” means an assessor appointed under section 27(2) of the
Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 and includes a depute assessor,
“ coronavirus ” means severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-
CoV-2),           “ lands and heritages ” is to be construed in accordance
with section 42 of the Lands Valuation (Scotland) Act 1854,           “ net
annual value ”, in relation to lands and heritages, means—         in the case
of part residential subjects, the net annual value entered in the valuation
roll made up under section 1 of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975 for a
particular date on or after 2 April 2020 and apportioned to the non-
residential use of those subjects, and           in any other case, the net
annual value entered in that valuation roll for a particular date on or after
2 April 2020 in respect of those lands and heritages,         and includes a
net annual value so entered with retrospective effect,           “ rateable
value ”, in relation to lands and heritages, means—         in the case of
part residential subjects, the rateable value entered in the valuation roll
made up under section 1 of the Local Government (Scotland) Act 1975 for a
particular date on or after 2 April 2020 and apportioned to the non-
residential use of those subjects, and           in any other case, the
rateable value entered in that valuation roll for a particular date on or
after 2 April 2020 in respect of those lands and heritages,         and
includes a rateable value so entered with retrospective effect,           “
valuation roll ” means a valuation roll made up on 1 April 2017 and maintained
by the assessor for each valuation area under Part 1 of the Local Government
(Scotland) Act 1975.

### Revocation of the Valuation and Rating (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Order 2021

4

The Valuation and Rating (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Order 2021 ( S.S.I. 2021/445
) is revoked.

### Commencement

5

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

### Short title

6

The short title of this Act is the Non-Domestic Rates (Coronavirus) (Scotland)
Act 2022.

