Title: Northern Ireland (Ministers, Elections and Petitions of Concern) Act 2022
Date: 2022-02-28
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/2

## Northern Ireland (Ministers, Elections and Petitions of Concern) Act 2022

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament
assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Executive formation

#### Period for making Ministerial appointments

1

1.1

The Northern Ireland Act 1998 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 16A (appointment of Ministers following Assembly election), in
subsection (3), for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “Before the end
of the period for filling Ministerial offices—” .

1.3

After subsection (3) of that section insert—

1.3.3A

In this section “ the period for filling Ministerial offices ” means the
period comprising—

1.3.3A.a

the period of six weeks beginning with the day on which the Assembly first
meets, and

1.3.3A.b

the next three successive periods of six weeks (each referred to as an “
extension period ”), except for any period that is excluded by subsection
(3B).

1.3.3B

An extension period is excluded if, before it begins, the Assembly resolves
that the period for filling Ministerial offices should not be extended (or
further extended).

1.3.3C

The Assembly may not pass a resolution under subsection (3B) without cross-
community support.

1.4

In section 16B, for subsection (3) substitute—

1.4.3

Where at any time the offices of First Minister and deputy First Minister
become vacant otherwise than by virtue of section 16A(11A), they shall be
filled by applying subsections (4) to (7) before the end of the period for
filling the offices of First Minister and deputy First Minister.

1.4.3A

In this section “ the period for filling the offices of First Minister and
deputy First Minister ” means the period comprising—

1.4.3A.a

the period of six weeks beginning with the day on which the offices of First
Minister and deputy First Minister become vacant, and

1.4.3A.b

the next three successive periods of six weeks (each referred to as an “
extension period ”), except for any period that is excluded by subsection
(3B).

1.4.3B

An extension period is excluded if, before it begins, the Assembly resolves
that the period for filling the offices of First Minister and deputy First
Minister should not be extended (or further extended).

1.4.3C

The Assembly may not pass a resolution under subsection (3B) without cross-
community support.

1.5

In consequence of the amendments made by this section, in the Northern Ireland
(Stormont Agreement and Implementation Plan) Act 2016, omit section 6 and
Schedule 1.

#### Duration of Ministerial appointments

2

2.1

The Northern Ireland Act 1998 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 16A—

2.2.a

omit subsection (2) (Northern Ireland Ministers cease to hold office following
Assembly election);

2.2.b

in subsection (10), for “and the deputy First Minister” substitute  “, the
deputy First Minister and the Northern Ireland Ministers” ;

2.2.c

after subsection (11) insert—

2.2.c.11A

The First Minister and deputy First Minister cease to hold office if the
period of 24 weeks beginning with the day on which an Assembly first meets
expires without those offices having been filled by virtue of this section.

2.3

In section 18—

2.3.a

before subsection (1) insert—

2.3.a.A1

Where—

2.3.a.A1.a

an Assembly is elected—

2.3.a.A1.a.i

at a poll the date for which is proposed under section 32(3B), or

2.3.a.A1.a.ii

following the issue of a certificate under subsection (A2),

2.3.a.A1.b

the period of 24 weeks beginning with the day on which an Assembly first meets
expires without the offices mentioned in section 16A(3) having been filled, or

2.3.a.A1.c

the period of 48 weeks beginning with the day on which a vacancy arises in the
offices of First Minister and deputy First Minister expires without those
offices having been filled,

all Northern Ireland Ministers shall cease to hold office (and the Ministerial
offices shall remain vacant until next filled by virtue of section 16A).

2.3.a.A2

Where the Secretary of State—

2.3.a.A2.a

has proposed, or is under a duty to propose, a date for the poll for the
election of the next Assembly under section 32(1) or (3), and

2.3.a.A2.b

considers that, in order to give effect to the purpose underlying paragraph
3.15 of Annex C of Part 2 of The New Decade, New Approach Deal so far as it
relates to representation, it is necessary for the Northern Ireland Ministers
to cease to hold office on the election of that Assembly,

the Secretary of State may issue a certificate that the conditions in
paragraphs (a) and (b) are met.

;

2.3.b

in subsection (9) (circumstances in which an individual Northern Ireland
Minister ceases to hold office), after paragraph (a) insert—

2.3.b.aa

there is an Assembly election at which the Minister is not returned as a
member;

;

2.3.c

in subsection (10), after “subsection” insert  “(A1) or” .

2.4

In section 98, in subsection (1), at the appropriate place insert—

                                    “ The New Decade, New Approach Deal ”
means the deal to restore devolved government in Northern Ireland published by
that name in January 2020;

.

2.5

In Schedule 4A (Minister of Justice), in paragraph 3D—

2.5.a

before sub-paragraph (1) insert—

2.5.a.A1

Where—

2.5.a.A1.a

an Assembly is elected—

2.5.a.A1.a.i

at a poll the date for which is proposed under section 32(3B), or

2.5.a.A1.a.ii

following the issue of a certificate under section 18(A2),

2.5.a.A1.b

the period of 24 weeks beginning with the day on which an Assembly first meets
expires without the offices mentioned in section 16A(3) having been filled, or

2.5.a.A1.c

the period of 48 weeks beginning with the day on which a vacancy arises in the
offices of First Minister and deputy First Minister expires without those
offices having been filled,

the relevant Minister shall cease to hold office (and the relevant Ministerial
office shall remain vacant until next filled by virtue of section 16A).

;

2.5.b

in sub-paragraph (11), after paragraph (a) insert—

2.5.b.aa

there is an Assembly election at which the Minister is not returned as a
member,

;

2.5.c

in sub-paragraph (14), after “sub-paragraph” insert  “(A1) or” .

#### Extraordinary Assembly elections

3

3.1

Section 32 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (extraordinary elections) is
amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (1) (Secretary of State’s duty to trigger election if Assembly
resolves to dissolve itself), after “shall” insert  “, as soon as
practicable,” .

3.3

After subsection (1) insert—

3.3.1A

The proposed date must be within the period of 12 weeks beginning with the day
on which the resolution is passed.

3.4

In subsection (3) (Secretary of State’s duty to trigger election if
Ministerial offices not filled), in the words after paragraph (b), after
“shall” insert  “, as soon as practicable,” .

3.5

After subsection (3) insert—

3.5.3A

The proposed date must be within the period of 12 weeks beginning when the
duty in subsection (3) arises.

3.5.3B

At any time after the first six weeks of the period mentioned in section
16A(3) or 16B(3) but before the end of the period mentioned there, the
Secretary of State may, if the offices mentioned there have not yet been
filled, propose a date for the poll for the election of the next Assembly.

3.5.3C

The Secretary of State may exercise the power in subsection (3B) only if the
Secretary of State considers that it is necessary to do so in order to give
effect to the purpose underlying paragraph 3.15 of Annex C of Part 2 of The
New Decade, New Approach Deal so far as it relates to representation.

3.5.3D

The Assembly may not pass a resolution under subsection (1)—

3.5.3D.a

during a period when the Secretary of State is under a duty to propose a date
under subsection (3), or

3.5.3D.b

if the Secretary of State has proposed a date under subsection (3) or (3B) and
that date has not yet been reached.

3.5.3E

The duty in subsection (3) does not arise if—

3.5.3E.a

the Assembly passes a resolution under subsection (1) during the period
mentioned in section 16A(3) or 16B(3), or

3.5.3E.b

the Secretary of State proposes a date under subsection (3B) during that
period.

3.5.3F

The Secretary of State may not propose a date under subsection (3B)—

3.5.3F.a

during a period when the Secretary of State is under a duty to propose a date
under subsection (1), or

3.5.3F.b

if the Secretary of State has proposed a date under subsection (1) and that
date has not yet been reached.

3.5.3G

Where the Secretary of State has proposed a date under subsection (1), (3) or
(3B), the Secretary of State may, before the Assembly has been dissolved—

3.5.3G.a

propose a different date under that subsection, or

3.5.3G.b

in the case of a date proposed under subsection (3B), withdraw the proposal;

and an Order in Council under subsection (4) may be amended or revoked
accordingly.

3.6

In subsection (4), for “or (3)” substitute  “, (3) or (3B)” .

#### Transitional provision

4

4.1

The amendments made by sections 1 (2) ,  (3)  and  (5)  and 2 (2)  do not
apply in a case where section 16A of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 applies as
the result of an Assembly being elected before this Act comes into force.

4.2

The new provisions relating to vacancies in the office of First Minister or
deputy First Minister—

4.2.a

apply in relation to vacancies arising within the period of seven days ending
when this Act comes into force, but

4.2.b

do not otherwise apply in relation to vacancies arising before this Act comes
into force.

4.3

For these purposes “ the new provisions relating to vacancies in the office of
First Minister or deputy First Minister ” means—

4.3.a

the amendment made by section 1 (4) ,

4.3.b

the new section 18(A1)(c) to be inserted into the Northern Ireland Act 1998 by
section 2 (3) , and

4.3.c

the new paragraph 3D(A1)(c) to be inserted into Schedule 4A to that Act by
section 2 (5) .

4.4

The amendments made by section 3 do not apply where the duty of the Secretary
of State under section 32(1) or (3) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 arises
before this Act comes into force.

### Ministerial Code of Conduct

#### Ministerial Code of Conduct

5

5.1

In Part 2 of Schedule 4 to the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (code of conduct),
for paragraph 1 substitute—

5.1.1

5.1.1.1

Ministers must at all times—

5.1.1.1.a

maintain the highest standards of conduct and behave in a way that upholds the
highest standards of propriety;

5.1.1.1.b

be accountable to the Assembly and the public for the decisions and actions of
their departments and agencies, including stewardship of public funds and the
extent to which key performance targets and objects have been met;

5.1.1.1.c

uphold the Nolan principles;

5.1.1.1.d

comply with this code and with rules relating to the use of public funds;

5.1.1.1.e

operate in a way that is conducive to promoting good community relations and
equality of opportunity, treating all those with whom they come into contact
with consideration and respect;

5.1.1.1.f

ensure that no conflict arises, or could be reasonably perceived to arise,
between Ministers’ public duties and their private interests, financial or
otherwise, and comply with rules concerning conflicts of interest;

5.1.1.1.g

refrain from using information gained in the course of their service for
personal gain and from using the opportunity of public service to promote
their private interests;

5.1.1.1.h

ensure that official resources are not used for party political purposes;

5.1.1.1.i

comply with rules regarding the management of official information;

5.1.1.1.j

comply with rules on the acceptance of gifts and hospitality;

5.1.1.1.k

uphold the political impartiality of the civil service, not asking civil
servants to act in any way which would conflict with the Northern Ireland
Civil Service Code of Ethics;

5.1.1.1.l

make civil service and public appointments in accordance with relevant
legislation and relevant recruitment codes; and ensure that the rules on
management and conduct of special advisers, including discipline, are complied
with.

5.1.1.2

“ The Nolan principles ” means the seven general principles of public life set
out in the First Report of the Committee on Standards in Public Life (Cm 2850)
as revised or replaced from time to time.

5.2

In relation to a person holding office as a Minister or junior Minister
immediately before the amendments made by this section come into force, the
reference in that person’s pledge of office to complying with the Ministerial
Code of Conduct is to be taken to include a pledge to comply with the amended
Ministerial Code of Conduct from the time when those amendments come into
force.

5.3

In subsection (2)—

                           “ junior Minister ” means a person appointed as a
junior Minister in accordance with section 19 of the Northern Ireland Act
1998;
“ Minister ” has the meaning given by section 7(3) of the Northern Ireland Act
1998.

### Petitions of concern

#### Petitions of concern

6

For section 42 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 substitute—

######## Petitions of concern

6.42

6.42.1

If a petition expressing concern about a matter which is to be voted on by the
Assembly is—

6.42.1.a

presented to the Assembly by 30 members, and

6.42.1.b

on the day after the consideration period, confirmed by 30 members,

the vote on that matter requires cross-community support.

6.42.2

If such a petition is presented, the vote on the matter to which it relates
may not take place until after the day mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

6.42.3

The members presenting or confirming a petition must include—

6.42.3.a

one member who belongs to a political party and one member who belongs to a
different political party,

6.42.3.b

one member who belongs to a political party and one member who does not belong
to a political party and did not belong to a political party when returned as
a member of the Assembly, or

6.42.3.c

two members who do not belong to a political party and did not belong to a
political party when returned as members of the Assembly.

6.42.4

A matter may not be the subject of a petition if it—

6.42.4.a

concerns a sanction in relation to the conduct of a Minister or other member
of the Assembly;

6.42.4.b

concerns the vote on the general principles of a Bill referred to in section
13(1)(a);

6.42.4.c

is a matter specified in standing orders made under subsection (6)(c).

6.42.5

A petition under this section may not be presented or confirmed by the
Presiding Officer or a deputy Presiding Officer.

6.42.6

Standing orders must—

6.42.6.a

make provision with respect to the procedure to be followed in presenting and
confirming a petition under this section (which may include provision
specifying a minimum period between the presentation of the petition and the
time when the vote on the matter to which it relates would take place if not
postponed by the petition);

6.42.6.b

provide that the matter to which a petition under this section relates may be
referred, in accordance with paragraphs 11 and 13 of Strand One of the Belfast
Agreement, to the committee established under section 13(3)(a);

6.42.6.c

specify further matters that may not be the subject of a petition under this
section, for the purposes of fully implementing paragraph 2.2.4 of Annex B of
Part 2 of The New Decade, New Approach Deal;

6.42.6.d

make provision for such steps to be taken during the consideration period as
may be necessary for the purposes of fully implementing paragraph 2.2.7 of
Annex B of Part 2 of The New Decade, New Approach Deal.

6.42.7

If the day mentioned in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) is not a working day
that paragraph is to be read as referring to the next day that is a working
day.

6.42.8

In this section—

                                                               “ the
consideration period ” means the period of 14 days beginning with the day on
which the petition is presented;
“ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, Christmas Day,
Good Friday or a day which is a bank holiday in Northern Ireland.

### Repeals and final provisions

#### Repeal of spent provisions

7

The following are repealed—

7.a

the Northern Ireland (Executive Formation and Exercise of Functions) Act 2018;

7.b

in the Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act 2019, sections 1 to 7.

#### Extent

8

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement

9

This Act comes into force on the day on which it is passed.

#### Short Title

10

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland (Ministers, Elections and
Petitions of Concern) Act 2022.

