Title: Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act 2022
Date: 2024-02-14
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/48

## Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act 2022

                                                   B e it enacted  by the
King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the Lords
Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and
by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Executive formation

#### Extension of period for making Ministerial appointments 

1

1.1

The Northern Ireland Act 1998 has effect as if, during the current post-
election period, for subsections (3A) to (3C) of section 16A (appointment of
Ministers following an Assembly election) there were substituted—

1.1.3A

In this section “ the period for filling Ministerial offices ” means the
period beginning with 13 May 2022 and ending with     8 February 2024 .

1.2

In this section, “ the current post-election period ” means the period
beginning with 5 May 2022 and ending with the day on which a poll for the
election of an Assembly is next held.

#### Power to propose date for a poll

1A

1A.1

The Northern Ireland Act 1998 has effect as if, during the current post-
election period, section 32 (extraordinary elections) were amended as follows—

1A.1.a

after subsection (3A), insert—

1A.1.a.3AA

At any time before the end of the period mentioned in section 16A(3), the
Secretary of State may, if the offices mentioned there have not yet been
filled, propose a date for the poll for the election of the next Assembly.

;

1A.1.b

in subsection (3B), omit “16A(3) or”;

1A.1.c

in subsection (3D)(b), after “(3)” insert  “, (3AA)” ;

1A.1.d

in subsection (3E)(b), after “subsection” insert  “(3AA) or” ;

1A.1.e

in subsection (3F), in the words before paragraph (a), after “subsection”
insert  “(3AA) or” ;

1A.1.f

in subsection (3G)—

1A.1.f.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “(3)” insert  “, (3AA)” ;

1A.1.f.ii

after paragraph (a), insert—

1A.1.f.ii.aa

in the case of a date proposed under subsection (3AA), withdraw the proposal
before the end of the period referred to in section 16A(3), or

;

1A.1.g

in subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), after “(3)” insert  “,
(3AA)” .

1A.2

In this section, “ the current post-election period ” has the meaning given in
section 1.

#### Power to extend period for making Ministerial appointments by a further six weeks

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Exercise of departmental functions

#### Exercise of departmental functions

3

3.1

The absence of Northern Ireland Ministers does not prevent a senior officer of
a Northern Ireland department from exercising a function of the department
during   the current period in which there is no Executive   if the officer is
satisfied that it is in the public interest to exercise the function during
that period.

3.2

In this section “ the current period in which there is no Executive ” means
the period—

3.2.a

beginning with 6 December 2022 (the day on which this Act was passed), and

3.2.b

ending when an Executive is next formed.

3.3

The fact that a matter connected with the exercise of a function by a Northern
Ireland department has not been discussed and agreed by the Executive
Committee of the Northern Ireland Assembly is not to be treated as preventing
the exercise of that function as mentioned in  subsection (1) .

3.4

The Secretary of State must publish guidance about the exercise of functions
by a senior officer of a Northern Ireland department in reliance on this
section, including guidance as to the principles to be taken into account in
deciding whether or not to exercise a function.

3.5

Senior officers of Northern Ireland departments must have regard to that
guidance.

3.6

Before publishing guidance under  subsection (4)  the Secretary of State must
have regard to any representations made by members of the Northern Ireland
Assembly.

#### Exercise of departmental functions before this Act is passed

4

4.1

The absence of Northern Ireland Ministers is not to be treated as having
prevented any senior officer of a Northern Ireland department from exercising
functions of the department during the period beginning with 28 October 2022
and ending when this Act is passed.

4.2

Subsection (1)  does not apply in relation to the exercise of a function if—

4.2.a

proceedings begun, but not finally decided, before this Act is passed involve
a challenge to the validity of that exercise of the function, and

4.2.b

the application of that subsection would affect the outcome of the
proceedings,

but nothing in  this subsection  prevents the re-exercise of the function in
the same way in reliance on  section 3 (1) .

#### Exercise of departmental functions: supplementary

5

5.1

Sections 3  and  4  have effect despite anything in the Northern Ireland Act
1998, the Departments (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/283 (N.I. 1) )
or any other enactment or rule of law that would prevent a senior officer of a
Northern Ireland department from exercising departmental functions in the
absence of Northern Ireland Ministers.

5.2

No inference is to be drawn from  sections 3  and  4  or  this section  as to
whether or not a senior officer of a Northern Ireland department would
otherwise have been prevented from exercising departmental functions.

### Advice and information

#### Advice and information on options for raising public revenue

5A

5A.1

The Secretary of State may use the powers conferred by this section only—

5A.1.a

during the current period in which there is no Executive, and

5A.1.b

for the purpose of developing options for raising more public revenue in
Northern Ireland or otherwise improving the sustainability of public finances
in Northern Ireland.

5A.2

The Secretary of State may direct a Northern Ireland department to—

5A.2.a

give the Secretary of State advice or information about such matters as may be
specified in the direction;

5A.2.b

carry out such consultation as may be specified in the direction.

5A.3

A direction to provide advice or information may include provision about—

5A.3.a

the manner or form in which it is to be provided;

5A.3.b

when it is to be provided.

5A.4

A direction to carry out a consultation may include provision about—

5A.4.a

who is to be consulted;

5A.4.b

how the consultation is to be carried out;

5A.4.c

the content of the consultation (including provision requiring the department
to obtain the approval of the Secretary of State to the content of the
consultation before the consultation begins);

5A.4.d

the consultation timetable.

5A.5

Where a direction requires a department to give information that is not within
its possession, or is not under its control, the department must take
reasonable steps to obtain the information for the purpose of complying with
the direction.

5A.6

The power under  subsection (2) (a) —

5A.6.a

may be exercised so as to require two or more departments to give joint
advice;

5A.6.b

may be exercised so as to require two or more departments jointly to collate
information and for one or other of them to give it to the Secretary of State.

5A.7

A direction under this section lapses at the end of the current period in
which there is no Executive.

5A.8

In this section “ current period in which there is no Executive ” means the
period—

5A.8.a

beginning when the Northern Ireland (Interim Arrangements) Act 2023 is passed,
and

5A.8.b

ending when an Executive is next formed.

#### Advice and information: data protection

5B

5B.1

A direction under  section 5A (2) (a)  does not require a disclosure of
information if the disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation
(but in determining whether a disclosure would do so, take into account the
duty to comply with a direction under that section).

5B.2

In this section “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act).

### Exercise of appointment functions

#### NI ministerial appointment functions

6

6.1

During the current period in which there is no Executive, an appointment
function of a Northern Ireland Minister in relation to a specified office may
be exercised by the relevant Minister of the Crown.

6.2

The table defines terms for the purposes of  this section .

“specified office” “relevant Minister of the Crown”   King’s Counsel  Lord
Chancellor Member of the Northern Ireland Judicial Appointments Commission
Lord Chancellor Commissioner for Children and Young People for Northern
Ireland Secretary of State   Member or chair of the Agricultural Wages Board
for Northern Ireland  Secretary of State   Member, chair or deputy chair of
the Council for Nature Conservation and the Countryside  Secretary of State
Member of the Drainage Council for Northern Ireland Secretary of State Member,
chair or deputy chair of the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland
Secretary of State   Member, chair or deputy chair of the Health and Safety
Executive for Northern Ireland  Secretary of State Member or chair of the
Historic Buildings Council Secretary of State Member or chair of the Labour
Relations Agency Secretary of State Member or chair of the Livestock and Meat
Commission for Northern Ireland Secretary of State Trustee or chair of the
Board of Trustees of the National Museums and Galleries of Northern Ireland
Secretary of State   Member, chair or chief executive of the Northern Ireland
Council for the Curriculum, Examinations and Assessment  Secretary of State
Member or chair of the Northern Ireland Fishery Harbour Authority Secretary of
State   Member, chair or vice-chair of the Northern Ireland Housing Executive
Secretary of State Member or chair of the Northern Ireland Local Government
Officers’ Superannuation Committee Secretary of State Member of the Northern
Ireland Policing Board Secretary of State Member, chair or deputy chair of the
Northern Ireland Tourist Board Secretary of State   Commissioner for Older
People for Northern Ireland  Secretary of State Member of the Police Service
of Northern Ireland above the rank of chief superintendent Secretary of State
Member, chair or deputy chair of the Probation Board for Northern Ireland
Secretary of State Commissioner for Public Appointments for Northern Ireland
Secretary of State   Member, chair or vice-chair of the Sports Council for
Northern Ireland  Secretary of State

6.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument add
entries to the table.

6.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (3)  may not
be made unless—

6.4.a

a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a resolution of
each House of Parliament, or

6.4.b

the regulations state that the Secretary of State considers it to be expedient
for the regulations to be made more quickly than the procedure in  paragraph
(a)  would allow.

6.5

Where regulations contain a statement under  subsection (4) (b) —

6.5.a

the instrument containing the regulations must be laid before Parliament after
being made, and

6.5.b

the regulations cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, it is approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

6.6

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of  subsection (5) (b) , that
does not—

6.6.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under the regulations, or

6.6.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

6.7

In calculating the period of 28 days mentioned in  subsection (5) (b) , no
account is to be taken of any whole days that fall within a period during
which—

6.7.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

6.7.b

both Houses of Parliament are adjourned for more than four days.

6.8

Before exercising an appointment function in reliance on  subsection (1)  the
relevant Minister of the Crown must consult a Northern Ireland department.

6.9

Any enactment or document is to have effect, so far as may be necessary for or
in consequence of the exercise of any functions by the relevant Minister of
the Crown in reliance on this section, as if references to a Northern Ireland
Minister included, or were, references to the relevant Minister of the Crown.

#### Minister of the Crown appointment functions

7

Any requirement for a Minister of the Crown to consult, or obtain the approval
of, a Northern Ireland Minister or the Executive Committee of the Northern
Ireland Assembly before exercising an appointment function has effect, during
the current period in which there is no Executive, as a requirement to consult
a Northern Ireland department.

#### Joint UK appointment functions etc

8

8.1

During the current period in which there is no Executive, the Secretary of
State may exercise any appointment function of a Northern Ireland Minister
that is exercisable jointly with one or more other persons who include the
Secretary of State.

8.2

Before exercising an appointment function in reliance on  subsection (1)  the
Secretary of State must consult a Northern Ireland department.

8.3

Any enactment or document is to have effect, so far as may be necessary for or
in consequence of the exercise of any functions by the Secretary of State in
reliance on  this section , as if references to a Northern Ireland Minister
included, or were, references to the Secretary of State.

#### Sections 6 to 8: core definitions

9

9.1

In  sections 6  to  8 —

“ appointment function ” means— the function of appointing a person to an
office or recommending a person for appointment; the function of requesting
nominations for an appointment; the function of determining terms of
appointment; the function of determining remuneration, pensions or other
payments in respect of appointments, loss of office or suspension from office;
the function of suspending or removing a person from office, receiving notice
of a person’s resignation from office or calling on a person to resign or
retire; the function of approving or being consulted about the exercise of any
of the functions listed in paragraphs (a) to (e); the function of requiring or
requesting another person to exercise any of the functions listed in
paragraphs (a) to (e); a function ancillary to any of the functions listed
above; “ current period in which there is no Executive ” means the period
beginning when  this section  and  sections 6  to  8  come into force and
ending when an Executive is next formed.

9.2

A reference in those sections to the function of a person includes a function
that is exercisable by that person jointly with one or more other persons.

9.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
the definition of “appointment function”.

9.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (3)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Northern Ireland Assembly pay

#### Power to determine salaries and other benefits for Members of the Assembly

10

10.1

During a period in which the Northern Ireland Assembly is not functioning, the
Secretary of State may make a determination as to—

10.1.a

the salaries or allowances payable under section 47 of the Northern Ireland
Act 1998 in respect of some or all of that period, and

10.1.b

allowances or gratuities payable under section 48 of that Act to or in respect
of a person ceasing to be a member, or ceasing to hold office, during that
period.

10.2

A determination under  subsection (1)  must be in writing.

10.3

As soon as possible after a determination under  subsection (1)  is made—

10.3.a

the Secretary of State must send it to the Northern Ireland Assembly
Commission, and

10.3.b

the Commission must publish it.

10.4

Section 12 of the Assembly Members (Independent Financial Review and
Standards) Act (Northern Ireland) 2011 applies to a determination under
subsection (1) (a)  of  this section  as it applies to a determination under
section 2(1)(a) of that Act.

10.5

For the purposes of any determination made by, or by virtue of provision made
by, the Assembly under section 48 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 so far as
relating to pensions, members are to be treated as having whatever salary they
would have had were it not for any determination made under  subsection (1)
(a)  of  this section .

10.6

A determination under  subsection (1)  may amend a determination made by, or
by virtue of provision made by, the Northern Ireland Assembly under section 47
or 48 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

10.7

A determination made by, or by virtue of provision made by, the Northern
Ireland Assembly under section 47 or 48 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 may
not change the effect of a determination made under  subsection (1) .

10.8

In  this section  “ period in which the Northern Ireland Assembly is not
functioning ” means—

10.8.a

the period beginning when this Act is passed and ending with the next day on
which the Presiding Officer and deputies are in post, or

10.8.b

any later period—

10.8.b.i

beginning with the first day after the end of the period in which an Assembly
must meet if, at the end of that period, the Presiding Officer and deputies
are not in post, and

10.8.b.ii

ending with the next day on which the Presiding Officer and deputies are in
post.

10.9

In subsection (8)—

10.9.a

a reference to a Presiding Officer or deputy being in post is a reference to
their being in post having been elected under section 39(1) of the Northern
Ireland Act 1998 after—

10.9.a.i

in the case of the reference in paragraph (a), this Act is passed, or

10.9.a.ii

in the case of a reference in paragraph (b), the day of the poll at which the
Assembly referred to in paragraph (b)(i) is elected;

10.9.b

a reference to the period in which an Assembly must meet is a reference to the
period referred to in section 31(4) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998.

10.10

The Northern Ireland Assembly Members (Pay) Act 2018 is repealed.

### Regional rate

#### Power to set the regional rate for 2023/24

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument set the
regional rate for the year ending 31 March 2024.

11.2

The power in  subsection (1)  may only be used during the current period in
which there is no Executive.

11.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  must specify the amount in the pound at
which the regional rate is to be levied.

11.4

Articles 6(3) to (6) and 7(4) and (5) of the Rates Order apply in relation to
the setting of a regional rate by regulations under  subsection (1)  as they
apply in relation to the setting of the rate by order under Article 7(1) of
the Rates Order (reading references to the Department of Finance as references
to the Secretary of State).

11.5

A reference in the Rates Order to the regional rate (except in a provision
applied by  subsection (4) ) is to be read as including a reference to the
regional rate set by the Secretary of State by regulations under  subsection
(1) .

11.6

A rate set under  subsection (1)  may be varied, after the end of the current
period in which there is no Executive, by an order made by the Department of
Finance under Article 7(1) of the Rates Order.

11.7

An order made by virtue of  subsection (6)  may set the rate in respect of the
whole of the year for which it is made.

11.8

A statutory instrument containing regulations under  subsection (1)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of the House of Commons.

11.9

In section 43(2) of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954, the
definition of “regional rate” is to be treated as including a reference to any
rate set by the Secretary of State under  subsection (1) .

11.10

In  this section —

“ current period in which there is no Executive ” means the period beginning
when this Act is passed and ending when an Executive is next formed; “ the
Rates Order ” means the Rates (Northern Ireland) Order 1977 ( S.I. 1977/2157
(N.I. 28) ).

### General

#### Interpretation

12

12.1

In this Act—

“ enactment ” includes any provision of, or of any instrument made under,
Northern Ireland legislation (within the meaning given by section 98 of the
Northern Ireland Act 1998); “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as
in the Ministers of the Crown Act 1975; “ Northern Ireland Minister ” includes
the First Minister and the deputy First Minister; “ senior officer of a
Northern Ireland department ” has the same meaning as in the Departments
(Northern Ireland) Order 1999 (see Article 2(3) of that Order).

12.2

For the purposes of this Act, an Executive is formed once the offices of First
Minister and deputy First Minister and those to be held by the other Northern
Ireland Ministers are all filled.

#### Extent

13

13.1

Section 11  extends to Northern Ireland only.

13.2

The other provisions of this Act extend to England and Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement

14

14.1

Sections 6  to  9  come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may
by regulations made by statutory instrument appoint.

14.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on the day on which this Act
is passed.

#### Short title

15

This Act may be cited as the Northern Ireland (Executive Formation etc) Act
2022.

