Title: Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022
Date: 2022-07-04
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/15

## Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Nuclear energy generation projects: regulated asset base model

#### Introductory

##### Key definitions for 

1

1.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Part.

1.2

“ Nuclear company ” means a company that holds an electricity generation
licence in respect of a nuclear energy generation project.

1.3

References to a “designated” nuclear company are to a nuclear company in
relation to which a designation under  section 2 (1)  has effect.

1.4

A nuclear company is a “relevant licensee nuclear company” if—

1.4.a

the company’s electricity generation licence contains modifications made under
section 6 (1) , and

1.4.b

the company is a party to a revenue collection contract.

1.5

“ Electricity generation licence ” means a licence under section 6(1)(a) of
the Electricity Act 1989.

#### Designation of nuclear company

##### Designation of nuclear company

2

2.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a nuclear company designate the
company in relation to a nuclear energy generation project in respect of which
the company holds an electricity generation licence (“the nuclear project”).

2.2

The Secretary of State may designate a nuclear company under  subsection (1)
only if the designation criteria are met in relation to the company.

2.3

The designation criteria are that—

2.3.a

the Secretary of State is of the opinion that the development of the nuclear
project is sufficiently advanced to justify the designation of the nuclear
company in relation to the project, and

2.3.b

the Secretary of State is of the opinion that designating the nuclear company
in relation to the project is likely to result in value for money.

2.4

In this Part, “ designation notice ” means a notice under  subsection (1) .

##### Designation: procedure

3

3.1

The Secretary of State must publish a statement setting out—

3.1.a

the procedure that the Secretary of State expects to follow in determining
whether to exercise the power under  section 2 (1) , and

3.1.b

how the Secretary of State expects to determine whether the designation
criteria mentioned in  section 2 (3)  are met.

3.2

Before designating a nuclear company under  section 2 (1) , the Secretary of
State must—

3.2.a

prepare draft reasons for the designation, and

3.2.b

consult the persons listed in  subsection (3)  (including on the draft
reasons).

3.3

Those persons are—

3.3.a

the nuclear company that the Secretary of State proposes to designate;

3.3.b

the Authority;

3.3.c

the Office for Nuclear Regulation;

3.3.d

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in England, the
Environment Agency;

3.3.e

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Wales, the Welsh
Ministers and Natural Resources Wales;

3.3.f

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Scotland, the
Scottish Ministers and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency;

3.3.g

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

3.4

A duty imposed by  subsection (1)  or  (2)  may be satisfied by things done
before the passing of this Act (as well as by things done after that time).

3.5

A designation notice must include—

3.5.a

a description of the nuclear project,

3.5.b

the Secretary of State’s reasons for the designation (amended as appropriate
in light of consultation under  subsection (2) (b) ),

3.5.c

details of any conditions imposed by the Secretary of State in relation to the
designation and of the consequences of a failure to comply with any such
condition, and

3.5.d

the date of the notice.

3.6

The Secretary of State must—

3.6.a

publish a designation notice, and

3.6.b

in addition to giving the designation notice to the nuclear company being
designated, give a copy of it to the other persons consulted under  subsection
(2) (b) .

##### Expiry of designation

4

4.1

The designation of a nuclear company under  section 2 (1)  ceases to have
effect—

4.1.a

on the expiry date, or

4.1.b

if the company enters into a revenue collection contract with a revenue
collection counterparty before the expiry date, at the end of the day on which
the revenue collection contract is entered into,

unless it ceases to have effect sooner in accordance with  section 5 (1)  or
(3) .

4.2

“ The expiry date ”, in relation to the designation of a particular nuclear
company, is—

4.2.a

the end of the period of 5 years beginning with the date of the designation
notice in question, or

4.2.b

where one or more notices under  subsection (3)  have been given to the
company, the end of the day specified in the last such notice.

4.3

The Secretary of State may, before the expiry date that for the time being
applies in relation to a designated nuclear company, give the company a notice
providing that the new expiry date for the company’s designation is a day
falling—

4.3.a

after that date, but

4.3.b

not more than 5 years from the date on which the notice is given to the
company.

4.4

Before giving a notice under  subsection (3) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

4.4.a

the designated nuclear company,

4.4.b

the Authority,

4.4.c

the Office for Nuclear Regulation,

4.4.d

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in England, the
Environment Agency,

4.4.e

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Wales, the Welsh
Ministers and Natural Resources Wales,

4.4.f

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Scotland, the
Scottish Ministers and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency, and

4.4.g

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

4.5

Where the designation of a nuclear company ceases to have effect in accordance
with  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must publish details of that
fact.

##### Revocation or lapse of designation

5

5.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to a designated nuclear company
revoke the company’s designation under  section 2 (1)  if—

5.1.a

the company ceases to hold an electricity generation licence in respect of the
nuclear energy generation project described in the designation notice, or

5.1.b

either of the designation criteria mentioned in  section 2 (3)  ceases to be
met in relation to the company.

5.2

Section 3 (2) ,  (5) (a) ,  (b)  and  (d)  and  (6)  applies (with necessary
modifications) in relation to the revocation under  subsection (1)  of a
nuclear company’s designation under  section 2 (1)  as it applies in relation
to the designation of a nuclear company under  section 2 (1) .

5.3

The designation of a nuclear company under  section 2 (1)  ceases to have
effect if—

5.3.a

by virtue of  section 3 (5) (c) , the designation notice specifies that
failure to comply with a particular condition to which the designation is
subject will result in the lapse of the designation, and

5.3.b

the Secretary of State gives the nuclear company a notice under this
subsection stating that the company has failed to comply with that condition.

5.4

Where the Secretary of State gives a notice to a nuclear company under
subsection (1)  or  (3) , the designation of the company ceases to have effect
at the end of the day on which the notice is given to the company.

5.5

The Secretary of State must publish a notice given to a nuclear company under
subsection (3) .

#### Licence modifications

##### Licence modifications: designated nuclear companies

6

6.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

6.1.a

a condition of a nuclear company’s electricity generation licence;

6.1.b

a term of a nuclear company’s electricity generation licence.

6.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  only for
the purpose of facilitating investment in the design, construction,
commissioning and operation of nuclear energy generation projects.

6.3

The power under  subsection (1)  may be exercised in relation to a nuclear
company only at a time when a designation under  section 2 (1)  has effect in
relation to the company.

6.4

When exercising the power under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have regard to—

6.4.a

the duties of the Secretary of State under sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the
Climate Change Act 2008 (carbon targets and budgets);

6.4.b

the interests of existing and future consumers of electricity, including their
interests in relation to the cost and security of supply of electricity;

6.4.c

costs, expenditure or liabilities of any description that the nuclear company
may reasonably be expected to incur in carrying out its activities;

6.4.d

the need to secure that the nuclear company is able to finance its activities;

6.4.e

the need to secure that the nuclear company has appropriate incentives in
relation to the carrying out of its activities;

6.4.f

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

6.5

Modifications made under  subsection (1) (a)  may include, for example—

6.5.a

provision about the revenue that the nuclear company may receive in respect of
its activities (the company’s “allowed revenue”);

6.5.b

provision about how the nuclear company’s allowed revenue is to be calculated;

6.5.c

provision about the amounts that the nuclear company is entitled to receive,
or is required to pay, under any revenue collection contract to which it is a
party;

6.5.d

provision about activities that the nuclear company must, may or may not carry
on;

6.5.e

provision about the management of the nuclear company’s activities, including
the manner in which they are carried out;

6.5.f

provision conferring functions on the Authority, including provision enabling
or requiring the nuclear company to refer for determination, decision or
approval by the Authority matters specified, or of a description specified, in
the licence;

6.5.g

provision enabling the nuclear company to refer to the CMA a decision of the
Authority falling within  section 10 (3)  (decisions relating to allowed
revenue);

6.5.h

provision for the amendment of the licence for the purpose of implementing a
determination or decision of the Authority or the CMA;

6.5.i

provision requiring the nuclear company to comply with any direction or
instruction, or to have regard to any guidance, given by the Authority in
relation to matters specified, or of a description specified, in the licence;

6.5.j

provision requiring the nuclear company to co-operate with the Authority and
to provide such information and assistance to the Authority as the Authority
may require for the purposes of carrying out any of its functions;

6.5.k

provision about the payment by the nuclear company, to the Authority or to the
CMA, of such amounts as may be determined by or in accordance with the
licence;

6.5.l

provision about relevant licensee nuclear company administration orders (as
defined in  section 31 (1) ), including provision about the raising of funds
for the purpose of meeting expenses arising by virtue of such an order;

6.5.m

provision about the disclosure or publication of information by the nuclear
company.

6.6

Modifications made under  subsection (1) (b)  may include, for example,
provision relating to the circumstances in which the nuclear company’s
electricity generation licence may be revoked.

6.7

The Secretary of State may modify—

6.7.a

the standard conditions incorporated in licences under section 6(1)(a) to (d)
of the Electricity Act 1989 by virtue of section 8A of that Act;

6.7.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences under
section 6(1)(a) to (d) of the Electricity Act 1989 or an agreement that gives
effect to a document so maintained.

6.8

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (7)  only if
the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so in consequence of, or
for purposes incidental or supplementary to, the making of a modification
under  subsection (1) .

6.9

Modifications made under  subsection (1)  or  (7)  do not take effect unless
the nuclear company whose licence is modified under  subsection (1)  enters
into a revenue collection contract with a revenue collection counterparty.

6.10

References in this section to the activities of a nuclear company are
references to the company’s activities in relation to the design,
construction, commissioning and operation of the nuclear project, including
its activities in complying with any obligations it has under an approved
funded decommissioning programme under Chapter 1 of Part 3 of the Energy Act
2008.

##### Licence modifications: relevant licensee nuclear companies

7

7.1

The Secretary of State may modify a condition of a relevant licensee nuclear
company’s electricity generation licence.

7.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under  subsection (1)  only if
the Secretary of State considers that—

7.2.a

the total expenditure expected to be incurred by the relevant licensee nuclear
company in order to complete the construction of the nuclear project is likely
to exceed any cap on such expenditure included in the licence, and

7.2.b

in consequence of  paragraph (a) , an adjustment is needed in relation to how
the company’s allowed revenue is to be calculated.

7.3

When exercising the power under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have regard to the matters mentioned in  section 6 (4) .

7.4

The power under  subsection (1)  may not be exercised in relation to a
relevant licensee nuclear company at any time after construction of the
nuclear project has been completed.

7.5

For the purposes of this section, construction of the nuclear project is to be
taken to have been completed on successful completion of such procedures and
tests relating to the project as constitute, at the time they are undertaken,
the usual industry standards and practices for nuclear energy generation
projects in order to demonstrate that they are capable of commercial
operations.

7.6

The Secretary of State must publish a statement setting out the procedure that
the Secretary of State expects to follow in determining whether to exercise
the power under subsection (1).

##### Procedure etc relating to modifications under section 

8

8.1

Before making a modification under a power conferred by  section 6 (1)  or
(7)  or  7 (1)  (a “relevant power”), the Secretary of State must consult—

8.1.a

the nuclear company whose licence is being modified,

8.1.b

the Authority,

8.1.c

the Office for Nuclear Regulation,

8.1.d

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in England, the
Environment Agency,

8.1.e

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Wales, the Welsh
Ministers and Natural Resources Wales,

8.1.f

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Scotland, the
Scottish Ministers and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency,

8.1.g

in the case of a modification under  section 6 (7) , other holders of a
licence being modified, and

8.1.h

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

8.2

In the case of the exercise of a power conferred by  section 6 (1)  or  (7) ,
subsection (1)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

8.3

A relevant power—

8.3.a

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases, or subject to
exceptions (including provision for a case to be excepted only so long as
specified conditions are satisfied);

8.3.b

may be exercised differently for different purposes;

8.3.c

includes power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or
transitional modifications.

8.4

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement described in
section 6 (7) (b) , by virtue of a relevant power—

8.4.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

8.4.b

need not relate to the activities authorised by the licence;

8.4.c

may do anything authorised for licences of that type by section 7(4), (5)(a)
or (6A) of the Electricity Act 1989.

8.5

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications made under a
relevant power as soon as reasonably practicable after they are made.

8.6

If under  section 6 (7)  the Secretary of State makes a modification of the
standard conditions of a licence, the Authority must—

8.6.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

8.6.b

publish the modification.

8.7

A modification made under a relevant power of part of a standard condition of
a licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing to
be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989.

8.8

The power conferred by a relevant power to “ modify ” (in relation to licence
conditions or terms or a document or agreement) includes power to amend, add
to or remove; and references to modifications are to be construed accordingly.

##### Expiry of modifications made under 

9

9.1

This section applies if the designation of a nuclear company under  section 2
(1)  ceases to have effect in accordance with—

9.1.a

section 4 (1) (a)  (expiry of designation), or

9.1.b

section 5 (1)  or  (3)  (revocation or lapse of designation).

9.2

Any modifications made under  section 6 (1)  of the nuclear company’s
electricity generation licence are to be treated, from the relevant time, as
not having been made.

9.3

If any modifications of licences were made under  section 6 (7)  in
consequence of, or for purposes incidental or supplementary to, the
modification under  section 6 (1)  of the nuclear company’s electricity
generation licence, those modifications are to be treated, from the relevant
time, as not having been made.

9.4

In subsections  (2)  and  (3) , “ the relevant time ” means the time when the
designation of the nuclear company ceases to have effect.

9.5

Where modifications are to be treated by subsection  (2)  or  (3)  as not
having been made, the Secretary of State must publish details of that fact.

##### Decisions relating to allowed revenue of relevant licensee nuclear company: appeals to CMA

10

10.1

This section applies where a relevant licensee nuclear company’s electricity
generation licence contains provision referred to in  section 6 (5) (g)
(provision enabling company to refer decisions of the Authority to the CMA).

10.2

Sections 11C to 11H of, and Schedule 5A to, the Electricity Act 1989 (appeal
to the CMA against a decision by the Authority) apply in relation to a
decision falling within  subsection (3)  below as they apply in relation to a
decision mentioned in section 11C(1) of that Act.

10.3

A decision falls within  this subsection  if—

10.3.a

the decision is made by the Authority in the exercise of its functions
relating to the regulation of a relevant licensee nuclear company,

10.3.b

in the CMA’s opinion, the decision relates to the allowed revenue of the
company, and

10.3.c

but for this section, the company could not under section 11C of the
Electricity Act 1989 bring an appeal against the decision.

10.4

In the application of the provisions of the Electricity Act 1989 mentioned in
subsection (2) —

10.4.a

section 11C has effect as if for subsection (2) there were substituted—

10.4.a.2

An appeal may be brought under this section only by a relevant licensee
nuclear company (within the meaning of  Part 1  of the Nuclear Energy
(Financing) Act 2022).

;

10.4.b

section 11E (4) (d) is to be ignored;

10.4.c

sections 11F and 11G apply to a decision falling within  subsection (3)  as
they apply to a price control decision as defined by section 11F(7);

10.4.d

paragraph 1 of Schedule 5A has effect as if for sub-paragraph (3) there were
substituted—

10.4.d.3

Any application for permission to appeal is not to be made after the end of 20
working days beginning with the first working day after the day on which the
Authority notifies its decision to the relevant licensee nuclear company.

;

10.4.e

paragraph 2 of Schedule 5A has effect as if, in sub-paragraph (2)(c), for the
words from the beginning to “(as the case may be)” there were substituted
“the relevant licensee nuclear company” .

#### Information

##### Provision of information to the Secretary of State

11

11.1

The Secretary of State may by notice require a nuclear company to provide to
the Secretary of State such information as the Secretary of State may
reasonably require in connection with the carrying out of the Secretary of
State’s functions under or by virtue of this Part.

11.2

Information required under  subsection (1)  must be provided in such form and
manner and at such time and place, and be accompanied or supplemented by such
explanations, as may be specified in the notice.

11.3

A nuclear company may not be required under this section to provide any
information that would be protected from disclosure or production in legal
proceedings on grounds of legal professional privilege or, in Scotland,
confidentiality of communications.

11.4

Except as provided by  subsection (5) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

11.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the nuclear company making the
disclosure, or

11.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

11.5

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, a requirement imposed under
subsection (1)  is to be taken into account).

##### Provision of information to or by the Authority

12

12.1

The Authority may provide to a person within  subsection (2)  such information
as the Authority considers necessary in connection with the exercise by the
Authority of its functions relating to the regulation of a relevant licensee
nuclear company.

12.2

The following persons are within this subsection—

12.2.a

the Office for Nuclear Regulation;

12.2.b

the national system operator;

12.2.c

a nuclear administrator appointed under  Part 3  in relation to the relevant
licensee nuclear company;

12.2.d

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in England, the
Environment Agency;

12.2.e

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Wales, Natural
Resources Wales;

12.2.f

where any part of the site for the nuclear project is in Scotland, the
Scottish Environment Protection Agency;

12.2.g

any other person with regulatory functions the exercise of which the Authority
considers relevant to the exercise by the Authority of its functions relating
to the regulation of a relevant licensee nuclear company.

12.3

The Authority may by notice request from a person within  subsection (2)  such
information as the Authority considers necessary in connection with the
exercise by the Authority of its functions relating to the regulation of a
relevant licensee nuclear company.

12.4

A person to whom a request is made under  subsection (3)  must, so far as
reasonably practicable, provide the requested information within such period,
and in such form and manner, as may be specified in the notice.

12.5

The Authority must reimburse a person to whom a request is made under
subsection (3)  for any costs reasonably incurred by the person in providing
the Authority with the requested information.

12.6

Except as provided by  subsection (7) , the disclosure of information under
this section does not breach—

12.6.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

12.6.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

12.7

This section does not authorise or require a disclosure of information if the
disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, the power conferred by
subsection (1)  or, as the case may be, a requirement imposed by virtue of
subsection (3)  is to be taken into account).

12.8

In this section—

      “ information ” includes advice;           “ national system operator ”
means the person operating the national transmission system for Great Britain
(and for this purpose “ transmission system ” has the same meaning as in the
Electricity Act 1989, as to which see section 4(4) of that Act).

#### Other

##### Sensitive material

13

13.1

The Secretary of State may exclude material to which subsection (2) applies
from—

13.1.a

draft reasons consulted on under  section 3 (2) (b)  (including as applied by
section 5 (2) ), or

13.1.b

anything required to be published under this Part.

13.2

This subsection applies to material the disclosure or publication of which the
Secretary of State considers—

13.2.a

would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of any person, or

13.2.b

would be contrary to the interests of national security.

##### Interpretation of 

14

14.1

In this Part—

      “ allowed revenue ” has the meaning given by  section 6 (5) (a) ;
“ the Authority ” means the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority;           “
the CMA ” means the Competition and Markets Authority;           “ company ”
means a company registered under the Companies Act 2006 in England and Wales
or Scotland;           “ the data protection legislation ” has the same
meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);
“ designated ”, in relation to a nuclear company, has the meaning given by
section 1 (3) ;           “ designation notice ” has the meaning given by
section 2 (4) ;           “ electricity generation licence ” has the meaning
given by  section 1 (5) ;           “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ nuclear company ” has the meaning given by  section 1 (2) ;           “ the
nuclear project ”, in relation to a nuclear company, has the meaning given by
section 2 (1) ;           “ relevant licensee nuclear company ” has the
meaning given by  section 1 (4) ;           “ revenue collection contract ”
and “revenue collection counterparty” have the same meaning as in  Part 2
(see  sections 15  and  16 ).

14.2

References in this Part to the site for a nuclear energy generation project
include references to the intended site for the project.

### Revenue collection contracts

#### Revenue collection contracts

##### Regulations about revenue collection contracts

15

15.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about revenue
collection contracts.

15.2

A revenue collection contract is a contract in relation to which all of the
following paragraphs apply—

15.2.a

the contract is between a revenue collection counterparty and a nuclear
company in relation to which, immediately before the contract was entered
into, a designation under  section 2 (1)  had effect;

15.2.b

certain payments under the contract are to be funded by electricity suppliers
(see further  section 19 );

15.2.c

those payments may be made both before and after the start of electricity
generation by the nuclear energy generation project in respect of which the
nuclear company holds a licence under section 6(1)(a) of the Electricity Act
1989;

15.2.d

the contract is entered into by the revenue collection counterparty in
pursuance of a direction given to it under  section 18 .

15.3

For the purposes of this Part—

      “ revenue collection counterparty ” is to be construed in accordance
with section  16 ;           “ revenue regulations ” means regulations under
this section.

15.4

The provision made by this Part is without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1).

15.5

Revenue regulations may—

15.5.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

15.5.b

make transitory or transitional provision or savings;

15.5.c

make different provision for different purposes;

15.5.d

make provision subject to exceptions.

15.6

Revenue regulations are to be made by statutory instrument.

15.7

An instrument containing—

15.7.a

the first revenue regulations that make provision falling within  section 23
or  24 , or

15.7.b

revenue regulations that make provision falling within any of sections  16  to
22 ,

may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before, and
approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament (in each case, whether
or not the regulations also make other provision).

15.8

Any other instrument containing revenue regulations is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

15.9

If, apart from this subsection, a draft of an instrument containing revenue
regulations would be treated for the purposes of the standing orders of either
House of Parliament as a hybrid instrument, it is to proceed in that House as
if it were not such an instrument.

##### Designation of a revenue collection counterparty

16

16.1

The Secretary of State may by notice given to an eligible person designate the
person to be a counterparty for revenue collection contracts.

16.2

A person designated under  subsection (1)  is referred to in this Part as a “
revenue collection counterparty ”.

16.3

A person is eligible if the person is—

16.3.a

a company registered under the Companies Act 2006 in England and Wales or
Scotland, or

16.3.b

a public authority, including a person any of whose functions are of a public
nature.

16.4

A designation may be made only with the consent of the person designated.

16.5

The Secretary of State may exercise the power to designate so that more than
one designation has effect under  subsection (1) , but only if the Secretary
of State considers it necessary for the purposes of ensuring that—

16.5.a

liabilities under a revenue collection contract are met,

16.5.b

arrangements entered into for purposes connected to a revenue collection
contract continue to operate, or

16.5.c

directions given to a revenue collection counterparty by virtue of this Part
continue to have effect.

16.6

A designation ceases to have effect if—

16.6.a

the Secretary of State revokes the designation by notice given to the person
designated (in which case the designation ends on the date specified in the
notice), or

16.6.b

the person withdraws consent to the designation by giving not less than 3
months’ notice in writing to the Secretary of State.

16.7

At any time after the first designation under  subsection (1)  has effect, the
Secretary of State must, so far as reasonably practicable, exercise the power
to designate so as to ensure that at least one designation has effect under
subsection (1) .

16.8

The Secretary of State must publish a notice given to a person under
subsection (1)  or  (6) (a) .

16.9

As soon as reasonably practicable after a designation ceases to have effect,
the Secretary of State must make a transfer scheme under  section 26  to
ensure the transfer of all rights and liabilities under any revenue collection
contract to which the person who has ceased to be a revenue collection
counterparty was a party.

16.10

Revenue regulations may include provision about the period of time for which,
and the circumstances in which, a person who has ceased to be a revenue
collection counterparty is to continue to be treated as a revenue collection
counterparty for the purposes of the regulations.

##### Duties of a revenue collection counterparty

17

17.1

A revenue collection counterparty must act in accordance with—

17.1.a

any direction given by the Secretary of State by virtue of this Part;

17.1.b

any provision included in revenue regulations.

17.2

Revenue regulations may make provision—

17.2.a

to require a revenue collection counterparty to enter into arrangements or to
offer to contract for purposes connected to a revenue collection contract;

17.2.b

specifying things that a revenue collection counterparty may or must do, or
things that a revenue collection counterparty may not do;

17.2.c

conferring on the Secretary of State further powers to direct a revenue
collection counterparty to do, or not to do, things specified in the
regulations or the direction.

17.3

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (2) (b)  or  (c)
includes provision requiring consultation with, or the consent of, the
Secretary of State in relation to—

17.3.a

the enforcement of obligations under a revenue collection contract;

17.3.b

a variation or termination of a revenue collection contract;

17.3.c

the settlement or compromise of a claim under a revenue collection contract;

17.3.d

the conduct of legal proceedings relating to a revenue collection contract;

17.3.e

the exercise of rights under a revenue collection contract.

17.4

A revenue collection counterparty must exercise the functions conferred by or
by virtue of this Part so as to ensure that it can meet its liabilities under
any revenue collection contract to which it is a party.

17.5

Revenue regulations must include such provision as the Secretary of State
considers necessary so as to ensure that a revenue collection counterparty can
meet its liabilities under any revenue collection contract to which it is a
party.

##### Direction to offer to contract

18

18.1

The Secretary of State may, in accordance with any provision made by revenue
regulations, direct a revenue collection counterparty to offer to contract
with a designated nuclear company specified in the direction, on terms
specified in the direction.

18.2

Revenue regulations may make further provision about a direction under this
section and in particular about—

18.2.a

the circumstances in which a direction may or must be given;

18.2.b

the terms that may or must be specified in a direction.

18.3

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (2)  includes
provision for calculations or determinations to be made under the regulations,
including provision for them to be made—

18.3.a

by such persons,

18.3.b

in accordance with such procedure, and

18.3.c

by reference to such matters and to the opinion of such persons,

as may be specified in the regulations.

18.4

The reference in  subsection (1)  to a designated nuclear company is a
reference to a nuclear company in relation to which a designation under
section 2 (1)  has effect.

#### Payment and other obligations relating to revenue collection contracts

##### Supplier obligation

19

19.1

Revenue regulations must make provision for electricity suppliers to pay a
revenue collection counterparty for the purpose of enabling the counterparty
to make payments under revenue collection contracts.

19.2

Revenue regulations may make provision for electricity suppliers to pay a
revenue collection counterparty for the purpose of enabling the counterparty—

19.2.a

to meet such other descriptions of its costs as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate;

19.2.b

to hold sums in reserve;

19.2.c

to cover losses in the case of insolvency or default of an electricity
supplier.

19.3

In  subsection (2) (a) , “ costs ” means costs in connection with the
performance of any function conferred by or by virtue of this Part.

19.4

Revenue regulations may make provision to require electricity suppliers to
provide financial collateral to a revenue collection counterparty (whether in
cash, securities or any other form).

19.5

Revenue regulations that make provision by virtue of  subsection (1)  for the
payment of sums by electricity suppliers must impose on a revenue collection
counterparty a duty in relation to the collection of such sums.

19.6

The provision that may be made by virtue of this section includes provision
for—

19.6.a

a revenue collection counterparty to determine the form and terms of any
financial collateral;

19.6.b

a revenue collection counterparty to calculate or determine, in accordance
with such criteria as may be provided for by or under the regulations, amounts
that are owed by an electricity supplier or are to be provided as financial
collateral by an electricity supplier;

19.6.c

the issuing of notices by a revenue collection counterparty to require the
payment or provision of such amounts;

19.6.d

the enforcement of obligations arising under such notices.

19.7

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (6) (b)  may provide for anything that
is to be calculated or determined under the regulations to be calculated or
determined—

19.7.a

by such persons,

19.7.b

in accordance with such procedure, and

19.7.c

by reference to such matters and to the opinion of such persons,

as may be specified in the regulations.

19.8

Provision made by virtue of  subsection (6) (d)  may include provision about—

19.8.a

costs;

19.8.b

interest on late payments under notices;

19.8.c

references to arbitration;

19.8.d

appeals.

19.9

Any sum that—

19.9.a

an electricity supplier is required by virtue of revenue regulations to pay to
a revenue collection counterparty, and

19.9.b

has not been paid by the date on which it is required by virtue of revenue
regulations to be paid,

may be recovered from the electricity supplier by the revenue collection
counterparty as a civil debt due to it.

##### Payments to electricity suppliers

20

20.1

Revenue regulations may make provision about the amounts that must be paid by
a revenue collection counterparty to electricity suppliers.

20.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of this section includes provision—

20.2.a

for a revenue collection counterparty to calculate or determine, in accordance
with such criteria as may be provided for by or under the regulations, amounts
that are owed by the revenue collection counterparty;

20.2.b

for anything that is to be calculated or determined under the regulations to
be calculated or determined—

20.2.b.i

by such persons,

20.2.b.ii

in accordance with such procedure, and

20.2.b.iii

by reference to such matters and to the opinion of such persons,

as may be specified in the regulations.

##### Application of sums held by a revenue collection counterparty

21

21.1

Revenue regulations may make provision for apportioning sums—

21.1.a

received by a revenue collection counterparty from electricity suppliers under
provision made by virtue of  section 19 ;

21.1.b

received by a revenue collection counterparty under a revenue collection
contract,

in circumstances where the revenue collection counterparty is unable to fully
meet its liabilities under a revenue collection contract.

21.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision about the meaning of “unable to fully meet its liabilities under a
revenue collection contract”.

21.3

In making provision by virtue of  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State must
have regard to the principle that sums should be apportioned in proportion to
the amounts that are owed.

21.4

Revenue regulations may make provision about the application of sums held by a
revenue collection counterparty.

21.5

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (4)  includes
provision that sums are to be paid, or not to be paid, into the Consolidated
Fund.

##### Enforcement

22

22.1

Revenue regulations may make provision for requirements under the regulations
to be enforceable by the Authority as if they were relevant requirements
imposed on a regulated person for the purposes of section 25 of the
Electricity Act 1989.

22.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision about the enforcement of requirements imposed on the national system
operator.

#### Information and advice

##### Information and advice

23

23.1

Revenue regulations may make provision about the provision and publication of
information and advice.

23.2

The provision that may be made by virtue of  subsection (1)  includes
provision—

23.2.a

for the Secretary of State to require a revenue collection counterparty, the
Authority or the national system operator to provide information or advice to
the Secretary of State or any other person specified in the regulations;

23.2.b

for the Secretary of State to require a relevant licensee nuclear company, or
a nuclear administrator (within the meaning of  Part 3 ), to provide
information to the Secretary of State or any other person specified in the
regulations;

23.2.c

for a revenue collection counterparty to require information to be provided to
it by electricity suppliers;

23.2.d

for the national system operator to require information to be provided to it
by a relevant licensee nuclear company;

23.2.e

for the Authority to require information to be provided to it by a revenue
collection counterparty or the national system operator;

23.2.f

for the sharing of information (otherwise than by virtue of  paragraph (e) )
between the Authority, a revenue collection counterparty and the national
system operator;

23.2.g

for the classification and protection of confidential or sensitive
information;

23.2.h

for the enforcement of any requirement imposed by virtue of  paragraphs (a)
to   (g) .

##### Functions of the Authority

24

Revenue regulations may make provision conferring functions on the Authority
for the purpose of offering advice to, or making determinations on behalf of,
a party to a revenue collection contract.

#### Consultation

##### Consultation

25

25.1

Before making revenue regulations, the Secretary of State must consult—

25.1.a

the Scottish Ministers,

25.1.b

the Welsh Ministers,

25.1.c

every nuclear company in relation to which a designation under  section 2 (1)
has effect,

25.1.d

every nuclear company that is a relevant licensee nuclear company,

25.1.e

every holder of a licence to supply electricity under section 6(1)(d) of the
Electricity Act 1989,

25.1.f

the Authority,

25.1.g

the national system operator, and

25.1.h

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

25.2

Subsection (1)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

#### Transfer schemes

##### Revenue collection counterparties: transfer schemes

26

26.1

The Secretary of State may make one or more schemes for the transfer of
designated property, rights or liabilities of a person who has ceased to be a
revenue collection counterparty (“ the transferor ”) to a person who is a
revenue collection counterparty (“ the transferee ”).

26.2

On the transfer date, the designated property, rights and liabilities are
transferred and vest in accordance with the scheme.

26.3

The rights and liabilities that may be transferred by a scheme include those
arising under or in connection with a contract of employment.

26.4

A certificate by the Secretary of State that anything specified in the
certificate has vested in any person by virtue of a scheme is conclusive
evidence for all purposes of that fact.

26.5

A scheme may make provision—

26.5.a

for anything done by or in relation to the transferor in connection with any
property, rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme to be treated as
done, or to be continued, by or in relation to the transferee;

26.5.b

for references to the transferor in any agreement (whether written or not),
instrument or other document relating to any property, rights or liabilities
transferred by the scheme to be treated as references to the transferee;

26.5.c

about the continuation of legal proceedings;

26.5.d

for transferring property, rights or liabilities that could not otherwise be
transferred or assigned;

26.5.e

for transferring property, rights and liabilities irrespective of any
requirement for consent that would otherwise apply;

26.5.f

for preventing a right of pre-emption, right of reverter, right of forfeiture,
right to compensation or other similar right from arising or becoming
exercisable as a result of the transfer of property, rights or liabilities;

26.5.g

for dispensing with any formality in relation to the transfer of property,
rights or liabilities by the scheme;

26.5.h

for transferring property acquired, or rights or liabilities arising, after
the scheme is made but before it takes effect;

26.5.i

for apportioning property, rights or liabilities;

26.5.j

for creating rights, or imposing liabilities, in connection with property,
rights or liabilities transferred by the scheme;

26.5.k

for requiring the transferee to enter into any agreement of any kind, or for a
purpose, specified in or determined in accordance with the scheme.

26.6

Subsection  (5) (b)  does not apply to references in—

26.6.a

primary legislation, or

26.6.b

an instrument made under primary legislation.

26.7

A scheme may contain provision for the payment of compensation by the
Secretary of State to any person whose interests are adversely affected by it.

26.8

A transfer scheme may—

26.8.a

include incidental, supplementary or consequential provision;

26.8.b

make transitory or transitional provision or savings;

26.8.c

make different provision for different purposes;

26.8.d

make provision subject to exceptions.

26.9

In this section—

      “ designated ”, in relation to a scheme, means specified in or
determined in accordance with the scheme;           “ primary legislation ”
means—         an Act of Parliament,           an Act of the Scottish
Parliament,           an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, or           Northern
Ireland legislation;                 “ property ” includes interests of any
description;           “ the transfer date ” means a date specified by a
scheme as the date on which the scheme is to have effect.

##### Modification of transfer schemes

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may modify a transfer scheme made under  section 26 ,
subject to  subsection (2) .

27.2

If a transfer under the scheme has taken effect, any modification under
subsection (1)  that relates to the transfer may be made only with the
agreement of the transferor or transferee affected by the modification (or,
where both the transferor and transferee are affected, with the agreement of
both of them).

27.3

A modification takes effect from such date as the Secretary of State may
specify (which may be the date when the original scheme came into effect).

#### Miscellaneous and interpretation

##### Shadow directors, etc

28

The Secretary of State is not, by virtue of the exercise of a power conferred
by or by virtue of this Part, to be regarded as—

28.a

a person occupying the position of director in relation to a revenue
collection counterparty;

28.b

a person in accordance with whose directions or instructions the directors of
a revenue collection counterparty are accustomed to act;

28.c

exercising any function of management in a revenue collection counterparty;

28.d

a principal of a revenue collection counterparty.

##### Licence modifications

29

29.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

29.1.a

a condition of a particular licence under section 6(1)(b) or (c) of the
Electricity Act 1989 (transmission and distribution licences);

29.1.b

the standard conditions incorporated in licences under section 6(1)(b) or (c)
of the Electricity Act 1989 by virtue of section 8A of that Act;

29.1.c

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences under
section 6(1)(b) or (c) of the Electricity Act 1989 or an agreement that gives
effect to a document so maintained.

29.2

The Secretary of State may make a modification under  subsection (1)  only for
the purpose of—

29.2.a

allowing or requiring services to be provided to a revenue collection
counterparty;

29.2.b

enforcing obligations under a revenue collection contract.

29.3

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of  subsection (1)  may in particular include provision of
a kind that may be included in revenue regulations.

29.4

Before making a modification under  subsection (1) , the Secretary of State
must consult—

29.4.a

the Scottish Ministers,

29.4.b

the Welsh Ministers,

29.4.c

the holder of any licence being modified,

29.4.d

every holder of a licence to supply electricity under section 6(1)(d) of the
Electricity Act 1989,

29.4.e

the Authority, and

29.4.f

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

29.5

Subsection (4)  may be satisfied by consultation before the passing of this
Act (as well as by consultation after that time).

29.6

The power under  subsection (1) —

29.6.a

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases or subject to
exceptions (including provision for a case to be excepted only so long as
specified conditions are satisfied);

29.6.b

may be exercised differently for different purposes;

29.6.c

includes power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or
transitional modifications.

29.7

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement relating to
licences, by virtue of  subsection (1) —

29.7.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

29.7.b

need not relate to the activities authorised by the licence;

29.7.c

may do anything authorised for licences of that type by section 7(2A), (3),
(4), (5) or (6A) of the Electricity Act 1989.

29.8

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications made under
subsection (1)  as soon as reasonably practicable after they are made.

29.9

If under  subsection (1)  the Secretary of State makes a modification of the
standard conditions of a licence, the Authority must—

29.9.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

29.9.b

publish the modification.

29.10

A modification made under  subsection (1)  of part of a standard condition of
a licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from continuing to
be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989.

29.11

The power conferred by  subsection (1)  to “ modify ” (in relation to licence
conditions or a document or agreement) includes power to amend, add to or
remove, and references to modifications are to be construed accordingly.

##### Interpretation of 

30

In this Part—

      “ the Authority ” means the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority;
“ electricity supplier ”, subject to any provision made by revenue
regulations, means a person who is a holder of a licence to supply electricity
under section 6(1)(d) of the Electricity Act 1989;           “ functions ”
includes powers and duties;           “ national system operator ” means the
person operating the national transmission system for Great Britain (and for
this purpose “ transmission system ” has the same meaning as in the
Electricity Act 1989, as to which see section 4(4) of that Act);           “
nuclear company ” and “relevant licensee nuclear company” have the same
meaning as in  Part 1 .

### Special administration regime

#### Relevant licensee nuclear company administration orders

##### Relevant licensee nuclear company administration orders

31

31.1

A relevant licensee nuclear company administration order (referred to in this
Part as an “ RLNC administration order ”)  means an order which—

31.1.a

is made by the court in relation to a relevant licensee nuclear company;

31.1.b

directs that, while the order is in force, the affairs, business and property
of the company are to be managed by a person appointed by the court.

31.2

The person appointed in relation to a company for the purposes of an RLNC
administration order is referred to in this Part as the nuclear administrator
of the company.

31.3

The nuclear administrator of a company must manage the company’s affairs,
business and property, and exercise and perform all the powers and duties of a
nuclear administrator, so as to achieve the objective set out in section  32 .

31.4

In this Part—

      “ relevant licence ”, in relation to a relevant licensee nuclear
company, means the company’s electricity generation licence (within the
meaning of  Part 1 );           “ relevant licensee nuclear company ” has the
same meaning as in  Part 1 .

##### Objective of a relevant licensee nuclear company administration

32

32.1

The objective of a relevant licensee nuclear company administration is to
secure—

32.1.a

that electricity generation commences, or continues, at the nuclear
installation in respect of which the relevant licensee nuclear company to
which the administration relates holds a relevant licence, and

32.1.b

that it becomes unnecessary, by one or both of the following means, for the
RLNC administration order to remain in force for that purpose.

32.2

Those means are—

32.2.a

the rescue as a going concern of the company subject to the RLNC
administration order, and

32.2.b

transfers falling within subsection  (3) .

32.3

A transfer falls within this subsection if it is a transfer as a going
concern—

32.3.a

to another company, or

32.3.b

as respects different parts of the undertaking of the company subject to the
RLNC administration order, to two or more different companies,

of so much of that undertaking as it is appropriate to transfer for the
purpose of achieving the objective of the relevant licensee nuclear company
administration.

32.4

The means by which transfers falling within subsection  (3)  may be effected
include, in particular—

32.4.a

a transfer of the undertaking of the company subject to the RLNC
administration order, or of a part of its undertaking, to a wholly-owned
subsidiary of that company, and

32.4.b

a transfer to a company of securities of a wholly-owned subsidiary to which
there has been a transfer falling within paragraph  (a) .

32.5

The objective of a relevant licensee nuclear company administration may be
achieved by a transfer falling within subsection  (3)  to the extent only
that—

32.5.a

the rescue as a going concern of the company subject to the RLNC
administration order is not reasonably practicable or is not reasonably
practicable without such a transfer,

32.5.b

the rescue of that company as a going concern will not achieve that objective
or will not do so without such a transfer,

32.5.c

such a transfer would produce a result for the company’s creditors as a whole
that is better than the result that would be produced without it, or

32.5.d

such a transfer would, without prejudicing the interests of those creditors as
a whole, produce a result for the company's members as a whole that is better
than the result that would be produced without it.

32.6

In this section, “ nuclear installation ” has the same meaning as in the
Nuclear Installations Act 1965.

#### Application and amendment of the Energy Act 2004

##### Application of certain provisions of the Energy Act 2004

33

33.1

Sections 156 to 167 of, and Schedules 20 and 21 to, the Energy Act 2004
(special administration regime for energy licensees) apply in relation to an
RLNC administration order as they apply in relation to an energy
administration order within the meaning given by section 154(1) of that Act,
but with the modifications set out in  subsections (2)  to  (5) .

33.2

In the application of those provisions generally—

33.2.a

for “energy administration”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“relevant licensee nuclear company administration” ;

33.2.b

for “energy administrator”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“nuclear administrator” ;

33.2.c

for “a protected energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“a relevant licensee nuclear company” .

33.3

In the application of sections 156 to 167—

33.3.a

in section 156(4), omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” before it);

33.3.b

in section 157 omit—

33.3.b.i

subsection (7), and

33.3.b.ii

paragraph (b) of subsection (8) (and the “or” before it);

33.3.c

in section 164, omit subsection (2).

33.4

In the application of Schedule 20—

33.4.a

omit paragraph 1(2);

33.4.b

in paragraph 32(1)(d), for the words from ““energy administration
application”” to “Energy Act 2004” substitute  ““ relevant licensee nuclear
company administration application ” means an application to the court for a
relevant licensee nuclear company administration order under Chapter 3 of Part
3 of the Energy Act 2004, as applied by section  33  of the Nuclear Energy
(Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.4.c

in paragraph 32(1)(e), for “section 155 of the Energy Act 2004” substitute
“section  32  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.4.d

omit Part 3;

33.4.e

omit paragraph 42(1);

33.4.f

in paragraph 43, after “the Energy Act 2004” insert  “and section  33  of the
Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.4.g

in paragraph 44(5), after “the Energy Act 2004” insert  “and section  33  of
the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.4.h

in paragraph 45, after “section 157(1)(e) of this Act” insert  “as applied by
section  33  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.4.i

omit paragraph 46 (but see section  38  of this Act);

33.4.j

in paragraph 47, after “Part 1 of this Schedule” insert  “and section  33  of
the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” .

33.5

In the application of Schedule 21—

33.5.a

for “old energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “old
relevant licensee nuclear company” ;

33.5.b

 for “new energy company”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “new
relevant licensee nuclear company” ;

33.5.c

in paragraph 1(b), for “section 155(3)” substitute  “section  32 (3)  of the
Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” ;

33.5.d

in paragraphs 3(8) and 9(6), for “GEMA” substitute

—

33.5.d.a

GEMA,

33.5.d.b

the Office for Nuclear Regulation,

33.5.d.c

where any part of the relevant site is in England, the Environment Agency,

33.5.d.d

where any part of the relevant site is in Wales, the Welsh Ministers and
Natural Resources Wales,

33.5.d.e

where any part of the relevant site is in Scotland, the Scottish Ministers and
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency, and

33.5.d.f

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate,

and in this sub-paragraph, the “relevant site” is the site of the nuclear
installation (within the meaning of the Nuclear Installations Act 1965) in
respect of which the old relevant licensee nuclear company holds a relevant
licence.

33.5.e

omit paragraph 10;

33.5.f

in paragraph 12, for “section 155” substitute  “section  32  of the Nuclear
Energy (Financing) Act 2022” .

33.6

Sections 171 and 196 of the Energy Act 2004 (interpretation) apply for the
purposes of the application by subsection  (1)  of the provisions mentioned in
that subsection, but with the modifications set out in subsection  (7) .

33.7

In the application of section 171(1)—

33.7.a

in the definition of “company”, omit paragraph (b) (and the “or” before it);

33.7.b

omit the definition of “non-GB company”;

33.7.c

insert, at the appropriate places, the following definitions—

      “ objective of the relevant licensee nuclear company administration ” is
to be construed in accordance with section  32  of the Nuclear Energy
(Financing) Act 2022;

;

      “ relevant licensee nuclear company ” has the meaning given by section
31 (4)  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;

;

      “ relevant licensee nuclear company administration order ” has the
meaning given by section  31 (1)  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;

;

      “ relevant licensee nuclear company administration rules ” means the
rules made under section 411 of the 1986 Act by virtue of section 159(3) of
this Act, for the purpose of giving effect to this Chapter as applied by
section  33  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;

;

33.7.d

for the definition of “energy administrator” substitute—

      “ nuclear administrator ” has the meaning given by section  39  of the
Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;

;

33.7.e

for the definition of “relevant licence” substitute—

      “ relevant licence ” has the meaning given by section  31 (4)  of the
Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022.

;

33.7.f

omit the definition of “unregistered company”.

##### Conduct of administration, transfer schemes, etc

34

In section 159(3) of the Energy Act 2004 (conduct of administration, transfer
schemes, etc under Chapter 3 of Part 3 of that Act), for “or section 4 of the
Smart Meters Act 2018” substitute  “, section 4 of the Smart Meters Act 2018
or section  33  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” .

#### Licence modifications

##### Licence modifications: relevant licensee nuclear company administration

35

35.1

The Secretary of State may modify—

35.1.a

a condition of a relevant licensee nuclear company’s relevant licence;

35.1.b

a term of a relevant licensee nuclear company’s relevant licence.

35.2

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under subsection  (1)  only—

35.2.a

if an RLNC administration order is in force in relation to the relevant
licensee nuclear company, and

35.2.b

for the purpose of furthering the objective of a relevant licensee nuclear
company administration.

35.3

When exercising the power under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of State must
have regard to—

35.3.a

the duties of the Secretary of State under sections 1 and 4(1)(b) of the
Climate Change Act 2008 (carbon targets and budgets);

35.3.b

the interests of existing and future consumers of electricity, including their
interests in relation to the cost and security of supply of electricity;

35.3.c

costs, expenditure or liabilities of any description that the relevant
licensee nuclear company may reasonably be expected to incur in carrying out
its activities;

35.3.d

the need to secure that the relevant licensee nuclear company is able to
finance its activities;

35.3.e

the need to secure that the relevant licensee nuclear company has appropriate
incentives in relation to the carrying out of its activities;

35.3.f

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

35.4

Modifications made under subsection  (1) (a)  may include, for example—

35.4.a

provision about the revenue that the relevant licensee nuclear company may
receive in respect of its activities;

35.4.b

provision about how the relevant licensee nuclear company’s revenue referred
to in paragraph  (a)  is to be calculated;

35.4.c

provision about the amounts that the relevant licensee nuclear company is
entitled to receive, or is required to pay, under any revenue collection
contract (within the meaning of  Part 2 ) to which it is a party;

35.4.d

provision requiring the relevant licensee nuclear company to co-operate with
the Authority and to provide such information and assistance to the Authority
as the Authority may require for the purposes of carrying out any of its
functions;

35.4.e

provision about RLNC administration orders, including provision about the
raising of funds for the purpose of meeting expenses arising by virtue of such
an order;

35.4.f

provision about the disclosure or publication of information by the relevant
licensee nuclear company.

35.5

The Secretary of State may modify—

35.5.a

the standard conditions incorporated in licences under section 6(1)(a) to (d)
of the Electricity Act 1989 by virtue of section 8A of that Act;

35.5.b

a document maintained in accordance with the conditions of licences under
section 6(1)(a) to (d) of the Electricity Act 1989 or an agreement that gives
effect to a document so maintained.

35.6

The Secretary of State may exercise the power under subsection  (5)  only if
the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so in consequence of, or
for purposes incidental or supplementary to, the making of a modification
under subsection  (1) .

35.7

References in this section to the activities of a relevant licensee nuclear
company are references to the company’s activities in relation to the design,
construction, commissioning and operation of the nuclear energy generation
project in respect of which it holds a relevant licence, including its
activities in complying with any obligations it has under an approved funded
decommissioning programme under Chapter 1 of Part 3 of the Energy Act 2008.

##### Procedure etc relating to modifications under 

36

36.1

Before making a modification under a power conferred by section  35 (1)  or
(5) , the Secretary of State must consult—

36.1.a

the nuclear administrator (including as agent of the relevant licensee nuclear
company),

36.1.b

the Authority,

36.1.c

the Office for Nuclear Regulation,

36.1.d

where any part of the relevant site is in England, the Environment Agency,

36.1.e

where any part of the relevant site is in Wales, the Welsh Ministers and
Natural Resources Wales,

36.1.f

where any part of the relevant site is in Scotland, the Scottish Ministers and
the Scottish Environment Protection Agency,

36.1.g

in the case of a modification under section  35 (5) , other holders of a
licence being modified, and

36.1.h

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

36.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , the “relevant site” is the site of the
nuclear installation (within the meaning of the Nuclear Installations Act
1965) in respect of which the relevant licensee nuclear company holds a
relevant licence.

36.3

The powers under  section 35 (1)  and  (5) —

36.3.a

may be exercised generally, only in relation to specified cases, or subject to
exceptions (including provision for a case to be excepted only so long as
specified conditions are satisfied);

36.3.b

may be exercised differently for different purposes;

36.3.c

include a power to make incidental, supplementary, consequential or
transitional modifications.

36.4

Provision included in a licence, or in a document or agreement described in
section 35 (5) (b) , by virtue of  section 35 (1)  or  (5) —

36.4.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

36.4.b

need not relate to the activities authorised by the licence;

36.4.c

may do anything authorised for licences of that type by section 7(4), (5)(a)
or (6A) of the Electricity Act 1989.

36.5

The Secretary of State must publish details of any modifications made under
section 35 (1)  or  (5)  as soon as reasonably practicable after they are
made.

36.6

The Secretary of State may exclude from publication under  subsection (5)
anything the publication of which the Secretary of State considers—

36.6.a

would be likely to prejudice the commercial interests of any person, or

36.6.b

would be contrary to the interests of national security.

36.7

If under  section 35 (5)  the Secretary of State makes a modification of the
standard conditions of a licence, the Authority must—

36.7.a

make the same modification of those standard conditions for the purposes of
their incorporation in licences of that type granted after that time, and

36.7.b

publish the modification.

36.8

A modification made under  section 35 (1)  or  (5)  of part of a standard
condition of a licence does not prevent any other part of the condition from
continuing to be regarded as a standard condition for the purposes of Part 1
of the Electricity Act 1989.

#### Powers to modify enactments

##### Modification under the Enterprise Act 2002

37

37.1

The power to modify or apply enactments conferred on the Secretary of State by
each of sections 248 and 277 of the Enterprise Act 2002 (amendments
consequential on that Act) includes power to make such consequential
modifications of this Part as the Secretary of State considers appropriate in
connection with any other provision made under that section.

37.2

In section 170(1) of the Energy Act 2004 (modification of Chapter 3 of Part 3
of that Act under the Enterprise Act 2002), for “or section 4 of the Smart
Meters Act 2018” substitute  “, section 4 of the Smart Meters Act 2018 or
section  33  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022” . 

##### Power to make further modifications of insolvency legislation

38

38.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

38.1.a

provide for insolvency legislation to apply in relation to any provision made
by or under this Part;

38.1.b

make such modifications of insolvency legislation as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate in relation to any provision made by or under this Part
(including any insolvency legislation that is applied under paragraph  (a) ).

38.2

In relation to regulations under subsection  (1) , “ insolvency legislation ”
means—

38.2.a

the Insolvency Act 1986,

38.2.b

Chapter 3 of Part 3 of the Energy Act 2004, and 

38.2.c

any other provision that relates to insolvency, or makes provision by
reference to anything that is or may be done under the Insolvency Act 1986,
and is—

38.2.c.i

contained in an Act passed before this Act or in the same Session, or

38.2.c.ii

made under an Act before the regulations come into force. 

38.3

Provision made under subsection  (1)  may amend this Part.

38.4

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

38.5

Regulations under this section must not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

#### Interpretation

##### Interpretation of 

39

39.1

In this Part—

      “ the Authority ” means the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority;
“ business ”, “ member ” and “ property ” have the same meanings as in the
Insolvency Act 1986;           “ company ” means a company registered under
the Companies Act 2006 in England and Wales or Scotland;           “ court ”,
in relation to a company, means the court—         having jurisdiction to wind
up the company, or           that would have such jurisdiction apart from
section 221(2) or 441(2) of the Insolvency Act 1986 (exclusion of winding up
jurisdiction in case of companies having principal place of business in, or
incorporated in, Northern Ireland);                 “ functions ” includes
powers and duties;           “ modification ” includes omission, addition or
alteration, and cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly;
“ nuclear administrator ” has the meaning given by section  31 (2)  and is to
be construed in accordance with subsection  (2)  of this section;           “
objective of a relevant licensee nuclear company administration ” is to be
construed in accordance with section  32 ;           “ relevant licence ” has
the meaning given by section  31 (4) ;           “ relevant licensee nuclear
company ” has the same meaning as in  Part 1 ;           “ RLNC administration
order ” (or “relevant licensee nuclear company administration order”) has the
meaning given by section  31 (1) ;           “ subsidiary ” and “wholly-owned
subsidiary” have the meaning given by section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006.

39.2

In this Part references to the nuclear administrator of a company—

39.2.a

include references to a person appointed under paragraph 91 or 103 of Schedule
B1 to the Insolvency Act 1986, as applied by Part 1 of Schedule 20 to the
Energy Act 2004 and section  33  of this Act to be the nuclear administrator
of that company, and

39.2.b

where two or more persons are appointed to be the nuclear administrator of
that company, are to be construed in accordance with the provision made under
section 158(5) of the Energy Act 2004, as applied by section  33  of this Act.

### Miscellaneous and final provisions

#### Decommissioning of nuclear sites: bodies corporate not “associated”

40

40.1

In section 67 of the Energy Act 2008 (meaning of “ associated ” for the
purposes of Chapter 1 of Part 3 of that Act), after subsection (7) insert—

40.1.8

This section is subject to section 67A.

40.2

After section 67 of that Act insert—

########## Meaning of “associated”: supplementary

40.2.67A

40.2.67A.1

In determining whether, by virtue of section 67, A has a significant interest
in B, the following are to be disregarded—

40.2.67A.1.a

relevant share security rights that A holds in relation to B;

40.2.67A.1.b

subject to  subsection (4) , shares in B that are acquired by A in consequence
of the exercise of relevant share security rights that A holds in relation to
B;

40.2.67A.1.c

any power that A has, directly or indirectly, to secure that the affairs of B
are conducted in accordance with A’s wishes by virtue of—

40.2.67A.1.c.i

relevant share security rights that A holds in relation to B,

40.2.67A.1.c.ii

arrangements that are designed to facilitate the exercise of relevant share
security rights that A holds in relation to B, or

40.2.67A.1.c.iii

relevant asset security rights that A holds in relation to B, if A also holds
relevant share security rights in relation to B.

40.2.67A.2

A holds “ relevant share security rights ” in relation to B if A holds—

40.2.67A.2.a

rights to enforce a security interest over shares in B,

40.2.67A.2.b

rights relating to enforcement of a security interest over shares in B, or

40.2.67A.2.c

rights that enable A to preserve the value of a security interest over shares
in B.

40.2.67A.3

A holds “ relevant asset security rights ” in relation to B if A holds—

40.2.67A.3.a

rights to enforce a security interest over any of B’s assets,

40.2.67A.3.b

rights relating to enforcement of a security interest over any of B’s assets,
or

40.2.67A.3.c

rights that enable A to preserve the value of a security interest over any of
B’s assets.

40.2.67A.4

Subsection (1) (b)  does not apply if the shares acquired by A are retained by
A for a purpose other than that of preserving the value of the security
interest in question or of realising it.

40.2.67A.5

In this section—

40.2.67A.5.a

a reference to “ shares ” includes a reference to rights attached to shares;

40.2.67A.5.b

a reference to A holding rights in relation to B includes a reference to—

40.2.67A.5.b.i

A holding those rights on trust for another person, and

40.2.67A.5.b.ii

A being the beneficiary of a trust of those rights;

40.2.67A.5.c

a reference to A acquiring shares in B includes a reference to—

40.2.67A.5.c.i

A acquiring shares in B to hold on trust for another person, and

40.2.67A.5.c.ii

another person acquiring shares in B to hold on trust for A;

40.2.67A.5.d

a reference to rights includes a reference to powers.

#### Financial provision

41

41.1

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

41.1.a

any expenditure incurred by the Secretary of State by virtue of this Act;

41.1.b

any expenditure incurred by the Competition and Markets Authority by virtue of
this Act;

41.1.c

any expenditure incurred by the Authority by virtue of this Act;

41.1.d

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable out of money so
provided under any other Act.

41.2

The expenditure referred to in  subsection (1) (a)  includes expenditure
incurred by the Secretary of State for the purposes of or in connection with—

41.2.a

the establishment of a revenue collection counterparty;

41.2.b

making payments or providing financial assistance to a revenue collection
counterparty;

41.2.c

making payments to a nuclear administrator or a relevant licensee nuclear
company under or by virtue of  Part 3 .

41.3

Financial assistance or payments includes financial assistance or payments
given subject to such conditions as may be determined by, or in accordance
with arrangements made by, the Secretary of State; and such conditions may in
particular in the case of a grant include conditions for repayment in
specified circumstances.

41.4

In this section—

      “ financial assistance ” means grants, loans, guarantees or indemnities,
or any other kind of financial assistance;           “ nuclear administrator ”
has the same meaning as in  Part 3 ;           “ relevant licensee nuclear
company ” has the same meaning as in  Part 1 ;           “ revenue collection
counterparty ” has the same meaning as in  Part 2 .

#### Minor and consequential provision

42

The Schedule  contains minor and consequential provision.

#### Extent

43

43.1

The following provisions extend to England and Wales and Scotland—

43.1.a

Parts  1  to  3 ;

43.1.b

section  42  (including  the Schedule ).

43.2

Section 40  extends to England and Wales and Northern Ireland.

43.3

The following provisions extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland—

43.3.a

section  41 ;

43.3.b

this section and sections  44  and  45 .

#### Commencement

44

44.1

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

44.1.a

in  Part 1 , sections  1  to  5,  11 ,  13  and  14 ;

44.1.b

section  16 ;

44.1.c

Part 3  (for the purposes of making rules under section 411 of the Insolvency
Act 1986 Act as applied by section 159(3) of the Energy Act 2004 and section
33 (1)  of this Act);

44.1.d

section 40 ;

44.1.e

sections  41  and  43 , this section and section  45 .

44.2

The following provisions come into force at the end of the period of 2 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

44.2.a

in  Part 1 , sections  6  to  10  and  12 ;

44.2.b

Part  2  (other than  section 16 );

44.2.c

Part 3  (except as mentioned in  subsection (1) (c) );

44.2.d

section 42  (including  the Schedule ).

#### Short title

45

This Act may be cited as the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022.

  Minor and consequential provision

Section 42

##### Electricity Act 1989

1

1.1

The Electricity Act 1989 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 3A (principal objective and general duties of the Secretary of
State and the Authority), in subsection (2)(b), for “or Part 2 of the Energy
Act 2013” substitute  “, Part 2 of the Energy Act 2013 or the Nuclear Energy
(Financing) Act 2022” .

1.3

In section 6 (licences authorising supply, etc)—

1.3.a

after subsection (6C) insert—

1.3.a.6D

The Authority may, with the consent of a relevant licensee nuclear company
(within the meaning of  Part 1  of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022
(nuclear energy generation projects: regulated asset base model)), modify
terms included in the company’s generation licence.

;

1.3.b

in subsection (7), for “or (6B)” substitute  “, (6B) or (6D)” .

##### Utilities Act 2000

2

2.1

The Utilities Act 2000 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 33 (standard conditions of electricity licences), in subsection
(1)—

2.2.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (g), and

2.2.b

for the paragraphs after paragraph (g) substitute—

2.2.b.h

under section 6 of the Smart Meters Act 2018,

2.2.b.i

under section 1 or 10 of the Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff Cap) Act
2018, or

2.2.b.j

under the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022.

2.3

In section 105 (general restrictions on disclosure of information)—

2.3.a

in subsection (1), after “2018” insert  “or the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act
2022” ;

2.3.b

in subsection (3), after paragraph (azb) insert—

2.3.b.azc

it is made for the purpose of facilitating the performance of any functions of
the Authority under or by virtue of the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022;

.

##### Energy Act 2004

3

In section 137 of the Energy Act 2004 (new standard conditions for
transmission licences), in subsection (3)—

3.a

omit the “or” after paragraph (e), and

3.b

after paragraph (f) insert

or

3.b.g

under the Nuclear Energy (Financing) Act 2022,

.

##### Consequential repeals

4

The following provisions are repealed—

4.a

section 6(10)(b) of the Smart Meters Act 2018;

4.b

section 11(2) of the Domestic Gas and Electricity (Tariff Cap) Act 2018.

