Title: Organ and Tissue Donation (Deemed Consent) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-04-12
Description: Amend the Human Tissue Act 2004 concerning consent to activities done for the purpose of transplantation and make consequential amendments about the provision of information about such consent.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/10

## Organ and Tissue Donation (Deemed Consent) Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by Her Majesty as follows:

### “Appropriate consent” to adult transplant activities

1

1.1

Section 3 of the Human Tissue Act 2004 (“appropriate consent”: adults) is
amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (5).

1.2

In subsection (6)—

1.2.a

in paragraph (ba), after “(6A)” insert  “or (6AA)” ;

1.2.b

in paragraph (c), after “(6A)” insert  “or (6AA)” .

1.3

After subsection (6A), insert—

1.3.6AA

This subsection applies to the following activities done in Northern Ireland
unless the body is the body of an excepted adult—

1.3.6AA.a

the storage of the body of a deceased person for use for the purpose of
transplantation;

1.3.6AA.b

the removal from the body of a deceased person, for use for the purpose of
transplantation, of any permitted material of which the body consists or which
it contains;

1.3.6AA.c

the storage for use for the purpose of transplantation of any permitted
material which has come from a human body;

1.3.6AA.d

the use for the purpose of transplantation of any permitted material which has
come from a human body.

.

1.4

After subsection (9), insert—

1.4.9A

In subsection (6AA)—

      “ excepted adult ” means—         an adult who has died and who had not
been ordinarily resident in Northern Ireland for a period of at least 12
months immediately before dying, or           an adult who has died and who
for a significant period before dying lacked capacity to understand the effect
of subsection (6)(ba);                 “ permitted material ” means relevant
material of a type specified in regulations made by the Department of Health
in Northern Ireland, but the regulations may not make provision dealing with a
matter falling within a description specified in Schedule 3 to the Northern
Ireland Act 1998 (reserved matters).

.

1.5

In subsection (10), after “(9)” insert  “or (9A)” .

1.6

In section 52 of the Human Tissue Act 2004 (orders and regulations)—

1.6.a

after subsection (4A), insert—

1.6.a.4B

No regulations may be made under section 3(9A) unless a draft of the
regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the
Northern Ireland Assembly.

1.6.a.4C

The power of the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to make regulations
under section 3(9A) is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the
Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 and subsection (2) does not
apply to that power.

;

1.6.b

after subsection (10), insert—

1.6.b.11

Before acting under section 3(9A), the Department of Health in Northern
Ireland must consult such persons as it considers appropriate.

.

1.7

In section 15 of the the Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2016 (duty to promote transplantation), at the end add—

1.7.3

The duty under subsection (2) must be discharged in such a way that the public
are at least once a year given—

1.7.3.a

information about the effect of the legislation about deemed consent for
transplantation of parts of a person’s body after their death, and

1.7.3.b

information about how a person can during their lifetime—

1.7.3.b.i

record their own decisions about transplantation after their death of parts of
their body, or

1.7.3.b.ii

appoint someone to make decisions after their death about transplantation of
parts of their body.

.

1.8

In section 16(3)(a) of the Health (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act (Northern
Ireland) 2016 (annual report on transplantation must, at least once every five
years, address whether the Act has been effective in promoting
transplantation), for “has” substitute  “, and the amendments made in section
3 of the Human Tissue Act 2004 by the Organ and Tissue Donation (Deemed
Consent) Act (Northern Ireland) 2021, have” .

### Commencement and short title

2

2.1

This section comes into operation on the day after the day on which this Act
receives Royal Assent.

2.2

Section 1 comes into operation on such day or days as the Department of Health
may by order appoint.

2.3

This Act may be cited as the Organ and Tissue Donation (Deemed Consent) Act
(Northern Ireland) 2022.

