Title: Pension Schemes (Conversion of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions) Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/33

## Pension Schemes (Conversion of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions) Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Conversion of guaranteed minimum pensions

1

1.1

The Pension Schemes Act 1993 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (9) .

1.2

In section 24A (conversion of guaranteed minimum pension into other benefits:
introduction), in subsection (1)—

1.2.a

omit paragraph (a);

1.2.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

1.2.b.b

“ GMP conversion ” means—

1.2.b.b.i

the amendment of a scheme in relation to an earner who was alive immediately
before the conversion date so that it no longer contains the rules specified
in sections 13(1)(a) and (b) and 17(1), or

1.2.b.b.ii

the amendment of a scheme in relation to a person who, immediately before the
conversion date, was the widow, widower or surviving civil partner of an
earner so that it no longer contains the rules specified in section 17(1),

;

1.2.c

after that paragraph insert—

1.2.c.ba

“ P ” means—

1.2.c.ba.i

in relation to a GMP conversion within paragraph  (b) (i) , the earner
mentioned in that provision;

1.2.c.ba.ii

in relation to a GMP conversion within paragraph  (b) (ii) , the survivor
mentioned in that provision,

;

1.2.d

omit paragraph (c);

1.2.e

in paragraphs (e) and (f)—

1.2.e.i

after “scheme” insert  “in relation to P” ;

1.2.e.ii

omit “(disregarding money purchase benefits)”.

1.3

In section 24B (the conversion conditions)—

1.3.a

in subsection (2), after “ benefits ” (in both places it occurs) insert
“(disregarding money purchase benefits)” ;

1.3.b

in subsection (3), for “the earner” substitute  “P” ;

1.3.c

for subsection (5) substitute—

1.3.c.5

Condition 4 is that, in the case of a GMP conversion within section 24A(1) (b)
(i)  (GMP conversion in relation to earner)—

1.3.c.5.a

the converted scheme provides benefits to or in respect of any widow, widower
or surviving civil partner of P, and

1.3.c.5.b

such conditions as may be prescribed are met in relation to those benefits.

;

1.3.d

in subsection (7)—

1.3.d.i

in the opening words, omit “in respect of an earner”;

1.3.d.ii

in paragraph (a), for “in respect of other earners” substitute  “in relation
to persons other than P” ;

1.3.d.iii

in paragraph (b), for “the earner” substitute  “P” .

1.4

Omit section 24D (survivors’ benefits).

1.5

In section 24E (procedural requirements)—

1.5.a

in subsection (2), for “The employer” substitute  “Each relevant person (if
any)” ;

1.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

1.5.b.2A

For the purposes of subsection (2) a person is “ relevant ” in relation to a
scheme if such conditions as may be prescribed are met in relation to the
person and the scheme.

;

1.5.c

in subsection (3)(a), for “the earner” substitute  “P” ;

1.5.d

omit subsection (4).

1.6

In section 24F (transfer out)—

1.6.a

in subsection (1), in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “earner’s accrued rights
under a GMP-converted scheme” substitute  “accrued rights of a person in
relation to whom GMP conversion has been effected” ;

1.6.b

omit subsection (2);

1.6.c

for subsection (3) substitute—

1.6.c.3

Where—

1.6.c.3.a

a member of a scheme makes an application under section 95(1), and

1.6.c.3.b

GMP conversion has not been effected in relation to the member,

the trustees may with the member’s consent adjust any cash equivalent so as to
reflect rights that would have accrued if GMP conversion had been effected in
relation to the member in accordance with Conditions 1 to 4 of section 24B.

1.7

In section 24G (powers to amend schemes)—

1.7.a

in subsection (1), omit “(whether in relation to present earners, pensioners
or survivors)”;

1.7.b

omit subsection (5).

1.8

In section 38A (regulations about relevant gender change cases)—

1.8.a

in subsection (1), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end);

1.8.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end);

1.8.c

in subsection (6), in the opening words, omit “, 24D”.

1.9

In section 47 (further provisions concerning entitlement to guaranteed minimum
pensions for the purposes of section 46), in subsection (9), for the words
from “the amendment” to the end substitute  “GMP conversion (within the
meaning given by section 24A(1)) in relation to the person” .

1.10

In the Pensions Act 2007, in section 14 (conversion of guaranteed minimum
pensions)—

1.10.a

in subsection (8)(c), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to the person” ;

1.10.b

in subsection (8)(d), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to the person” ;

1.10.c

in subsection (10), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to S” ;

1.10.d

in subsection (11), omit “inserted by subsection (3) above”.

1.11

In the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act 2013, in Schedule 4 (effect of
extension of marriage: further provisions), omit paragraph 21.

1.12

In the Pension Schemes Act 2015, in section 81 (extension to Scotland of
certain provisions about marriage of same sex couples), omit “24D(5),”.

### Conversion of guaranteed minimum pensions: Northern Ireland

2

2.1

The Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993 is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (9) .

2.2

In section 20A (conversion of guaranteed minimum pension into other benefits:
introduction), in subsection (1)—

2.2.a

omit paragraph (a);

2.2.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

2.2.b.b

“ GMP conversion ” means—

2.2.b.b.i

the amendment of a scheme in relation to an earner who was alive immediately
before the conversion date so that it no longer contains the rules specified
in sections 9(1)(a) and (b) and 13(1), or

2.2.b.b.ii

the amendment of a scheme in relation to a person who, immediately before the
conversion date, was the widow, widower or surviving civil partner of an
earner so that it no longer contains the rules specified in section 13(1),

;

2.2.c

after that paragraph insert—

2.2.c.ba

“ P ” means—

2.2.c.ba.i

in relation to a GMP conversion within paragraph  (b) (i) , the earner
mentioned in that provision;

2.2.c.ba.ii

in relation to a GMP conversion within paragraph  (b) (ii) , the survivor
mentioned in that provision,

;

2.2.d

omit paragraph (c);

2.2.e

in paragraphs (e) and (f)—

2.2.e.i

after “scheme” insert  “in relation to P” ;

2.2.e.ii

omit “(disregarding money purchase benefits)”.

2.3

In section 20B (the conversion conditions)—

2.3.a

in subsection (2), after “ benefits ” (in both places it occurs) insert
“(disregarding money purchase benefits)” ;

2.3.b

in subsection (3), for “the earner” substitute  “P” ;

2.3.c

for subsection (5) substitute—

2.3.c.5

Condition 4 is that, in the case of a GMP conversion within section 20A(1) (b)
(i)  (GMP conversion in relation to earner)—

2.3.c.5.a

the converted scheme provides benefits to or in respect of any widow, widower
or surviving civil partner of P, and

2.3.c.5.b

such conditions as may be prescribed are met in relation to those benefits.

;

2.3.d

in subsection (7)—

2.3.d.i

in the opening words, omit “in respect of an earner”;

2.3.d.ii

in paragraph (a), for “in respect of other earners” substitute  “in relation
to persons other than P” ;

2.3.d.iii

in paragraph (b), for “the earner” substitute  “P” .

2.4

Omit section 20D (survivors’ benefits).

2.5

In section 20E (procedural requirements)—

2.5.a

in subsection (2), for “The employer” substitute  “Each relevant person (if
any)” ;

2.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

2.5.b.2A

For the purposes of subsection (2) a person is “ relevant ” in relation to a
scheme if such conditions as may be prescribed are met in relation to the
person and the scheme.

;

2.5.c

in subsection (3)(a), for “the earner” substitute  “P” ;

2.5.d

omit subsection (4).

2.6

In section 20F (transfer out)—

2.6.a

in subsection (1), in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “earner’s accrued rights
under a GMP-converted scheme” substitute  “accrued rights of a person in
relation to whom GMP conversion has been effected” ;

2.6.b

omit subsection (2);

2.6.c

for subsection (3) substitute—

2.6.c.3

Where—

2.6.c.3.a

a member of a scheme makes an application under section 91(1), and

2.6.c.3.b

GMP conversion has not been effected in relation to the member,

the trustees may with the member’s consent adjust any cash equivalent so as to
reflect rights that would have accrued if GMP conversion had been effected in
relation to the member in accordance with Conditions 1 to 4 of section 20B.

2.7

In section 20G (powers to amend schemes)—

2.7.a

in subsection (1), omit “(whether in relation to present earners, pensioners
or survivors)”;

2.7.b

omit subsection (5).

2.8

In section 34A (regulations about relevant gender change cases)—

2.8.a

in subsection (1), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end);

2.8.b

in subsection (3), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end);

2.8.c

in subsection (6), in the opening words, omit “, 20D”.

2.9

In section 43 (further provisions concerning entitlement to guaranteed minimum
pensions for the purposes of section 42), in subsection (9), for the words
from “the amendment” to the end substitute  “GMP conversion (within the
meaning given by section 20A(1)) in relation to the person” .

2.10

In the  Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 (c. 1 (N.I.)) , in section 12
(conversion of guaranteed minimum pensions)—

2.10.a

in subsection (8)(c), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to the person” ;

2.10.b

in subsection (8)(d), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to the person” ;

2.10.c

in subsection (10), after “conversion” insert  “in relation to S” ;

2.10.d

in subsection (11), omit “inserted by subsection (3)”.

### Extent, commencement and short title

3

3.1

Section 1 extends to England and Wales and Scotland.

3.2

Section 2 extends to Northern Ireland.

3.3

This section extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

3.4

The following come into force on the day on which this Act is passed—

3.4.a

section 1 for the purposes of making regulations under the Pension Schemes Act
1993;

3.4.b

section 2 for the purposes of making regulations under the Pension Schemes
(Northern Ireland) Act 1993;

3.4.c

this section.

3.5

Section 1 comes into force for remaining purposes on such day or days as the
Secretary of State may by regulations appoint.

3.6

Section 2 comes into force for remaining purposes on such day or days as the
Department for Communities in Northern Ireland may by order appoint.

3.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional or saving
provision in connection with the coming into force of section 1.

3.8

The Department for Communities in Northern Ireland may by order make
transitional or saving provision in connection with the coming into force of
section 2.

3.9

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under this section are to be made
by statutory instrument.

3.10

The power of the Department for Communities in Northern Ireland to make an
order under subsection  (6)  or  (8)  is exercisable by statutory rule for the
purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573
(N.I. 12) ).

3.11

This Act may be cited as the Pension Schemes (Conversion of Guaranteed Minimum
Pensions) Act 2022.

