Title: Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/32

## Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Protection of the police etc

#### Police covenant report

##### Police covenant report

1

1.1

The Secretary of State must in each financial year—

1.1.a

prepare a police covenant report, and

1.1.b

lay a copy of the report before Parliament.

1.2

A police covenant report is a report about—

1.2.a

the health and well-being of members and former members of the police
workforce,

1.2.b

the physical protection of such persons,

1.2.c

the support required by members of their families, and

1.2.d

any other matter in relation to members or former members of the police
workforce, or a particular description of such persons, that the Secretary of
State considers appropriate,

so far as these matters relate to the fact that the persons concerned are
members or former members of the police workforce.

1.3

In preparing a police covenant report the Secretary of State must have regard
in particular to—

1.3.a

the obligations of and sacrifices made by members of the police workforce, and

1.3.b

the principle that it is desirable to remove any disadvantage for members or
former members of the police workforce arising from their membership or former
membership.

1.4

In preparing a police covenant report the Secretary of State must ensure that
the views of—

1.4.a

any relevant government department, and

1.4.b

anyone else the Secretary of State considers appropriate,

are sought in relation to the matters to be covered by the report.

1.5

A police covenant report must set out in full or summarise any views obtained
under subsection (4).

1.6

The Secretary of State may not include in a police covenant report a summary
under subsection (5) unless the person whose views are summarised has approved
the summary.

1.7

A police covenant report must state whether, in the Secretary of State’s
opinion, in respect of any matter covered by the report, members or former
members of the police workforce, or a particular description of such persons,
are at a disadvantage when compared with other persons or such descriptions of
other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

1.8

Where the Secretary of State’s opinion is that there is any such disadvantage
as mentioned in subsection  (7) , the report must set out the Secretary of
State’s response to that.

1.9

In this section—

“ financial year ” means— the period which begins with the day on which this
section comes into force and ends with the following 31 March, and each
successive period of 12 months; “ members of the police workforce ” means—
members of police forces in England and Wales, special constables appointed
under section 27 of the Police Act 1996, staff appointed by the chief officer
of police of a police force in England and Wales, persons designated as
community support volunteers or policing support volunteers under section 38
of the Police Reform Act 2002, staff appointed by a local policing body if, or
to the extent that, they are employed to assist a police force in England and
Wales, persons providing services, in pursuance of contractual arrangements
(but without being employed by the chief officer of a police force in England
and Wales or a local policing body), to assist a police force in England and
Wales in relation to the discharge of its chief officer’s functions,
constables of the British Transport Police Force, special constables of the
British Transport Police Force appointed under section 25 of the Railways and
Transport Safety Act 2003, employees of the British Transport Police Authority
appointed under section 27 of that Act and under the direction and control of
the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force, persons designated
as community support volunteers or policing support volunteers under section
38 of the Police Reform Act 2002 as applied by section 28 of the Railways and
Transport Safety Act 2003, members of the Civil Nuclear Constabulary,
employees of the Civil Nuclear Police Authority employed under paragraph 6 of
Schedule 10 to the Energy Act 2004 if, or to the extent that, they are
employed to assist the Civil Nuclear Constabulary, members of the Ministry of
Defence Police and other persons under the direction and control of the Chief
Constable of the Ministry of Defence Police, and National Crime Agency
officers; “ former members of the police workforce ” means persons who have
ceased to be members of the police workforce; “ relevant government department
”, in relation to a matter to be covered by a police covenant report, means a
department of the Government of the United Kingdom (apart from the Home
Office) which the Secretary of State considers has functions relevant to that
matter.

1.10

The reference in subsection (2) to members of the families of members and
former members of the police workforce is a reference to such descriptions of
persons connected with members or former members of the police workforce as
the Secretary of State considers should be covered by a police covenant
report.

#### Offences against emergency workers

##### Increase in penalty for assault on emergency worker

2

2.1

In section 1 of the Assaults on Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 (offence
of common assault, or battery, committed against emergency worker), in
subsection (2)(b) (penalty for conviction on indictment), for “12 months”
substitute  “2 years” .

2.2

Subsection  (1)  applies only in relation to offences committed on or after
the day on which this section comes into force.

##### Required life sentence for manslaughter of emergency worker

3

3.1

The Sentencing Code is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (15) .

3.2

In section 177 (youth rehabilitation orders), in subsection (3)(b)(i), after
“258” insert  “or 258A” .

3.3

In section 221 (overview of Part 10), in subsection (2)(b), for “section 258”
substitute  “sections 258 and 258A” .

3.4

In section 249 (sentence of detention under section 250), in subsection
(2)(a), for “section 258” substitute  “sections 258 and 258A” .

3.5

In section 255 (extended sentence of detention), in subsection (1)(d), after
“258(2)” insert  “or 258A(2)” .

3.6

After section 258 insert—

########### Required sentence of detention for life for manslaughter of emergency worker

3.6.258A

3.6.258A.1

This section applies where—

3.6.258A.1.a

a person aged under 18 is convicted of a relevant offence,

3.6.258A.1.b

the offence was committed—

3.6.258A.1.b.i

when the person was aged 16 or over, and

3.6.258A.1.b.ii

on or after the relevant commencement date, and

3.6.258A.1.c

the offence was committed against an emergency worker acting in the exercise
of functions as such a worker.

3.6.258A.2

The court must impose a sentence of detention for life under section 250
unless the court is of the opinion that there are exceptional circumstances
which—

3.6.258A.2.a

relate to the offence or the offender, and

3.6.258A.2.b

justify not doing so.

3.6.258A.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(c)  the circumstances in which an offence
is to be taken as committed against a person acting in the exercise of
functions as an emergency worker include circumstances where the offence takes
place at a time when the person is not at work but is carrying out functions
which, if done in work time, would have been in the exercise of functions as
an emergency worker.

3.6.258A.4

In this section “ relevant offence ” means the offence of manslaughter, but
does not include—

3.6.258A.4.a

manslaughter by gross negligence, or

3.6.258A.4.b

manslaughter mentioned in section 2(3) or 4(1) of the Homicide Act 1957 or
section 54(7) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (partial defences to
murder).

3.6.258A.5

In this section—

“ emergency worker ” has the meaning given by section 68; “ relevant
commencement date ” means the date on which section 3 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (required life sentence for manslaughter of
emergency worker) comes into force.

3.6.258A.6

An offence the sentence for which is imposed under this section is not to be
regarded as an offence the sentence for which is fixed by law.

3.6.258A.7

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of subsection  (1)(b)  to have been committed on the last of
those days.

3.7

In section 267 (extended sentence of detention in a young offender
institution), in subsection (1)(d), for “or 274” substitute  “, 274 or 274A” .

3.8

In section 272 (offences other than murder), in subsection (2)(b), for “or
274” substitute  “, 274 or 274A” .

3.9

After section 274 insert—

########### Required sentence of custody for life for manslaughter of emergency worker

3.9.274A

3.9.274A.1

This section applies where—

3.9.274A.1.a

a person aged 18 or over but under 21 is convicted of a relevant offence,

3.9.274A.1.b

the offence was committed—

3.9.274A.1.b.i

when the person was aged 16 or over, and

3.9.274A.1.b.ii

on or after the relevant commencement date, and

3.9.274A.1.c

the offence was committed against an emergency worker acting in the exercise
of functions as such a worker.

3.9.274A.2

The court must impose a sentence of custody for life under section 272 unless
the court is of the opinion that there are exceptional circumstances which—

3.9.274A.2.a

relate to the offence or the offender, and

3.9.274A.2.b

justify not doing so.

3.9.274A.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(c)  the circumstances in which an offence
is to be taken as committed against a person acting in the exercise of
functions as an emergency worker include circumstances where the offence takes
place at a time when the person is not at work but is carrying out functions
which, if done in work time, would have been in the exercise of functions as
an emergency worker.

3.9.274A.4

In this section “ relevant offence ” means the offence of manslaughter, but
does not include—

3.9.274A.4.a

manslaughter by gross negligence, or

3.9.274A.4.b

manslaughter mentioned in section 2(3) or 4(1) of the Homicide Act 1957 or
section 54(7) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (partial defences to
murder).

3.9.274A.5

In this section—

“ emergency worker ” has the meaning given by section 68; “ relevant
commencement date ” means the date on which section 3 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (required life sentence for manslaughter of
emergency worker) comes into force.

3.9.274A.6

An offence the sentence for which is imposed under this section is not to be
regarded as an offence the sentence for which is fixed by law.

3.9.274A.7

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of subsection  (1)(b)  to have been committed on the last of
those days.

3.10

In section 280 (extended sentence of imprisonment), in subsection (1)(d), for
“or 285” substitute  “, 285 or 285A” .

3.11

After section 285 insert—

########### Required life sentence for manslaughter of emergency worker

3.11.285A

3.11.285A.1

This section applies where—

3.11.285A.1.a

a person aged 21 or over is convicted of a relevant offence,

3.11.285A.1.b

the offence was committed—

3.11.285A.1.b.i

when the person was aged 16 or over, and

3.11.285A.1.b.ii

on or after the relevant commencement date, and

3.11.285A.1.c

the offence was committed against an emergency worker acting in the exercise
of functions as such a worker.

3.11.285A.2

The court must impose a sentence of imprisonment for life unless the court is
of the opinion that there are exceptional circumstances which—

3.11.285A.2.a

relate to the offence or the offender, and

3.11.285A.2.b

justify not doing so.

3.11.285A.3

For the purposes of subsection  (1)(c)  the circumstances in which an offence
is to be taken as committed against a person acting in the exercise of
functions as an emergency worker include circumstances where the offence takes
place at a time when the person is not at work but is carrying out functions
which, if done in work time, would have been in the exercise of functions as
an emergency worker.

3.11.285A.4

In this section “ relevant offence ” means the offence of manslaughter, but
does not include—

3.11.285A.4.a

manslaughter by gross negligence, or

3.11.285A.4.b

manslaughter mentioned in section 2(3) or 4(1) of the Homicide Act 1957 or
section 54(7) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 (partial defences to
murder).

3.11.285A.5

In this section—

“ emergency worker ” has the meaning given by section 68; “ relevant
commencement date ” means the date on which section 3 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (required life sentence for manslaughter of
emergency worker) comes into force.

3.11.285A.6

An offence the sentence for which is imposed under this section is not to be
regarded as an offence the sentence for which is fixed by law.

3.11.285A.7

Where an offence is found to have been committed over a period of 2 or more
days, or at some time during a period of 2 or more days, it must be taken for
the purposes of subsection  (1)(b)  to have been committed on the last of
those days.

3.12

In section 329 (conversion of sentence of detention to sentence of
imprisonment), in subsection (7)(a), after “258” insert  “or 258A” .

3.13

In section 399 (mandatory sentences), in paragraph (b)(i)—

3.13.a

for “258, 274 or 285” substitute  “258, 258A, 274, 274A, 285 or 285A” ;

3.13.b

omit “dangerous”.

3.14

In section 417 (commencement of Schedule 22), in subsection (3)(d), for “and
274” substitute  “, 274 and 274A” .

3.15

In Schedule 22 (amendments of the Sentencing Code etc)—

3.15.a

after paragraph 59 insert—

3.15.a.59A

In section  285A  (required life sentence for manslaughter of emergency
worker), in subsection (1)(a), for “21” substitute  “18” .

;

3.15.b

in paragraph 73(a)(ii), after “274” insert  “, 274A” ;

3.15.c

in paragraph 101(2), after “274,” insert  “274A,” .

3.16

In section 37 of the Mental Health Act 1983 (powers of courts to order
hospital admission or guardianship)—

3.16.a

in subsection (1A)—

3.16.a.i

after “258,” insert  “258A,” ;

3.16.a.ii

after “274,” insert  “274A,” ;

3.16.a.iii

for “or 285” substitute  “, 285 or 285A” ;

3.16.b

in subsection (1B)—

3.16.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “258” insert  “or 258A” ;

3.16.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “or 274” substitute  “, 274 or 274A” ;

3.16.b.iii

in paragraph (c), for “or 285” substitute  “, 285 or 285A” .

#### Special constables and Police Federations

##### Special constables and Police Federations: amendments to the Police Act 1996

4

4.1

The Police Act 1996 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 51 (regulations for special constables), in subsection (2), after
paragraph (c) insert—

4.2.ca

the treatment as occasions of police duty of attendance at meetings of the
Police Federations and of any body recognised by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of section 64;

.

4.3

Section 59 (Police Federations) is amended as set out in subsections  (4)  to
(7) .

4.4

For subsection (1) substitute—

4.4.1

There shall continue to be a Police Federation for England and Wales for the
purpose of representing members of the police forces in England and Wales, and
special constables appointed for a police area in England and Wales, in all
matters affecting their welfare and efficiency, except for—

4.4.1.a

questions of promotion affecting individuals, and

4.4.1.b

(subject to subsection  (2) ) questions of discipline affecting individuals.

4.5

After subsection (1A) insert—

4.5.1B

There shall continue to be a Police Federation for Scotland for the purpose of
representing constables of the Police Service of Scotland in all matters
affecting their welfare and efficiency, except for—

4.5.1B.a

questions of promotion affecting individuals, and

4.5.1B.b

(subject to subsection  (2A) ) questions of discipline affecting individuals.

4.6

For subsection (2) substitute—

4.6.2

The Police Federation for England and Wales may—

4.6.2.a

represent a member of a police force at any proceedings brought under
regulations made in accordance with section 50(3) above, or on an appeal from
any such proceedings;

4.6.2.b

represent a special constable at any proceedings brought under regulations
made in accordance with section 51(2A) above, or on an appeal from any such
proceedings.

4.6.2A

The Police Federation for Scotland may represent a constable of the Police
Service of Scotland at any proceedings brought under regulations made in
accordance with section 48 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act  2012
(asp 8)  in so far as relating to the matters described in section 52 of that
Act, or on an appeal from any such proceedings.

4.7

For subsection (3) substitute—

4.7.3

Except on an appeal to a police appeals tribunal or as provided in regulations
made in accordance with section 84—

4.7.3.a

a member of a police force in England and Wales may only be represented under
subsection  (2)(a)  by another member of a police force or a special
constable;

4.7.3.b

a special constable appointed for a police area in England and Wales may only
be represented under subsection  (2)(b)  by another special constable or a
member of a police force;

4.7.3.c

a constable of the Police Service of Scotland may only be represented under
subsection  (2A)  by another constable of the Police Service of Scotland.

4.8

In section 60 (regulations for Police Federations), in subsection (2), in
paragraph (e), for the words from the beginning to “requiring” substitute
“about the pay, pension or allowances and other conditions of service for any
member of a police force or special constable who is the secretary or officer
of a Police Federation (including provision which applies existing regulations
with modifications), and may require” .

#### Police driving standards

##### Meaning of dangerous driving: constables etc

5

5.1

Section 2A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (meaning of dangerous driving) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

5.2

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert  “But this subsection does not
apply where subsection (1B) applies.”

5.3

After subsection (1) insert—

5.3.1A

Subsection (1B) applies where a designated person—

5.3.1A.a

is driving for police purposes (subject to subsections (1E) and (1F)), and

5.3.1A.b

has undertaken prescribed training.

5.3.1B

For the purposes of sections 1, 1A and 2 above, the designated person is to be
regarded as driving dangerously if (and, subject to subsection (2) below, only
if)—

5.3.1B.a

the way the person drives falls far below what would be expected of a
competent and careful constable who has undertaken the same prescribed
training, and

5.3.1B.b

it would be obvious to such a competent and careful constable that driving in
that way would be dangerous.

5.3.1C

In subsections (1A) and (1B) “ designated person ” means—

5.3.1C.a

a constable,

5.3.1C.b

a member of staff appointed by the chief officer of police of a police force
in England and Wales,

5.3.1C.c

a member of staff appointed by a local policing body and employed to assist a
police force in England and Wales,

5.3.1C.d

a member of staff appointed by the Scottish Police Authority under section
26(1) of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act  2012 (asp 8) ,

5.3.1C.e

an employee of the British Transport Police Authority appointed under section
27 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003,

5.3.1C.f

a person employed or engaged by—

5.3.1C.f.i

a chief officer of police,

5.3.1C.f.ii

the British Transport Police Authority,

5.3.1C.f.iii

the Civil Nuclear Police Authority,

5.3.1C.f.iv

the chief constable for the Ministry of Defence Police, or

5.3.1C.f.v

the Scottish Police Authority,

to train a person within any of paragraphs (a) to (e) to drive for police
purposes,

5.3.1C.g

a person employed or engaged by a person within paragraph (f)(i) to (v) to
train another person to carry out training of the kind mentioned in that
paragraph,

5.3.1C.h

a National Crime Agency officer, or

5.3.1C.i

a person engaged by the National Crime Agency—

5.3.1C.i.i

to train a National Crime Agency officer to drive for law enforcement
purposes, or

5.3.1C.i.ii

to train another person to carry out training of the kind mentioned in sub-
paragraph (i).

5.3.1D

In subsection (1C)(a) “ constable ” does not include a port constable within
the meaning of section 7 of the Marine Navigation Act 2013 or a person
appointed to act as a constable under provision made by virtue of section 16
of the Harbours Act 1964.

5.3.1E

In the case of a National Crime Agency officer, the reference in subsection
(1A)(a) to driving for police purposes is to be read as a reference to driving
for law enforcement purposes.

5.3.1F

In the case of a person within paragraph (i) of subsection (1C), the reference
in subsection (1A)(a) to driving for police purposes is to be read as a
reference to driving for the purpose of the training mentioned in that
paragraph.

5.4

In subsection (3)—

5.4.a

after “(1)” insert  “, (1B)” , and

5.4.b

after “driver” insert  “or constable (as the case may be)” .

5.5

The amendments made by this section have effect only in relation to driving
occurring after this section comes into force.

##### Meaning of careless driving: constables etc

6

6.1

Section 3ZA of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (meaning of careless driving) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

6.2

In subsection (2), after “driver.” insert  “But this subsection does not apply
where subsection (2B) applies.”

6.3

After subsection (2) insert—

6.3.2A

Subsection (2B) applies where a designated person—

6.3.2A.a

is driving for police purposes (subject to subsections (2E) and (2F)), and

6.3.2A.b

has undertaken prescribed training.

6.3.2B

The designated person is to be regarded as driving without due care and
attention if (and only if) the way the person drives falls below what would be
expected of a competent and careful constable who has undertaken the same
prescribed training.

6.3.2C

In subsections (2A) and (2B) “ designated person ” means—

6.3.2C.a

a constable,

6.3.2C.b

a member of staff appointed by the chief officer of police of a police force
in England and Wales,

6.3.2C.c

a member of staff appointed by a local policing body and employed to assist a
police force in England and Wales,

6.3.2C.d

a member of staff appointed by the Scottish Police Authority under section
26(1) of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act  2012 (asp 8) ,

6.3.2C.e

an employee of the British Transport Police Authority appointed under section
27 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003,

6.3.2C.f

a person employed or engaged by—

6.3.2C.f.i

a chief officer of police,

6.3.2C.f.ii

the British Transport Police Authority,

6.3.2C.f.iii

the Civil Nuclear Police Authority,

6.3.2C.f.iv

the chief constable for the Ministry of Defence Police, or

6.3.2C.f.v

the Scottish Police Authority,

to train a person within any of paragraphs (a) to (e) to drive for police
purposes,

6.3.2C.g

a person employed or engaged by a person within paragraph (f)(i) to (v) to
train another person to carry out training of the kind mentioned in that
paragraph,

6.3.2C.h

a National Crime Agency officer, or

6.3.2C.i

a person engaged by the National Crime Agency—

6.3.2C.i.i

to train a National Crime Agency officer to drive for law enforcement
purposes, or

6.3.2C.i.ii

to train another person to carry out training of the kind mentioned in sub-
paragraph (i).

6.3.2D

In subsection (2C)(a) “ constable ” does not include a port constable within
the meaning of section 7 of the Marine Navigation Act 2013 or a person
appointed to act as a constable under provision made by virtue of section 16
of the Harbours Act 1964.

6.3.2E

In the case of a National Crime Agency officer, the reference in subsection
(2A)(a) to driving for police purposes is to be read as a reference to driving
for law enforcement purposes.

6.3.2F

In the case of a person within paragraph (i) of subsection (2C), the reference
in subsection (2A)(a) to driving for police purposes is to be read as a
reference to driving for the purpose of the training mentioned in that
paragraph.

6.4

In subsection (3)—

6.4.a

after “(2)” insert  “or (2B)” , and

6.4.b

after “driver” insert  “or constable (as the case may be)” .

6.5

The amendments made by this section have effect only in relation to driving
occurring after this section comes into force.

##### Regulations relating to sections 5 and 6

7

In section 195 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (provisions as to regulations),
after subsection (6) insert—

7.7

Regulations prescribing training for the purposes of section 2A(1A)(b) or
3ZA(2A)(b) may make different provision for different persons or areas.

### Prevention, investigation and prosecution of crime

#### Functions relating to serious violence

##### Functions relating to serious violence

###### Duties to collaborate and plan to prevent and reduce serious violence

8

8.1

The specified authorities for a local government area must collaborate with
each other to prevent and reduce serious violence in the area.

8.2

The duty imposed on the specified authorities for a local government area by
subsection  (1)  includes a duty to plan together to exercise their functions
so as to prevent and reduce serious violence in the area.

8.3

In particular, the specified authorities for a local government area must—

8.3.a

identify the kinds of serious violence that occur in the area,

8.3.b

identify the causes of serious violence in the area, so far as it is possible
to do so, and

8.3.c

prepare and implement a strategy for exercising their functions to prevent and
reduce serious violence in the area.

8.4

In preparing a strategy under this section for a local government area, the
specified authorities for the area must ensure that the following are
consulted—

8.4.a

each educational authority for the area;

8.4.b

each prison authority for the area;

8.4.c

each youth custody authority for the area.

8.5

A strategy under this section for a local government area may specify an
action to be carried out by—

8.5.a

an educational authority for the area,

8.5.b

a prison authority for the area, or

8.5.c

a youth custody authority for the area.

See section 15 for further provision about the duties of such authorities in
relation to such actions.

8.6

In preparing a strategy under this section for a local government area, the
specified authorities for the area may invite participation from—

8.6.a

in the case of a strategy for a local government area in England, a person of
a description for the time being prescribed by order of the Secretary of State
under section 5(3) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998;

8.6.b

in the case of a strategy for a local government area in Wales, a person of a
description for the time being prescribed by order of the Welsh Ministers
under section 5(3) of that Act.

8.7

Once a strategy has been prepared under this section for a local government
area, the specified authorities for the area must—

8.7.a

publish the strategy,

8.7.b

keep the strategy under review, and

8.7.c

from time to time prepare and implement a revised strategy.

8.8

A strategy under this section must not include any material that the specified
authorities consider—

8.8.a

might jeopardise the safety of any person,

8.8.b

might prejudice the prevention or detection of crime or the investigation or
prosecution of an offence, or

8.8.c

might compromise the security of, or good order or discipline within, an
institution of a kind mentioned in the first column of a table in Schedule 2.

8.9

A strategy under this section may cover an area that is wider than a local
government area if it is also prepared in the exercise of the powers in
section 9.

8.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision for or in
connection with the publication and dissemination of a strategy under this
section.

8.11

References in subsections  (4)  to  (10)  to a strategy under this section
include a revised strategy.

8.12

This section does not affect any power of a specified authority to collaborate
or plan apart from this section.

8.13

For provisions about the interpretation of this section, see—

8.13.a

section 11 and Schedule 1 (specified authorities and local government areas);

8.13.b

section 12 and Schedule 2 (educational, prison and youth custody authorities);

8.13.c

section 13 (preventing and reducing serious violence).

###### Powers to collaborate and plan to prevent and reduce serious violence

9

9.1

Two or more specified authorities may collaborate with each other to prevent
and reduce serious violence in a relevant area.

9.2

The power conferred on specified authorities by subsection  (1)  includes a
power to plan together to exercise their functions so as to prevent and reduce
serious violence in a relevant area.

9.3

In particular, the specified authorities may—

9.3.a

identify the kinds of serious violence that occur in a relevant area,

9.3.b

identify the causes of serious violence in the area, and

9.3.c

prepare and implement a strategy for exercising their functions to prevent and
reduce serious violence in the area.

9.4

In preparing a strategy under this section for a relevant area, the specified
authorities preparing the strategy must ensure that the following are
consulted—

9.4.a

every other specified authority for the area;

9.4.b

each educational authority for the area;

9.4.c

each prison authority for the area;

9.4.d

each youth custody authority for the area.

9.5

A strategy under this section for a relevant area may specify actions to be
carried out by—

9.5.a

an educational authority for the area,

9.5.b

a prison authority for the area, or

9.5.c

a youth custody authority for the area.

See section 15 for further provision about the duties of such authorities in
relation to such actions.

9.6

In preparing a strategy under this section for a relevant area, the specified
authorities for the area may invite participation from—

9.6.a

in the case of a strategy for a relevant area in England, an eligible person
for the time being prescribed by order of the Secretary of State under section
5(3) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998;

9.6.b

in the case of a strategy for a relevant area in Wales, an eligible person for
the time being prescribed by order of the Welsh Ministers under section 5(3)
of that Act;

9.6.c

in the case of a strategy for a relevant area partly in England and partly in
Wales, an eligible person for the time being prescribed by order of the
Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers under section 5(3) of that Act.

9.7

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , an eligible person is—

9.7.a

where a person is prescribed in terms of a description which includes a
connection to a local government area, a person of that description with such
a connection to a local government area all or part of which coincides with or
falls within the relevant area, or

9.7.b

a person prescribed in terms that do not refer to a connection with a local
government area.

In this subsection “ local government area ” has the same meaning as in
section 5 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (see subsection (4) of that
section).

9.8

Once a strategy has been prepared under this section for a relevant area, the
specified authorities for the area—

9.8.a

must publish the strategy,

9.8.b

may keep the strategy under review, and

9.8.c

may from time to time prepare and implement a revised strategy.

9.9

A strategy under this section must not include any material that the specified
authorities consider—

9.9.a

might jeopardise the safety of any person,

9.9.b

might prejudice the prevention or detection of crime or the investigation or
prosecution of an offence, or

9.9.c

might compromise the security of, or good order or discipline within, an
institution of a kind mentioned in the first column of a table in Schedule 2.

9.10

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision for or in
connection with the publication and dissemination of a strategy under this
section.

9.11

References in subsections  (4)  to  (10)  to a strategy under this section
include a revised strategy.

9.12

This section does not affect any power of a specified authority to collaborate
or plan apart from this section.

9.13

In this Chapter “ relevant area ”, in relation to a specified authority,
educational authority, prison authority or youth custody authority means an
area made up of—

9.13.a

all or part of a local government area for which it is a specified authority,
educational authority, prison authority or youth custody authority, and

9.13.b

all or part of one or more other local government areas (regardless of
whether, in the case of a specified authority or educational authority, it is
also a specified authority or educational authority for the other area or
areas).

9.14

For further provisions about the interpretation of this section, see—

9.14.a

section 11 and Schedule 1 (specified authorities and local government areas);

9.14.b

section 12 and Schedule 2 (educational, prison and youth custody authorities);

9.14.c

section 13 (preventing and reducing serious violence).

###### Power to authorise collaboration etc. with other persons

10

10.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

10.1.a

confer powers on a specified authority to collaborate with a prescribed person
to prevent and reduce serious violence in a prescribed area;

10.1.b

confer powers on a prescribed person to collaborate with a specified authority
to prevent and reduce serious violence in a prescribed area.

10.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations authorise the disclosure of
information—

10.2.a

by a prescribed person to any person listed in subsection  (3)  for the
purposes of preventing and reducing serious violence in a prescribed area;

10.2.b

by any person listed in subsection  (3)  to a prescribed person for such
purposes.

10.3

Those persons are—

10.3.a

a specified authority;

10.3.b

a local policing body;

10.3.c

an educational authority;

10.3.d

a prison authority;

10.3.e

a youth custody authority.

10.4

Regulations under subsection  (2)  may provide that a disclosure under the
regulations does not breach—

10.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

10.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

10.5

But if regulations under subsection  (2)  contain provision under subsection
(4)(b) , they must provide that they do not authorise a disclosure of
information that—

10.5.a

would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, any power conferred by the regulations is to be taken
into account), or

10.5.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

10.6

Regulations under subsection (2) must not authorise—

10.6.a

the disclosure of patient information, or

10.6.b

the disclosure of personal information by a specified authority which is a
health or social care authority.

10.7

This section does not affect any power to collaborate or to disclose
information apart from regulations under this section.

10.8

In this section, “ prescribed ” means prescribed, or of a description
prescribed, in regulations under this section.

10.9

Regulations under this section may, in particular, prescribe persons by
reference to the fact that they have been invited under section 8 (6)  or 9
(6)  to participate in the preparation of a strategy under section 8 or 9.

10.10

In this Chapter—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);           “ health or social
care authority ” means a specified authority which is listed in the first
column of the table headed “Health and social care” in Schedule 1;           “
patient information ” means personal information (however recorded) which
relates to—         the physical or mental health or condition of an
individual,           the diagnosis of an individual’s condition, or
an individual’s care or treatment,         or is (to any extent) derived
directly or indirectly from information relating to any of those matters;
“ personal information ” means information which is in a form that identifies
any individual or enables any individual to be identified (either by itself or
in combination with other information).

###### Specified authorities and local government areas

11

11.1

In this Chapter “ specified authority ” means a person listed in the first
column of a table in Schedule 1.

11.2

Subsection  (3)  applies to a specified authority listed in Schedule 1 in
terms that refer to the exercise of particular functions or to a particular
capacity that it has.

11.3

References in this Chapter to the authority’s functions are to those functions
or its functions when acting in that capacity.

11.4

In this Chapter “ local government area ” means—

11.4.a

in relation to England, a district, a London borough, the City of London or
the Isles of Scilly;

11.4.b

in relation to Wales, a county or county borough.

11.5

For the purposes of this Chapter the Inner Temple and the Middle Temple form
part of the City of London.

11.6

For the purposes of this Chapter a specified authority listed in a table in
Schedule 1 is an authority for the local government area or (as the case may
be) each local government area listed in the corresponding entry in the second
column of the table.

11.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 1 by adding,
modifying or removing a reference to a specified authority or a local
government area.

###### Educational, prison and youth custody authorities

12

12.1

In this Chapter—

      “ educational authority ” means a person listed in the first column of
the first table in Schedule 2;           “ prison authority ” means a person
listed in the first column of the second table in Schedule 2;           “
youth custody authority ” means a person listed in the first column of the
third table in Schedule 2.

12.2

For the purposes of this Chapter an educational authority, prison authority or
a youth custody authority listed in a table in Schedule 2 is an authority for
the local government area or (as the case may be) each local government area
listed in the corresponding entry in the second column of the table.

12.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Schedule 2 by adding,
modifying or removing an entry in a table in that Schedule.

###### Preventing and reducing serious violence

13

13.1

In this Chapter—

13.1.a

references to preventing serious violence in an area are to preventing people
from becoming involved in serious violence in the area, and

13.1.b

references to reducing serious violence in an area are to reducing instances
of serious violence in the area.

13.2

The reference in subsection  (1)(a)  to becoming involved in serious violence
includes becoming a victim of serious violence.

13.3

In this Chapter “violence”—

13.3.a

includes, in particular—

13.3.a.i

domestic abuse within the meaning of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (see section
1 of that Act),

13.3.a.ii

sexual offences,

13.3.a.iii

violence against property, and

13.3.a.iv

threats of violence;

13.3.b

does not include terrorism (within the meaning of the Terrorism Act 2000 (see
section 1(1) to (4) of that Act)).

13.4

In subsection (3)(a)(ii), “ sexual offence ” means an offence under the law of
England and Wales which is for the time being specified in Schedule 3 to the
Sexual Offences Act 2003, other than the offence specified in paragraph 14 of
that Schedule (fraudulent evasion of excise duty).

13.5

In determining for the purposes of subsection  (4)  whether an offence is
specified in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, any limitation in
that Schedule referring to the circumstances of a particular case (including
the sentence imposed) is to be disregarded.

13.6

In considering whether violence in an area amounts to serious violence for the
purposes of this Chapter, account must be taken in particular of the following
factors—

13.6.a

the maximum penalty which could be imposed for the offence (if any) involved
in the violence,

13.6.b

the impact of the violence on any victim,

13.6.c

the prevalence of the violence in the area, and

13.6.d

the impact of the violence on the community in the area.

##### Exercise of functions

###### Involvement of local policing bodies

14

14.1

A local policing body for a police area may assist a specified authority in
the exercise of—

14.1.a

the authority’s functions under or in accordance with section 8 in relation to
a local government area which coincides with or falls within the police area,
or

14.1.b

the authority’s functions under or in accordance with section 9 in relation to
a relevant area which, or any part of which, coincides with or falls within
the police area.

14.2

A local policing body for a police area may—

14.2.a

monitor the exercise by specified authorities of their functions under or in
accordance with section 8 in relation to a local government area which
coincides with or falls within the police area, or

14.2.b

monitor the exercise by specified authorities of their functions under or in
accordance with section 9 in relation to a relevant area which, or any part of
which, coincides with or falls within the police area.

14.3

A local policing body may report its findings under subsection  (2)  to the
Secretary of State.

14.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision conferring functions
on a local policing body for a police area for the purposes of subsection  (1)
.

14.5

Provision under subsection  (4)  may include provision—

14.5.a

for a local policing body to provide funding to a specified authority,

14.5.b

for a local policing body to arrange for meetings to be held for the purpose
of assisting the exercise by specified authorities of their functions under or
in accordance with section 8 or 9,

14.5.c

for the local policing body or a representative of the body to chair the
meetings, and

14.5.d

for such descriptions and numbers of persons as the local policing body may
specify to be required to attend the meetings.

14.6

If a local policing body acts under subsection  (1)  or  (2) , or under
regulations under subsection  (4) , in relation to the exercise by a specified
authority of its functions under or in accordance with section 8 or 9, the
authority must co-operate with the body.

14.7

References in this Chapter (however expressed) to a specified authority
exercising functions in accordance with section 8 or 9 are to the authority
exercising functions conferred on it apart from this Chapter in accordance
with the section in question.

###### Involvement of educational, prison and youth custody authorities

15

15.1

An educational, prison or youth custody authority (a “relevant authority”) for
a local government area and a specified authority for that area may
collaborate with each other to prevent and reduce serious violence in that
area.

15.2

A relevant authority for a relevant area and a specified authority for that
area may collaborate with each other to prevent and reduce serious violence in
that area.

15.3

A relevant authority and a specified authority must collaborate with each
other as mentioned in subsection  (1)  or  (2)  if either the relevant
authority or the specified authority requests the other to do so.

15.4

A relevant authority must carry out any actions which are specified under
section 8 (5)  or 9 (5)  as actions to be carried out by the authority.

15.5

A relevant authority for a local government area—

15.5.a

may collaborate with another relevant authority for that area to prevent and
reduce serious violence in that area, and

15.5.b

must collaborate with another relevant authority for that area for those
purposes if requested by that other relevant authority to do so.

15.6

A relevant authority (“RA1”) may collaborate with another relevant authority
(“RA2”) to prevent and reduce serious violence in an area which is made up of—

15.6.a

all or part of the local government area for which RA1 is a relevant
authority, and

15.6.b

all or part of the local government area for which RA2 is a relevant
authority.

15.7

A relevant authority is not subject to a duty in subsection  (3) ,  (4)  or
(5) (b), and a specified authority is not subject to a duty in subsection  (3)
, if or to the extent that compliance with the duty—

15.7.a

would be incompatible with any other duty of the authority imposed by an
enactment (other than subsection  (5) (b)),

15.7.b

would otherwise have an adverse effect on the exercise of the authority’s
functions,

15.7.c

would be disproportionate to the need to prevent and reduce serious violence
in the area to which the duty relates, or

15.7.d

would mean that the authority incurred unreasonable costs.

15.8

In determining whether subsection  (7)  applies to an authority, the
cumulative effect of complying with duties under this section must be taken
into account.

15.9

Subsection  (7)  or  (8)  does not apply in relation to the duty of a relevant
authority to collaborate with a specified authority under subsection  (3)  to
the extent that it relates to—

15.9.a

the exercise by the specified authority of its function under subsection  (3)
(a) or (b) of section 8 of identifying the kinds or causes of serious violence
in an area or its function of preparing a strategy under subsection  (3) (c)
of that section, or

15.9.b

the exercise by the specified authority of its function under subsection  (3)
(a) or (b) of section 9 of identifying the kinds or causes of serious violence
in an area or its function of preparing a strategy under subsection  (3) (c)
of that section.

15.10

This section does not affect any power to collaborate apart from this section.

15.11

In this section “ enactment ” includes—

15.11.a

an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978, and

15.11.b

an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru.

###### Disclosure of information

16

16.1

A person listed in subsection  (2)  may disclose information that it holds for
the purposes of its functions to another person listed in that subsection for
the purposes of the exercise by the other person of its functions under or in
accordance with this Chapter.

16.2

Those persons are—

16.2.a

a specified authority;

16.2.b

a local policing body;

16.2.c

an educational authority;

16.2.d

a prison authority;

16.2.e

a youth custody authority.

16.3

A disclosure of information authorised by this section does not breach—

16.3.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

16.3.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

16.4

But this section does not authorise—

16.4.a

the disclosure of patient information,

16.4.b

the disclosure of personal information by a specified authority which is a
health or social care authority,

16.4.c

a disclosure of information that would contravene the data protection
legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would do so, the power
conferred by this section is to be taken into account), or

16.4.d

a disclosure of information that is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or
Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

16.5

Subsection  (6)  applies if—

16.5.a

a disclosure of information under this section is also permitted by
regulations under section 6(2) of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 or by
section 115 of that Act (but is not also a disclosure under section 17A of
that Act), and

16.5.b

a condition or limitation applies to a disclosure under those regulations or
section 115 of that Act by virtue of such regulations.

16.6

The condition or limitation does not apply to the disclosure of information
under this section.

16.7

This section does not otherwise affect any power to disclose information apart
from this section.

###### Supply of information to local policing bodies

17

17.1

A local policing body may, for the purposes of enabling or assisting it to
exercise its functions under section 14 in relation to an area, request any
person listed in subsection  (2)  to supply it with such information as may be
specified in the request.

17.2

Those persons are—

17.2.a

a specified authority for that area;

17.2.b

an educational authority for that area;

17.2.c

a prison authority for that area;

17.2.d

a youth custody authority for that area.

17.3

Information requested under subsection  (1)  must be information that is held
by the person to whom the request is made and that relates to—

17.3.a

the person to whom the request was made,

17.3.b

a function of the person to whom the request was made, or

17.3.c

a person in respect of whom a function is exercisable by the person requested
to supply the information.

17.4

Subject to subsection  (6) , a person who is requested to supply information
under subsection  (1)  must comply with the request.

17.5

A disclosure of information required by subsection  (4)  does not breach—

17.5.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

17.5.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

17.6

But subsection  (4)  does not require—

17.6.a

the disclosure of patient information,

17.6.b

the disclosure of personal information by a specified authority which is a
health or social care authority,

17.6.c

a disclosure of information that would contravene the data protection
legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would do so, the duty
imposed by that subsection is to be taken into account), or

17.6.d

a disclosure of information that is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or
Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

17.7

Information supplied to a local policing body under this section may be used
by the body only for the purpose of enabling or assisting it to exercise its
functions under section 14.

###### Directions

18

18.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if the Secretary of State is satisfied that—

18.1.a

a specified authority has failed to discharge a duty imposed on it by section
8, 14 (6) , 15 (3)  or 17 (4) , or

18.1.b

an educational authority, prison authority or youth custody authority has
failed to discharge a duty imposed on it by section 15 (3) ,  (4)  or  (5) (b)
or 17 (4) .

18.2

The Secretary of State may give directions to the authority for the purpose of
securing compliance with the duty.

18.3

A direction under subsection  (2)  may be enforced, on an application made on
behalf of the Secretary of State, by a mandatory order.

18.4

The Secretary of State must obtain the consent of the Welsh Ministers before
giving a direction under this section to a devolved Welsh authority within the
meaning of the Government of Wales Act 2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

18.5

This section does not apply in relation to—

18.5.a

a provider of probation services if that provider is the Secretary of State,

18.5.b

the governor of a prison, young offender institution or secure training
centre, or

18.5.c

the principal of a directly managed secure college as defined in paragraph 27
of Schedule 10 to the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015.

###### Guidance

19

19.1

A person listed in subsection  (2)  must have regard to guidance issued by the
Secretary of State—

19.1.a

in exercising any function conferred by or by virtue of this Chapter, or

19.1.b

in exercising any function in accordance with this Chapter.

19.2

Those persons are—

19.2.a

a specified authority;

19.2.b

a person prescribed in regulations under section 10;

19.2.c

a local policing body;

19.2.d

an educational authority;

19.2.e

a prison authority;

19.2.f

a youth custody authority.

19.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers before issuing
guidance relating to the exercise of functions as mentioned in subsection  (1)
by a devolved Welsh authority within the meaning of the Government of Wales
Act 2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

19.4

After issuing guidance under this section, the Secretary of State must lay a
copy of the guidance before Parliament.

##### Amendments to the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 etc

###### Amendments to the Crime and Disorder Act 1998

20

20.1

The Crime and Disorder Act 1998 is amended as follows.

20.2

In section 5A (combination agreements: further provision)—

20.2.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (c) insert—

20.2.a.d

preventing people from becoming involved in serious violence;

20.2.a.e

reducing instances of serious violence.

, and

20.2.b

after subsection (9) insert—

20.2.b.10

References in this section to serious violence and to becoming involved in
serious violence are to be construed in accordance with section 18.

20.3

Section 6 (formulation and implementation of strategies) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (4)  to  (7) .

20.4

In subsection (1), at the end of paragraph (c) insert

; and

20.4.d

a strategy for—

20.4.d.i

preventing people from becoming involved in serious violence in the area, and

20.4.d.ii

reducing instances of serious violence in the area.

20.5

In subsection (6)—

20.5.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

20.5.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

20.5.b.c

the prevention of people becoming involved in serious violence of a particular
description; or

20.5.b.d

the reduction of instances of serious violence of a particular description.

20.6

In subsection (9), at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “and strategies for
preventing people from becoming involved in and reducing instances of serious
violence in areas in Wales” .

20.7

After subsection (9) insert—

20.7.10

The Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers before making
regulations under this section if and to extent that the regulations—

20.7.10.a

relate to a strategy within subsection (1)(d), and

20.7.10.b

make provision that applies in relation to a devolved Welsh authority within
the meaning of the Government of Wales Act 2006 (see section 157A of that
Act).

20.7.11

References in this section to serious violence and to becoming involved in
serious violence are to be construed in accordance with section 18.

20.8

Section 17 (duty to consider crime and disorder implications) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (9)  to  (11) .

20.9

In subsection (1), at the end of paragraph (c) insert

; and

20.9.d

serious violence in its area.

20.10

After subsection (1) insert—

20.10.1A

The duty imposed on an authority by subsection (1) to do all it reasonably can
to prevent serious violence in its area is a duty on the authority to do all
it reasonably can to—

20.10.1A.a

prevent people from becoming involved in serious violence in its area, and

20.10.1A.b

reduce instances of serious violence in its area.

20.11

After subsection (5) insert—

20.11.6

References in this section to serious violence and to becoming involved in
serious violence are to be construed in accordance with section 18.

20.12

In section 18 (interpretation of Chapter 1)—

20.12.a

in subsection (1), at the appropriate place insert—

      “violence”—         includes, in particular—         domestic abuse
within the meaning of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (see section 1 of that Act),
sexual offences,           violence against property, and           threats of
violence;                 does not include terrorism (within the meaning of
the Terrorism Act 2000 (see section 1(1) to (4) of that Act)).

, and

20.12.b

after that subsection insert—

20.12.b.1A

In the definition of “violence” in subsection (1) “ sexual offence ” means an
offence under the law of England and Wales which is for the time being
specified in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, other than the
offence specified in paragraph 14 of that Schedule (fraudulent evasion of
excise duty).

20.12.b.1B

In determining for the purposes of subsection (1A) whether an offence is
specified in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, any limitation in
that Schedule referring to the circumstances of a particular case (including
the sentence imposed) is to be disregarded.

20.12.b.1C

References in this Chapter to becoming involved in serious violence include
becoming a victim of serious violence.

20.12.b.1D

In considering whether violence in an area amounts to serious violence for the
purposes of this Chapter account must be taken in particular of the following
factors—

20.12.b.1D.a

the maximum penalty which could be imposed for the offence (if any) involved
in the violence,

20.12.b.1D.b

the impact of the violence on any victim,

20.12.b.1D.c

the prevalence of the violence in the area, and

20.12.b.1D.d

the impact of the violence on the community in the area.

###### Amendment to the Police and Justice Act 2006

21

In section 19(11) of the Police and Justice Act 2006 (local authority scrutiny
of crime and disorder matters: interpretation), in the definition of “local
crime and disorder matter”—

21.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

21.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

or

      serious violence (within the meaning of Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the Crime
and Disorder Act 1998),

.

##### General

###### Regulations

22

22.1

Regulations under this Chapter are to be made by statutory instrument.

22.2

Regulations under this Chapter—

22.2.a

may make different provision for different purposes or areas;

22.2.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

22.3

The Secretary of State must consult the Welsh Ministers before making
regulations under this Chapter if and to extent that the regulations make
provision that applies in relation to a devolved Welsh authority within the
meaning of the Government of Wales Act 2006 (see section 157A of that Act).

22.4

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Chapter may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

22.5

Subsection  (4)  does not apply to a statutory instrument containing only one
or more of the following—

22.5.a

regulations under section 8 (10) ;

22.5.b

regulations under section 9 (10) ;

22.5.c

regulations under section 11 (7)  which make provision for the removal of an
entry in Schedule 1 where the authority concerned has ceased to exist;

22.5.d

regulations under section 11 (7)  which make provision for the modification of
an entry in Schedule 1 in consequence of a change of name or transfer of
functions;

22.5.e

regulations under section 12 (3)  which make provision for the removal of an
entry in Schedule 2 where the authority concerned has ceased to exist;

22.5.f

regulations under section 12 (3)  which make provision for the modification of
an entry in Schedule 2 in consequence of a change of name or transfer of
functions;

22.5.g

regulations under section 14 (4) .

22.6

A statutory instrument within subsection  (5)  is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

###### Index of defined expressions

23

In this Chapter an expression listed in the first column of the table has the
meaning given by, or is to be interpreted in accordance with, the
corresponding provision listed in the second column.

        Expression Provision   the data protection legislation section 10 (10)
educational authority section 12 (1)  and Schedule 2 educational authority for
a local government area  section 12 (2)  and Schedule 2 educational authority
for a relevant area section 9 (13) health or social care authority section
10(9) local government area section 11 (4) patient information section 10(9)
personal information section 10(9) preventing serious violence section 13(1)
and  (2) prison authority section 12 (1)  and Schedule 2 prison authority for
a local government area section 12 (2)  and Schedule 2 prison authority for a
relevant area section 9 (13) reducing serious violence section 13(1) relevant
area section 9 (13) serious violence section 13 (6) specified authority
section 11 (1)  and Schedule 1 specified authority for a local government area
section 11 (6)  and Schedule 1 specified authority for a relevant area section
9 (13) violence section 13(3) youth custody authority section 12 (1)  and
Schedule 2 youth custody authority for a local government area  section 12 (2)
and Schedule 2 youth custody authority for a relevant area section 9 (13)

#### Offensive weapons homicide reviews

##### Duty to arrange a review

24

24.1

Where a review partner considers that—

24.1.a

the death of a person was, or is likely to have been, a qualifying homicide,

24.1.b

the death occurred, or is likely to have occurred, in England or Wales,

24.1.c

such other conditions as the Secretary of State may specify by regulations are
satisfied, including, for example, conditions relating to—

24.1.c.i

the circumstances of or relating to the death,

24.1.c.ii

the circumstances or history of the person who died, or

24.1.c.iii

the circumstances or history of other persons with a connection to the death,
and

24.1.d

the review partner is one of the relevant review partners in respect of the
death (see section 25),

the review partner must join with the other relevant review partners in
respect of the death in arranging for there to be a review under this section
of the person’s death.

24.2

Subsection  (1)  is subject to subsections  (3)  to  (5)  and section 26.

24.3

If the review partner considers, on further information, that any of the
conditions mentioned in subsection  (1) (a)  to  (c)  is not satisfied in the
case of the person’s death, the review partner ceases to be under a duty to
arrange for there to be a review under this section of the death (and a review
may accordingly be discontinued).

24.4

If the review partner considers, on further information, that the condition
mentioned in subsection  (1) (d)  is not satisfied in the case of the person’s
death, the review partner ceases to be under a duty to arrange for there to be
a review under this section of the death, except where such a review of the
death has already started to take place under arrangements made by the review
partner and other review partners.

24.5

Subsection  (1)  does not require a review partner to arrange for there to be
a review under this section of a person’s death if such a review of the death
has already taken place, or started to take place, under arrangements made by
other review partners.

24.6

For the purposes of this section, the homicide of a person is a qualifying
homicide if—

24.6.a

the person was aged 18 or over, and

24.6.b

the death, or the events surrounding it, involved the use of an offensive
weapon.

24.7

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

24.7.a

amend this section so as to alter the meaning of “qualifying homicide”, and

24.7.b

make such consequential amendments of this Chapter as appear to the Secretary
of State to be appropriate.

24.8

In this section “ offensive weapon ” has the same meaning as in section 1 of
the Prevention of Crime Act 1953.

##### Relevant review partners

25

25.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for identifying which
review partners are to be the relevant review partners in respect of a
person’s death.

25.2

The regulations may provide that the relevant review partners in respect of a
person’s death are—

25.2.a

a chief officer of police for a police area in England or Wales of a
description specified in the regulations,

25.2.b

a local authority of a description specified in the regulations or, in a case
of a description specified in the regulations, a county council and a district
council of a description specified in the regulations, and

25.2.c

an integrated care board   or a local health board of a description specified
in the regulations.

25.3

The regulations may, in particular, provide that, in a case of a description
specified in the regulations, the relevant review partners in respect of a
person’s death are—

25.3.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in England or Wales in which
the death occurred or is likely to have occurred,

25.3.b

the local authority in whose area the death occurred or is likely to have
occurred or, if the death occurred or is likely to have occurred within the
area of a district council whose area is within the area of a county council,
both of those local authorities, and

25.3.c

the   integrated care board   or the local health board in whose area the
death occurred or is likely to have occurred.

25.4

The regulations may include provision for identifying the relevant review
partners in respect of a person’s death by reference to other matters,
including—

25.4.a

the last known place of residence of the person who died;

25.4.b

an earlier place of residence of the person who died;

25.4.c

the place of residence of the person who caused or is likely to have caused,
or of any of the persons who caused or are likely to have caused, the person’s
death;

25.4.d

the police area in England or Wales of the police force that is investigating
or has investigated the person’s death.

25.5

The regulations may—

25.5.a

provide for a group of review partners to agree with another group of review
partners to be the relevant review partners in respect of a person’s death
instead of that other group;

25.5.b

provide for review partners of a description specified in the regulations to
agree between them which of them is a relevant review partner in respect of a
person’s death;

25.5.c

provide for the Secretary of State to give a direction specifying which review
partners are the relevant review partners in respect of a person’s death.

##### Relationship with other review requirements

26

26.1

The duty in section 24 (1)  does not apply in relation to a death if—

26.1.a

a child death review must or may be arranged in relation to the death (see
section 16M(1) and (2) of the Children Act 2004),

26.1.b

the death may be the subject of a domestic homicide review (see section 9 of
the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004), or

26.1.c

a safeguarding adults review must or may be established in relation to the
death (see section 44(1) and (4) of the Care Act 2014).

26.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the duty in
section 24 (1)  not applying in the case of a death which may or must be
investigated under arrangements made by NHS bodies with respect to deaths
caused by persons who are receiving or have received any health services
relating to mental health.

26.3

The duty in section 24 (1)  does not apply in relation to a death if
regulations under section 135(4)(a) of the  Social Services and Well-being
(Wales) Act 2014 (anaw 4)  require a Safeguarding Board to undertake a review
of the death.

26.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision about the duty in
section 24 (1)  not applying in the case of a death, caused by a person who is
receiving or has received any health services relating to mental health, where
there may be a review of, or investigation into, the provision of that health
care under section 70 of the Health and Social Care (Community Health and
Standards) Act 2003.

##### Notification of Secretary of State

27

27.1

If a review partner becomes aware of qualifying circumstances in relation to a
person’s death, the review partner must notify the Secretary of State before
the end of the notification period of one of the following—

27.1.a

that the review partner is under a duty to arrange for there to be a review
under section 24 of the person’s death,

27.1.b

that the review partner is not under that duty in respect of the death, or

27.1.c

that the review partner has not been able to take a decision on the matter.

27.2

Subsection  (1)  does not apply if, when the review partner becomes aware of
qualifying circumstances in relation to a person’s death, the review partner
is also aware that no duty in section 24(1) arises in respect of the death
because of section 24(5) or 26.

27.3

If a review partner gives a notification under subsection  (1) (c) , the
review partner must notify the Secretary of State of the review partner’s
decision on the matter once it has been taken.

27.4

Where a review partner—

27.4.a

notifies the Secretary of State that the review partner is under a duty to
arrange a review under section 24 of a death, but

27.4.b

before the review starts to take place, decides that the review partner is not
under that duty in respect of that death (see section 24(3) and (4)),

the review partner must notify the Secretary of State of that decision.

27.5

Where a review under section 24 of a death is discontinued because the review
partner considers that a condition mentioned in section 24(1)(a) to (c) is not
satisfied in relation to the death (see section 24(3)), the review partner
must notify the Secretary of State.

27.6

Where a review partner—

27.6.a

notifies the Secretary of State that the review partner is not under a duty to
arrange a review under section 24 of a death, but

27.6.b

afterwards decides that the review partner is under that duty in respect of
that death,

the review partner must notify the Secretary of State of that decision.

27.7

For the purposes of this section, a review partner becomes aware of qualifying
circumstances in relation to a person’s death if the review partner becomes
aware of such facts as make it likely that—

27.7.a

the conditions mentioned in section 24(1)(a) and (b) are satisfied in relation
to the death, and

27.7.b

the review partner is one of the relevant review partners in respect of the
death.

27.8

In this section “ the notification period ”, in relation to notification by a
review partner, means the period of one month beginning with the day on which
the review partner becomes aware of qualifying circumstances in relation to
the death in question.

##### Conduct of review

28

28.1

Where a review under section 24 of a person’s death takes place, the review
partners that arranged it must co-operate in and contribute to the carrying
out of the review.

28.2

The purposes of a review under section 24 are—

28.2.a

to identify the lessons to be learnt from the death, and

28.2.b

to consider whether it would be appropriate for anyone to take action in
respect of those lessons learned.

28.3

Where the review partners consider that it would be appropriate for a person
to take action as mentioned in subsection  (2) (b) , they must inform that
person.

28.4

The review partners must prepare a report on the review and send it to the
Secretary of State.

28.5

The report must include—

28.5.a

the findings of the review,

28.5.b

any conclusions drawn by the review partners, and

28.5.c

recommendations made in light of those findings and conclusions (including
those referred to in subsection  (3) ).

28.6

The review partners must not include in the report sent to the Secretary of
State material that they consider—

28.6.a

might jeopardise the safety of any person, or

28.6.b

might prejudice the investigation or prosecution of an offence.

28.7

The Secretary of State must publish, or make arrangements for the publication
of, the report, unless the Secretary of State considers it inappropriate for
the report to be published.

28.8

If the Secretary of State considers it inappropriate for the report to be
published, the Secretary of State must publish, or make arrangements for the
publication of, so much of the contents of the report as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate to be published.

##### Information

29

29.1

A review partner may request a person to provide information specified in the
request to the review partner or another review partner.

29.2

A review partner may make a request to a person under this section only if the
conditions in subsections  (3)  and  (4)  are satisfied.

29.3

The condition in this subsection is that the request is made for the purpose
of enabling or assisting the performance of functions conferred on a review
partner by sections 24 to 28.

29.4

The condition in this subsection is that the request is made to a person whose
functions or activities are considered by the review partner to be such that
the person is likely to have information that would enable or assist the
performance of functions conferred on a review partner by sections 24 to 28.

29.5

The person to whom a request under this section is made must comply with the
request.

29.6

The review partner that made the request may enforce the duty under subsection
(5)  against the person by making an application to the High Court or the
county court for an injunction.

29.7

A review partner may provide information to another review partner for the
purpose of enabling or assisting the performance of functions under sections
24 to 28.

##### Information: supplementary

30

30.1

A person may not be required under section 29 to disclose information that the
person could not be compelled to disclose in proceedings before the High
Court.

30.2

A disclosure of information required or authorised by sections 27 to 29 does
not breach—

30.2.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

30.2.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

30.3

But sections 27 to 29 do not require or authorise a disclosure of information
that—

30.3.a

would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the duty imposed or power conferred by the section in
question is to be taken into account), or

30.3.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

30.4

Sections 27 to 29 do not affect any duty or power to disclose information
apart from those sections.

30.5

In this section “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the
Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act).

##### Delegating functions

31

31.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision enabling the relevant
review partners in respect of a person’s death to act jointly to appoint—

31.1.a

one of themselves, or

31.1.b

another person,

to carry out on their behalf, in relation to the person’s death, one or more
of the functions specified in the regulations.

31.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may specify some or all of the functions of
a review partner under section 28 or 29 relating to a review under section 24
or a report on the review.

31.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision enabling—

31.3.a

a county council, and

31.3.b

a district council for an area that is within the area of the county council,

to agree that one of them carry out on behalf of the other one or more of the
functions specified in the regulations.

31.4

Regulations under subsection  (3)  may specify some or all of the functions of
a review partner under sections 24 to 29.

##### Guidance

32

32.1

Review partners must have regard to any guidance issued by the Secretary of
State in connection with functions conferred on them under sections 24 to 31.

32.2

Before issuing guidance under this section, the Secretary of State must
consult—

32.2.a

persons appearing to the Secretary of State to represent review partners,

32.2.b

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the proposed guidance relates to a devolved
Welsh authority, and

32.2.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

32.3

After issuing guidance under this section, the Secretary of State must lay a
copy of the guidance before Parliament.

##### Power to pay grant: local health boards

33

Section 31(2) to (5) of the Local Government Act 2003 (power of the Secretary
of State to pay grant to local authorities in Wales) applies in relation to
local health boards in Wales and expenditure incurred or to be incurred by
those local health boards in the exercise of their functions under this
Chapter as it applies in relation to local authorities in Wales and
expenditure incurred or to be incurred by those local authorities.

##### Piloting

34

34.1

The Secretary of State may exercise the power in section 208(1) so as to bring
sections 24 to 30, 32 and 33 into force—

34.1.a

for all purposes, and

34.1.b

in relation to the whole of England and Wales,

only if the conditions in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are met.

34.2

The condition in this subsection is that regulations under section 208(1) have
brought some or all of sections 24 to 30, 32 and 33 into force only—

34.2.a

for one or more specified purposes, or

34.2.b

in relation to one or more specified areas.

34.3

The condition in this subsection is that the Secretary of State has laid
before Parliament a report on the operation of some or all of the provisions
of sections 24 to 31—

34.3.a

for one or more of those purposes, or

34.3.b

in relation to one or more of those areas.

34.4

Regulations under section 208(1) which bring any provision of sections 24 to
30, 32 and 33 into force only for a specified purpose or in relation to a
specified area may—

34.4.a

provide for that provision to be in force for that purpose or in relation to
that area for a specified period;

34.4.b

make transitional or saving provision in connection with that provision
ceasing to be in force at the end of the specified period.

34.5

Regulations containing provision by virtue of subsection  (4) (a)  may be
amended by subsequent regulations under section 208(1) so as to continue any
provision of sections 24 to 30, 32 and 33 in force—

34.5.a

for the specified purpose, or

34.5.b

in relation to the specified area,

for a further specified period.

34.6

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations under section
208(1).

##### Regulations

35

35.1

Regulations under this Chapter are to be made by statutory instrument.

35.2

Regulations under this Chapter—

35.2.a

may make different provision for different purposes and different provision
for different areas;

35.2.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

35.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Chapter may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

35.4

Subsection  (3)  does not apply to a statutory instrument containing only
regulations under section 26 (2)  or  (4) .

35.5

A statutory instrument within subsection  (4)  is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Interpretation

36

36.1

In this Chapter—

... “ devolved Welsh authority ” has the meaning given in section 157A of the
Government of Wales Act 2006;   “ integrated care board ” means a body
established under section 14Z25 of the National Health Service Act 2006;   “
local authority ” means— in relation to England— a county council, a district
council, a London borough council, the Common Council of the City of London in
its capacity as a local authority, or the Council of the Isles of Scilly; in
relation to Wales— a county council, or a county borough council; “ local
health board ” means a local health board established under section 11 of the
National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006; “ NHS body ” has the same meaning as
in the National Health Service Act 2006 (see section 275 of that Act); “
review partner ” means— a chief officer of police for a police area in England
or Wales, a local authority,   an integrated care board, or   a local health
board; “ relevant review partner ” has the meaning given by section 25.

36.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

36.2.a

amend the definition of “review partner”, and

36.2.b

make such consequential amendments of this Chapter as appear to the Secretary
of State to be appropriate.

36.3

Before making regulations under subsection  (2) , the Secretary of State must
consult—

36.3.a

such persons as appear to the Secretary of State to represent review partners,

36.3.b

the Welsh Ministers, so far as the proposed regulations relate to a devolved
Welsh authority, and

36.3.c

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

#### Extraction of information from electronic devices

##### Extraction of information from electronic devices: investigations of crime etc

37

37.1

An authorised person may extract information stored on an electronic device
from that device if—

37.1.a

a user of the device has voluntarily provided the device to an authorised
person, and

37.1.b

that user has agreed to the extraction of information from the device by an
authorised person.

37.2

The power in subsection  (1)  may be exercised only for the purposes of—

37.2.a

preventing, detecting, investigating or prosecuting crime,

37.2.b

helping to locate a missing person, or

37.2.c

protecting a child or an at-risk adult from neglect or physical, mental or
emotional harm.

37.3

The reference in subsection  (2)  to crime is a reference to—

37.3.a

conduct which constitutes one or more criminal offences in any part of the
United Kingdom, or

37.3.b

conduct which, if it took place in any part of the United Kingdom, would
constitute one or more criminal offences.

37.4

For the purposes of subsection  (2)  an adult is an at-risk adult if the
authorised person reasonably believes that the adult—

37.4.a

is experiencing, or at risk of, neglect or physical, mental or emotional harm,
and

37.4.b

is unable to protect themselves against the neglect or harm or the risk of it.

37.5

An authorised person may exercise the power in subsection  (1)  only if—

37.5.a

in a case where the authorised person proposes to exercise the power for a
purpose within subsection  (2)(a) , the authorised person reasonably believes
that information stored on the electronic device is relevant to a reasonable
line of enquiry which is being, or is to be, pursued by an authorised person,

37.5.b

in a case where the authorised person proposes to exercise the power for a
purpose within subsection  (2)(b)  or  (c) , the authorised person reasonably
believes that information stored on the electronic device is relevant to that
purpose, and

37.5.c

in any case, the authorised person is satisfied that exercise of the power is
necessary and proportionate to achieve the purpose within subsection  (2)  for
which the person proposes to exercise the power.

37.6

Subsection  (7)  applies if the authorised person thinks that, in exercising
the power, there is a risk of obtaining information other than—

37.6.a

information necessary for a purpose within subsection  (2)  for which the
authorised person may exercise the power, or

37.6.b

information necessary for a purpose within subsection  (2)  of section 41
(investigations of death) for which the authorised person may exercise the
power in subsection  (1)  of that section.

37.7

The authorised person must, to be satisfied that the exercise of the power in
subsection  (1)  is proportionate, be satisfied that—

37.7.a

there are no other means of obtaining the information sought by the authorised
person which avoid that risk, or

37.7.b

there are such other means, but it is not reasonably practicable to use them.

37.8

Subsection  (9)  applies if the authorised person thinks that, in exercising
the power in subsection (1), there is a risk of obtaining confidential
information.

37.9

The authorised person must, to be satisfied that the exercise of the power is
proportionate—

37.9.a

have regard to the matters in subsection  (10) , and

37.9.b

be satisfied that—

37.9.b.i

there are no other means of obtaining the information sought by the authorised
person which avoid that risk, or

37.9.b.ii

there are such other means, but it is not reasonably practicable to use them.

37.10

The matters referred to in subsection  (9)(a)  are—

37.10.a

the amount of confidential information likely to be stored on the device, and

37.10.b

the potential relevance of the confidential information to—

37.10.b.i

a purpose within subsection (2) for which the authorised person may exercise
the power, or

37.10.b.ii

a purpose within subsection (2) of section 41 for which the authorised person
may exercise the power in subsection (1) of that section.

37.11

An authorised person must have regard to the code of practice for the time
being in force under section 42 in exercising, or deciding whether to
exercise, the power in subsection  (1) .

37.12

This section does not affect any power relating to the extraction or
production of information, or any power to seize any item or obtain any
information, conferred by an enactment or rule of law.

37.13

In this Chapter—

      “ adult ” means a person aged 18 or over;           “ authorised person
” has the meaning given by subsection  (1)  of section 44 (subject to
subsections  (2)  and  (3)  of that section);           “ child ” means a
person aged under 18;           “ confidential information ” has the meaning
given by section 43;           “ criminal offence ” includes—         a
service offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006, and
an SDA offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional
Provisions etc) Order 2009 ( S.I. 2009/1059 );                 “ electronic
device ” means any device on which information is capable of being stored
electronically and includes any component of such a device;           “
enactment ” includes—         an enactment contained in subordinate
legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978,           an
enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the Scottish
Parliament,           an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made
under, an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, and           an enactment contained
in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland legislation;
“ information ” includes moving or still images and sounds;           “ user
”, in relation to an electronic device, means a person who ordinarily uses the
device.

37.14

References in this Chapter to the extraction of information include its
reproduction in any form.

37.15

This section is subject to sections 38 (children, and adults without
capacity), 39 (requirements for voluntary provision and agreement) and 40
(persons who have died etc).

##### Application of section 37 to children and adults without capacity

38

38.1

A child is not to be treated for the purposes of section 37 (1)  as being
capable of—

38.1.a

voluntarily providing an electronic device to an authorised person for those
purposes, or

38.1.b

agreeing for those purposes to the extraction of information from the device
by an authorised person.

38.2

If a child is a user of an electronic device, a person who is not a user of
the device but is listed in subsection  (3)  may—

38.2.a

voluntarily provide the device to an authorised person for the purposes of
section 37 (1) , and

38.2.b

agree for those purposes to the extraction of information from the device by
an authorised person.

38.3

The persons mentioned in subsection  (2)  are—

38.3.a

a parent or guardian of the child or, if the child is in the care of a
relevant authority or voluntary organisation, a person representing that
authority or organisation, or

38.3.b

if no person within paragraph  (a)  is available, any responsible person who
is aged 18 or over other than a relevant authorised person.

38.4

Before exercising the power under section 37 (1)  by virtue of subsection  (2)
, an authorised person must, so far as it is reasonably practicable to do so—

38.4.a

ascertain the views of the child, and

38.4.b

have regard to any views so ascertained, taking account of the child’s age and
maturity.

38.5

If an authorised person (“ A ”) exercises the power under section 37 (1)  as a
result of action taken under subsection  (2)  by a person within subsection
(3) (b), A must, unless A considers that it is not appropriate to do so,
inform a person within subsection  (3) (a) that A has exercised the power.

38.6

An adult without capacity is not to be treated for the purposes of section 37
(1)  as being capable of—

38.6.a

voluntarily providing an electronic device to an authorised person for those
purposes, or

38.6.b

agreeing for those purposes to the extraction of information from the device
by an authorised person.

38.7

If a user of an electronic device is an adult without capacity, a person who
is not a user of the device but is listed in subsection  (8)  may—

38.7.a

voluntarily provide the device to an authorised person for the purposes of
section 37 (1) , and

38.7.b

agree for those purposes to the extraction of information from the device by
an authorised person.

38.8

The persons mentioned in subsection  (7)  are—

38.8.a

a parent or guardian of the adult without capacity or, if the adult without
capacity is in the care of a relevant authority or voluntary organisation, a
person representing that authority or organisation,

38.8.b

a registered social worker,

38.8.c

a person who, under a power of attorney, may make decisions for the purposes
of subsection  (7) (a) and (b) on behalf of the adult without capacity,

38.8.d

a deputy appointed under section 16 of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 or section
113 of the Mental Capacity Act (Northern Ireland) 2016 who may make decisions
for the purposes of subsection  (7) (a) and (b) on behalf of the adult without
capacity by virtue of that appointment,

38.8.e

a person authorised under an intervention order under section 53 of the Adults
with Incapacity (Scotland) Act  2000 (asp 4)  who may make decisions for the
purposes of subsection  (7) (a) and (b) on behalf of the adult without
capacity by virtue of that authorisation, or

38.8.f

if no person within any of paragraphs  (a)  to  (e)  is available, any
responsible person who is aged 18 or over other than a relevant authorised
person.

38.9

Nothing in this section prevents any other user of an electronic device who is
not a child or an adult without capacity from—

38.9.a

voluntarily providing the device to an authorised person for the purposes of
section 37 (1) , or

38.9.b

agreeing for those purposes to the extraction of information from the device
by an authorised person.

38.10

For the purposes of this Chapter a person is an adult without capacity if—

38.10.a

in relation to England and Wales, the person is an adult who, within the
meaning of the Mental Capacity Act 2005, lacks capacity to do the things
mentioned in section 37 (1) (a) and (b);

38.10.b

in relation to Scotland, the person is an adult (within the meaning of this
Chapter) who is incapable within the meaning of the Adults with Incapacity
(Scotland) Act 2000 in relation to the matters mentioned in section 37 (1) (a)
and (b);

38.10.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, the person is an adult who, within the
meaning of the Mental Capacity Act (Northern Ireland) 2016, lacks capacity to
do the things mentioned in section 37 (1) (a) and (b).

38.11

In this Chapter—

      “local authority”—         in relation to England, means a county
council, a district council for an area for which there is no county council,
a London borough council or the Common Council of the City of London in its
capacity as a local authority;           in relation to Wales, means a county
council or a county borough council;           in relation to Scotland, means
a council constituted under section 2 of the Local Government etc (Scotland)
Act 1994;                 “ registered social worker ” means a person
registered as a social worker in a register maintained by—         Social Work
England,           the Care Council for Wales,           the Scottish Social
Services Council, or           the Northern Ireland Social Care Council;
“ relevant authorised person ”, in relation to the extraction of information
from an electronic device for a particular purpose, means an authorised person
who may extract the information from the device for that purpose;
“relevant authority”—         in relation to England and Wales and Scotland,
means a local authority;           in relation to Northern Ireland, means an
authority within the meaning of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (
S.I. 1995/755 (N.I. 2) );                 “voluntary organisation”—         in
relation to England and Wales, has the same meaning as in the Children Act
1989;           in relation to Scotland, has the same meaning as in Part 2 of
the Children (Scotland) Act 1995;           in relation to Northern Ireland,
has the same meaning as in the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995.

38.12

This section is subject to section 39 (requirements for voluntary provision
and agreement).

##### Requirements for voluntary provision and agreement

39

39.1

A person (“ P ”) is to be treated for the purposes of section 37 or 38 as
having—

39.1.a

voluntarily provided an electronic device to an authorised person, and

39.1.b

agreed to the extraction of information from the device by an authorised
person,

only if the requirements of this section have been met.

39.2

An authorised person must not have placed undue pressure on P to provide the
device or agree to the extraction of information from it.

39.3

An authorised person must have given P notice in writing—

39.3.a

specifying or describing the information that is sought,

39.3.b

specifying the reason why the information is sought,

39.3.c

specifying how the information will be dealt with once it has been extracted,

39.3.d

stating that P may refuse to provide the device or agree to the extraction of
information from it, and

39.3.e

stating that the investigation or enquiry for the purposes of which the
information is sought will not be brought to an end merely because P refuses
to provide the device or agree to the extraction of information from it.

39.4

Subject to subsection  (5) , P must have confirmed in writing that P has—

39.4.a

voluntarily provided the device to an authorised person, and

39.4.b

agreed to the extraction of information from the device by an authorised
person.

39.5

If P was unable to provide that confirmation in writing as a result of P’s
physical impairment or lack of literacy skills—

39.5.a

P must have given that confirmation orally, and

39.5.b

an authorised person must have recorded P’s confirmation in writing.

39.6

If P’s confirmation was given in writing and in hard copy form, the authorised
person must have given P a copy of that confirmation (in hard copy or
electronic form).

39.7

If P’s confirmation was given orally, the authorised person must have given P
a copy of the record of that confirmation (in hard copy or electronic form).

##### Application of section 37 where user has died etc

40

40.1

If any of conditions A to C is met, an authorised person may exercise the
power in section 37 (1)  to extract information stored on an electronic device
from that device even though—

40.1.a

the device has not been voluntarily provided to an authorised person by a user
of the device, or

40.1.b

no user of the device has agreed to the extraction of information from the
device by an authorised person.

40.2

Condition A is that—

40.2.a

a person who was a user of the electronic device has died, and

40.2.b

the person was a user of the device immediately before their death.

40.3

Condition B is that—

40.3.a

a user of the electronic device is a child or an adult without capacity, and

40.3.b

an authorised person reasonably believes that the user’s life is at risk or
there is a risk of serious harm to the user.

40.4

Condition C is that—

40.4.a

a person who was a user of the electronic device is missing,

40.4.b

the person was a user of the device immediately before they went missing, and

40.4.c

an authorised person reasonably believes that the person’s life is at risk or
there is a risk of serious harm to the person.

40.5

The exercise of the power in subsection  (1)  of section 37 by virtue of this
section is subject to that section.

##### Extraction of information from electronic devices: investigations of death

41

41.1

An authorised person may extract information stored on an electronic device
from that device if—

41.1.a

a person who was a user of the electronic device has died, and

41.1.b

the person was a user of the device immediately before their death.

41.2

The power in subsection  (1)  may be exercised only for the purposes of—

41.2.a

an investigation into the person’s death under Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the
Coroners and Justice Act 2009,

41.2.b

an inquest into the person’s death under the Coroners Act (Northern Ireland)
1959, or

41.2.c

an investigation into the person’s death by the Lord Advocate.

41.3

References in subsection  (2)  to the exercise of the power in subsection (1)
for the purposes of an investigation or inquest include references to the
exercise of that power for the purposes of determining whether an
investigation should be conducted or an inquest should be held.

41.4

An authorised person may exercise the power in subsection  (1)  only if—

41.4.a

the authorised person reasonably believes that information stored on the
electronic device is relevant to a purpose within subsection  (2) , and

41.4.b

the authorised person is satisfied that exercise of the power is necessary and
proportionate to achieve that purpose.

41.5

Subsection  (6)  applies if the authorised person thinks that, in exercising
the power, there is a risk of obtaining information other than—

41.5.a

information necessary for a purpose within subsection  (2) , or

41.5.b

information necessary for a purpose within section 37 (2) .

41.6

The authorised person must, to be satisfied that the exercise of the power is
proportionate, be satisfied that—

41.6.a

there are no other means of obtaining the information sought by the authorised
person which avoid that risk, or

41.6.b

there are such other means, but it is not reasonably practicable to use them.

41.7

Subsection  (8)  applies if the authorised person thinks that, in exercising
the power in subsection (1), there is a risk of obtaining confidential
information.

41.8

The authorised person must, to be satisfied that the exercise of the power is
proportionate—

41.8.a

have regard to the matters in subsection  (9) , and

41.8.b

be satisfied that—

41.8.b.i

there are no other means of obtaining the information sought by the authorised
person which avoid that risk, or

41.8.b.ii

there are such other means, but it is not reasonably practicable to use them.

41.9

The matters referred to in subsection  (8)(a)  are—

41.9.a

the amount of confidential information likely to be stored on the device, and

41.9.b

the potential relevance of the confidential information to a purpose within
subsection (2) or section 37(2).

41.10

An authorised person must have regard to the code of practice for the time
being in force under section 42 in exercising, or deciding whether to
exercise, the power in subsection  (1) .

41.11

This section does not affect any power relating to the extraction or
production of information, or any power to seize any item or obtain any
information, conferred by an enactment or rule of law.

##### Code of practice about the extraction of information

42

42.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a code of practice containing guidance
about the exercise of the powers in sections 37(1) and 41(1).

42.2

The code may make different provision for different purposes or areas.

42.3

In preparing the code, the Secretary of State must consult—

42.3.a

the Information Commissioner,

42.3.b

the Scottish Ministers,

42.3.c

the Department of Justice in Northern Ireland,

42.3.d

the Commissioner for Victims and Witnesses,

42.3.e

the Domestic Abuse Commissioner,

42.3.f

the Commission for Victims and Survivors for Northern Ireland, and

42.3.g

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate.

42.4

Subsection  (3)(f)  does not apply on or after the day appointed under Article
4(4) of the Victims and Survivors (Northern Ireland) Order 2006 ( S.I.
2006/2953 (N.I. 17) ) (power to revoke Article 4).

42.5

After preparing the code, the Secretary of State must lay it before Parliament
and publish it.

42.6

The code is to be brought into force by regulations made by statutory
instrument.

42.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (6)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

42.8

After the code has come into force the Secretary of State may from time to
time revise it.

42.9

A failure on the part of an authorised person to act in accordance with the
code does not of itself render the person liable to any criminal or civil
proceedings.

42.10

But the code is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil proceedings and a
court may take into account a failure to act in accordance with it in
determining a question in the proceedings.

42.11

References in subsections  (2)  to  (10)  to the code include a revised code,
subject to subsection  (12) .

42.12

The duty to consult in subsection  (3)  does not apply in relation to the
preparation of a revised code if the Secretary of State considers that the
proposed revisions are insubstantial.

##### Confidential information

43

43.1

In this Chapter “ confidential information ” means information which
constitutes or may constitute—

43.1.a

confidential journalistic material within the meaning of the Investigatory
Powers Act 2016 (see section 264(6) and (7) of that Act), or

43.1.b

protected material.

43.2

In subsection  (1) (b) “protected material”—

43.2.a

in relation to England and Wales means—

43.2.a.i

items subject to legal privilege, within the meaning of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (see section 10 of that Act),

43.2.a.ii

material falling within section 11(1)(a) of that Act (certain personal records
held in confidence), or

43.2.a.iii

material to which section 14(2) of that Act applies (other material acquired
in the course of a trade etc that is held in confidence);

43.2.b

in relation to Scotland means—

43.2.b.i

items in respect of which a claim to confidentiality of communications could
be maintained in legal proceedings, or

43.2.b.ii

other material of a kind mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii) or (iii) of this
subsection;

43.2.c

in relation to Northern Ireland, means—

43.2.c.i

items subject to legal privilege, within the meaning of the Police and
Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/1341 (N.I. 12) )
(see Article 12 of that Order),

43.2.c.ii

material falling with Article 13(1)(a) of that Order (certain personal records
held in confidence), or

43.2.c.iii

material to which Article 16(2) of that Order applies (other material acquired
in the course of a trade etc that is held in confidence).

##### Authorised persons

44

44.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  and  (3) , in this Chapter “ authorised person ”
means a person listed in Schedule 3.

44.2

The power in subsection  (1)  of section 37 may be exercised for a purpose
mentioned in subsection  (2) (b)  or  (c)  of that section only by a person
listed in Part 1 or 2 of Schedule 3.

44.3

The power in section 41 (1)  may be exercised only by a person listed in Part
1 of Schedule 3.

44.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument amend
Schedule 3—

44.4.a

so as to add a reference to a person;

44.4.b

so as to remove a reference to a person;

44.4.c

so as to modify a description of a person mentioned in that Schedule.

44.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  may contain transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

44.6

The Secretary of State must consult the Scottish Ministers before making
regulations under subsection  (4)  if and so far as the regulations make
provision that would be within the legislative competence of the Scottish
Parliament if it were contained in an Act of that Parliament.

44.7

The Secretary of State must consult the Department of Justice in Northern
Ireland before making regulations under subsection  (4)  if and so far as the
regulations make provision that, if it were contained in an Act of the
Northern Ireland Assembly—

44.7.a

would be within the legislative competence of that Assembly, and

44.7.b

would not require the consent of the Secretary of State.

44.8

Subject to subsection  (9) , a statutory instrument containing regulations
under subsection  (4) (a)  (whether alone or with other provision) may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

44.9

Subsection  (8)  does not apply to a statutory instrument containing
regulations which—

44.9.a

remove a reference to a person from Part 1 of Schedule 3 and add a reference
to that person to Part 2 or 3 of that Schedule, or

44.9.b

remove a reference to a person from Part 2 of that Schedule and add a
reference to that person to Part 3 of that Schedule.

44.10

A statutory instrument containing—

44.10.a

regulations under subsection  (4) (a)  to which subsection  (9)  applies, or

44.10.b

regulations under subsection  (4) (b)  or  (c) ,

and which is not a statutory instrument to which subsection  (8)  applies is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

#### Other provisions

##### Pre-charge bail

###### Pre-charge bail

45

45.1

Schedule 4 contains amendments relating to pre-charge bail.

45.2

In that Schedule—

45.2.a

Part 1 makes provision relating to the grant of pre-charge bail,

45.2.b

Part 2 makes provision about the factors to be taken into account in
determining whether to grant pre-charge bail,

45.2.c

Part 3 makes provision requiring the views of alleged victims to be sought in
relation to the grant or variation of pre-charge bail subject to conditions,

45.2.d

Part 4 makes provision relating to limits on periods of pre-charge bail,

45.2.e

Part 5 makes provision about the determination of a period of police detention
following a person’s arrest for breach of pre-charge bail, and

45.2.f

Part 6 makes provision for guidance about pre-charge bail.

45.3

An amendment made by Schedule 4—

45.3.a

applies in relation to a person arrested for an offence only if the person was
arrested for the offence after the coming into force of that amendment,

45.3.b

applies in relation to a person arrested under section 46A of the Police and
Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (failure to answer to police bail etc) only if the
person was arrested after the coming into force of that amendment for the
offence for which the person was originally released on bail, and

45.3.c

applies in relation to a person arrested under section 24A of the Criminal
Justice Act 2003 (failure to comply with conditional caution) only if the
person was arrested after the coming into force of that amendment for the
offence in respect of which the caution was given.

##### Sexual offences

###### Arranging or facilitating commission of a child sex offence

46

46.1

Section 14 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (arranging or facilitating
commission of a child sex offence) is amended in accordance with subsections
(2) and (3).

46.2

In subsection (1), in paragraph (b), for “9” substitute  “5” .

46.3

In subsection (4), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “to the penalty to
which the person would be liable on conviction of the offence within
subsection (1)(b)” .

###### Positions of trust

47

47.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

47.2

After section 22 insert—

############ Further positions of trust

47.2.22A

47.2.22A.1

For the purposes of sections 16 to 19, a person (A) is in a position of trust
in relation to another person (B) if—

47.2.22A.1.a

A coaches, teaches, trains, supervises or instructs B, on a regular basis, in
a sport or a religion, and

47.2.22A.1.b

A knows that they coach, teach, train, supervise or instruct B, on a regular
basis, in that sport or religion.

47.2.22A.2

In subsection (1)—

“ sport ” includes— any game in which physical skill is the predominant
factor, and any form of physical recreation which is also engaged in for
purposes of competition or display; “ religion ” includes— a religion which
involves belief in more than one god, and a religion which does not involve
belief in a god.

47.2.22A.3

This section does not apply where a person (A) is in a position of trust in
relation to another person (B) by virtue of circumstances within section 21.

47.2.22A.4

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsections (1) and (2) to add
or remove an activity in which a person may be coached, taught, trained,
supervised or instructed.

47.3

In section 138(2) (orders and regulations) after “section 21,” insert  “22A,”
.

###### Voyeurism: breast-feeding

48

48.1

Section 67A of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (voyeurism: additional offences)
is amended as follows.

48.2

After subsection (2) insert—

48.2.2A

A person (A) commits an offence if—

48.2.2A.a

A operates equipment,

48.2.2A.b

A does so with the intention of enabling A or another person (C), for a
purpose mentioned in subsection (3), to observe another (B) while B is breast-
feeding a child, and

48.2.2A.c

A does so—

48.2.2A.c.i

without B’s consent, and

48.2.2A.c.ii

without reasonably believing that B consents.

48.2.2B

A person (A) commits an offence if—

48.2.2B.a

A records an image of another (B) while B is breast-feeding a child,

48.2.2B.b

A does so with the intention that A or another person (C) will look at the
image for a purpose mentioned in subsection (3), and

48.2.2B.c

A does so—

48.2.2B.c.i

without B’s consent, and

48.2.2B.c.ii

without reasonably believing that B consents.

48.3

In subsection (3), for “and (2)” substitute  “to (2B)” .

48.4

After subsection (3) insert—

48.4.3A

In this section a reference to B breast-feeding a child includes B re-
arranging B’s clothing—

48.4.3A.a

in the course of preparing to breast-feed the child, or

48.4.3A.b

having just finished breast-feeding the child.

48.4.3B

It is irrelevant for the purposes of subsections (2A) and (2B)—

48.4.3B.a

whether or not B is in a public place while B is breast-feeding the child,

48.4.3B.b

whether or not B’s breasts are exposed while B is breast-feeding the child,
and

48.4.3B.c

what part of B’s body—

48.4.3B.c.i

is, or is intended by A to be, visible in the recorded image, or

48.4.3B.c.ii

is intended by A to be observed.

##### Domestic abuse

###### Time limit for prosecution of common assault or battery in domestic abuse cases

49

After section 39 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 insert—

########## Time limit for prosecution of common assault or battery in domestic abuse cases

49.39A

49.39A.1

This section applies to proceedings for an offence of common assault or
battery where—

49.39A.1.a

the alleged behaviour of the accused amounts to domestic abuse, and

49.39A.1.b

the condition in subsection (2) or (3) is met.

49.39A.2

The condition in this subsection is that—

49.39A.2.a

the complainant has made a witness statement with a view to its possible
admission as evidence in the proceedings, and

49.39A.2.b

the complainant has provided the statement to—

49.39A.2.b.i

a constable of a police force, or

49.39A.2.b.ii

a person authorised by a constable of a police force to receive the statement.

49.39A.3

The condition in this subsection is that—

49.39A.3.a

the complainant has been interviewed by—

49.39A.3.a.i

a constable of a police force, or

49.39A.3.a.ii

a person authorised by a constable of a police force to interview the
complainant, and

49.39A.3.b

a video recording of the interview has been made with a view to its possible
admission as the complainant’s evidence in chief in the proceedings.

49.39A.4

Proceedings to which this section applies may be commenced at any time which
is both—

49.39A.4.a

within two years from the date of the offence to which the proceedings relate,
and

49.39A.4.b

within six months from the first date on which either of the conditions in
subsection (2) or (3) was met.

49.39A.5

This section has effect despite section 127(1) of the Magistrates’ Court Act
1980 (limitation of time).

49.39A.6

In this section—

“ domestic abuse ” has the meaning given by section 1 of the Domestic Abuse
Act 2021; “ police force ” has the meaning given by section 3(3) of the
Prosecution of Offences Act 1985; “ video recording ” has the meaning given by
section 63(1) of the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999; “ witness
statement ” means a written statement that satisfies the conditions in section
9(2)(a) and (b) of the Criminal Justice Act 1967.

49.39A.7

This section does not apply in relation to an offence committed before the
coming into force of section 49 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts
Act 2022.

##### Criminal damage to memorials

###### Criminal damage to memorials: mode of trial

50

50.1

In Schedule 2 to the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980 (offences for which the
value involved is relevant to the mode of trial), in paragraph 1 (offences
under section 1 of the Criminal Damage Act 1971), in the first column, for the
words from “any offence” to the end substitute

— any offence committed by destroying or damaging property by fire, and any
offence committed by destroying or damaging a memorial (see section 22 (11A)
to  (11D) ).

50.2

In section 22 of that Act, after subsection (11) insert—

50.2.11A

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 “ memorial ” means—

50.2.11A.a

a building or other structure, or any other thing, erected or installed on
land (or in or on any building or other structure on land), or

50.2.11A.b

a garden or any other thing planted or grown on land,

which has a commemorative purpose.

50.2.11B

For the purposes of that paragraph, any moveable thing (such as a bunch of
flowers) which—

50.2.11B.a

is left in, on or at a memorial within the meaning of subsection (11A), and

50.2.11B.b

has (or can reasonably be assumed to have) a commemorative purpose,

is also to be regarded as a memorial.

50.2.11C

For the purposes of subsections  (11A)  and  (11B) —

50.2.11C.a

references to a building or a structure include a reference to part of a
building or part of a structure (as the case may be), and

50.2.11C.b

something has a commemorative purpose if at least one of its purposes is to
commemorate—

50.2.11C.b.i

one or more individuals or animals (or a particular description of individuals
or animals), or

50.2.11C.b.ii

an event or a series of events (such as an armed conflict).

50.2.11D

It is immaterial for the purposes of subsection  (11C)(b)(i)  whether or not
any individuals or animals concerned are or were (at any material time)—

50.2.11D.a

living or deceased, or

50.2.11D.b

capable of being identified.

50.3

The amendments made by this section do not apply in relation to offences
committed before it comes into force.

##### Overseas production orders

###### Overseas production orders

51

Schedule 5 contains amendments to the Crime (Overseas Production Orders) Act
2019.

##### Amendments to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 etc

###### Power to photograph certain persons at a police station

52

52.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

52.2

In section 64A (photographing of suspects etc.), after subsection (1B) insert—

52.2.1C

A person to whom subsection (1) or (1A) does not apply may be photographed at
a police station without the appropriate consent if that person falls within
subsection  (1D) ,  (1F)  or  (1H) .

52.2.1D

A person falls within this subsection if (before or after the coming into
force of this subsection) that person has been—

52.2.1D.a

arrested for a recordable offence and released,

52.2.1D.b

charged with a recordable offence, or

52.2.1D.c

informed that they will be reported for such an offence,

and either of the conditions in subsection  (1E)  is met in relation to that
person.

52.2.1E

The conditions referred to in subsection  (1D)  are—

52.2.1E.a

that the person has not been photographed in the course of the investigation
of the offence by the police, or

52.2.1E.b

that the person has been so photographed but—

52.2.1E.b.i

any photograph taken on such a previous occasion is unavailable or inadequate,
and

52.2.1E.b.ii

a constable considers that taking a further photograph is necessary to assist
in the prevention or detection of crime.

52.2.1F

A person falls within this subsection if (before or after the coming into
force of this subsection) that person has been—

52.2.1F.a

convicted of a recordable offence, or

52.2.1F.b

given a caution in respect of a recordable offence which, at the time of the
caution they have admitted,

and either of the conditions in subsection  (1G)  is met in relation to that
person.

52.2.1G

The conditions referred to in subsection  (1F)  are—

52.2.1G.a

that the person has not been photographed since being convicted or cautioned,
or

52.2.1G.b

that the person has been so photographed but—

52.2.1G.b.i

any photograph taken on such a previous occasion is unavailable or inadequate,
and

52.2.1G.b.ii

a constable considers that taking a further photograph is necessary to assist
in the prevention or detection of crime.

52.2.1H

A person falls within this subsection if—

52.2.1H.a

under the law in force in a country or territory outside England and Wales the
person has been convicted of an offence under that law (whether before or
after the coming into force of this subsection and whether or not they have
been punished for it),

52.2.1H.b

the act constituting the offence would constitute a qualifying offence if done
in England and Wales (whether or not it constituted such an offence when the
person was convicted), and

52.2.1H.c

either of the conditions in subsection  (1I)  is met in relation to that
person.

52.2.1I

The conditions referred to in subsection  (1H)  are—

52.2.1I.a

that the person has not been photographed on a previous occasion by virtue of
being a person falling within subsection (1H), or

52.2.1I.b

that the person has been so photographed but—

52.2.1I.b.i

any photograph taken on such a previous occasion is unavailable or inadequate,
and

52.2.1I.b.ii

a constable considers that taking a further photograph is necessary to assist
in the prevention or detection of crime.

52.2.1J

A person who falls within subsection  (1F)  or  (1H)  may be photographed
under subsection (1C) only with the authorisation of an officer of at least
the rank of inspector.

52.2.1K

An officer may only give an authorisation under subsection (1J) if the officer
is satisfied that taking the photograph is necessary to assist in the
prevention or detection of crime.

52.2.1L

In subsections (1E), (1G) and (1I)—

52.2.1L.a

references to a photograph being unavailable include references to a
photograph being lost or destroyed, and

52.2.1L.b

references to a photograph being inadequate include references to a photograph
being—

52.2.1L.b.i

unclear,

52.2.1L.b.ii

an incomplete photograph of the subject, or

52.2.1L.b.iii

no longer an accurate representation of the subject’s appearance.

52.2.1M

In subsections (1E), (1G), (1I) and (1K) references to crime include
references to any conduct which—

52.2.1M.a

constitutes one or more criminal offences (whether under the law of a part of
the United Kingdom or of a country or territory outside the United Kingdom),
or

52.2.1M.b

is, or corresponds to, any conduct which, if it all took place in any one part
of the United Kingdom, would constitute one or more criminal offences.

52.3

Schedule 2A (fingerprinting and samples: power to require attendance at police
station) is amended in accordance with subsections (4) to (8).

52.4

In the heading of the Schedule, for “and samples” substitute  “, samples and
photographs” .

52.5

After Part 3 insert—

############ Photographs

############# Persons arrested and released

52.5.14A

52.5.14A.1

A constable may require a person who falls within section 64A(1D)(a) to attend
a police station to be photographed under section 64A(1C).

52.5.14A.2

The power under sub-paragraph (1) may not be exercised in a case where section
64A(1E)(b) applies (photograph taken on a previous occasion unavailable or
inadequate) after the end of the period of six months beginning with the day
on which the appropriate officer was informed that section 64(1E)(b)(i)
applied.

52.5.14A.3

In sub-paragraph (2) the “ appropriate officer ” means the officer
investigating the offence for which the person was arrested.

############# Persons charged etc.

52.5.14B

52.5.14B.1

A constable may require a person who falls within section 64A(1D)(b) or (c) to
attend a police station to be photographed under section 64A(1C).

52.5.14B.2

The power under sub-paragraph (1) may not be exercised after the end of the
period of six months beginning with—

52.5.14B.2.a

in a case where section 64A(1E)(a) applies (photograph not previously taken),
the day on which the person was charged or informed that they would be
reported, or

52.5.14B.2.b

in a case where section 64A(1E)(b) applies (photograph taken on a previous
occasion unavailable or inadequate), the day on which the appropriate officer
was informed that section 64A(1E)(b)(i) applied.

52.5.14B.3

In sub-paragraph (2)(b) the “ appropriate officer ” means the officer
investigating the offence for which the person was charged or informed that
they would be reported.

############# Persons convicted of an offence etc. in England and Wales

52.5.14C

52.5.14C.1

A constable may require a person who falls within section 64A(1F) to attend a
police station to be photographed under section 64A(1C).

52.5.14C.2

Where section 64A(1G)(a) applies (photographs not previously taken), the power
under sub-paragraph (1) may not be exercised after the end of the period of
two years beginning with—

52.5.14C.2.a

the day on which the person was convicted or cautioned, or

52.5.14C.2.b

if later, the day on which this Part comes into force.

52.5.14C.3

Where section 64A(1G)(b) applies (photograph taken on previous occasion
unavailable or inadequate), the power under sub-paragraph (1) may not be
exercised after the end of the period of two years beginning with—

52.5.14C.3.a

the day on which an appropriate officer was informed that section
64A(1G)(b)(i) applied, or

52.5.14C.3.b

if later, the day on which this Part comes into force.

52.5.14C.4

In sub-paragraph (3)(a), “ appropriate officer ” means an officer of the
police force which investigated the offence in question.

52.5.14C.5

Sub-paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where the offence is a qualifying
offence (whether or not it was such an offence at the time of the conviction
or caution).

############# Persons convicted of an offence etc. outside England and Wales

52.5.14D

A constable may require a person falling within section 64A(1H) to attend at a
police station to be photographed under section 64A(1C).

############# Multiple exercise of power

52.5.14E

52.5.14E.1

Where a photograph is taken of a person under section 64A on two occasions in
relation to any offence, the person may not under this Schedule be required to
attend a police station to be photographed under that section in relation to
that offence on a subsequent occasion without the authorisation of an officer
of at least the rank of inspector.

52.5.14E.2

Where an authorisation is given under sub-paragraph (1)—

52.5.14E.2.a

the fact of the authorisation, and

52.5.14E.2.b

the reasons for giving it,

must be recorded as soon as practicable after it has been given.

52.6

In the italic heading before paragraph 15 (requirement to have power to take
fingerprints or sample), for “or sample” substitute  “, sample or photograph”
.

52.7

In paragraph 15—

52.7.a

for “or a sample” substitute  “, a sample or a photograph” , and

52.7.b

for “or sample”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “, sample or
photograph” .

52.8

In paragraph 16(2) (date and time of attendance), for “or sample” substitute
“, sample or photograph” .

###### Power to specify date of attendance at police station for fingerprinting etc

53

53.1

Paragraph 16 of Schedule 2A to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984
(attendance at police station for fingerprinting and taking of samples: date
and time of attendance) is amended as follows.

53.2

For sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

53.2.1

A requirement under this Schedule—

53.2.1.a

must direct the person to attend the police station on a specified date, and

53.2.1.b

may either direct the person to attend the police station at a specified time
on that date or direct the person to attend the police station between
specified times on that date.

53.3

In sub-paragraph (2), for “period or time or times of day” substitute  “date,
time or times” .

53.4

Omit sub-paragraphs (3) and (4).

53.5

In sub-paragraph (5), for “any period within which, or date or time at which,”
substitute  “any date, time at which or times between which” .

53.6

The amendments made by this section apply only in relation to a requirement to
attend a police station given under Schedule 2A to the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 after the coming into force of this section.

###### PACE etc powers for food crime officers

54

54.1

In the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, after section 114B insert—

############ Power to apply Act to food crime officers

54.1.114C

54.1.114C.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations apply any provision of this Act
which relates to investigations of offences conducted by police officers to
investigations of offences conducted by food crime officers.

54.1.114C.2

The regulations may apply provisions of this Act with any modifications
specified in the regulations.

54.1.114C.3

In this section “ food crime officer ” means an officer of the Food Standards
Agency who—

54.1.114C.3.a

is acting for the purposes of the performance by the Food Standards Agency of
its functions under the Food Standards Act 1999 or any other enactment
(including functions relating to the investigation of offences), and

54.1.114C.3.b

is authorised (whether generally or specifically) by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this section.

54.1.114C.4

The investigations for the purposes of which provisions of this Act may be
applied by regulations under this section include investigations of offences
committed, or suspected of having been committed, before the coming into force
of the regulations or of this section.

54.1.114C.5

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

54.1.114C.6

Regulations under this section may make—

54.1.114C.6.a

different provision for different purposes;

54.1.114C.6.b

provision which applies generally or for particular purposes;

54.1.114C.6.c

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional or transitory provision
or savings.

54.1.114C.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this section is subject to
annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

54.1.114C.8

In this section “ enactment ” includes—

54.1.114C.8.a

an enactment comprised in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978, and

54.1.114C.8.b

an enactment comprised in, or in an instrument made under, a Measure or Act of
Senedd Cymru.

54.2

In the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994, after section 39 insert—

############ Power to apply sections 36 and 37 in relation to food crime officers

54.2.39A

54.2.39A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for any provision of section
36 or 37 that applies in relation to a constable to apply in relation to a
food crime officer.

54.2.39A.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may apply any provision of section 36 or 37
with any modifications specified in the regulations.

54.2.39A.3

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may not apply a provision of section 36 or
37 in relation to a failure or refusal which occurred before the regulations
come into force.

54.2.39A.4

Regulations under subsection  (1)  are to be made by statutory instrument.

54.2.39A.5

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may make—

54.2.39A.5.a

different provision for different purposes;

54.2.39A.5.b

provision which applies generally or for particular purposes;

54.2.39A.5.c

incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional or transitory provision
or savings.

54.2.39A.6

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (1)  is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

54.2.39A.7

In this section “ food crime officer ” has the meaning given by section  114C
of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE powers for food crime
officers).

54.3

In the Food Standards Act 1999, after section 25 insert—

############ Obstruction of food crime officers

54.3.25A

54.3.25A.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

54.3.25A.1.a

intentionally obstructs a food crime officer who is acting in the exercise of
functions conferred on the officer by virtue of section  114C  of the Police
and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE powers for food crime officers),

54.3.25A.1.b

fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any requirement made of the
person by such a food crime officer who is so acting, or

54.3.25A.1.c

in purported compliance with such a requirement provides information which the
person knows to be false or misleading in any material particular or
recklessly provides information which is false or misleading in any material
particular.

54.3.25A.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 months or to a fine, or
to both.

54.3.25A.3

In this section “ food crime officer ” has the meaning given by section  114C
of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE powers for food crime
officers).

54.4

In the Police Reform Act 2002—

54.4.a

in section 10 (general functions of the Director General)—

54.4.a.i

in subsection (1), at the end of paragraph (ga) insert

; and

54.4.a.i.gb

to carry out such corresponding functions in relation to officers of the Food
Standards Agency acting in the exercise of functions conferred on them by
virtue of—

54.4.a.i.gb.i

section  114C  of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE powers for
food crime officers), or

54.4.a.i.gb.ii

section 39A of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (powers for food
crime officers: inferences from silence).

, and

54.4.a.ii

in subsection (3), after paragraph (bd) insert—

54.4.a.ii.be

any regulations under section  26E  of this Act (food crime officers);

, and

54.4.b

after section 26D insert—

############## Food crime officers

54.4.b.26E

54.4.b.26E.1

The Secretary of State may make regulations conferring functions on the
Director General in relation to officers of the Food Standards Agency (the
“Agency”) acting in the exercise of functions conferred on them by virtue of—

54.4.b.26E.1.a

section  114C  of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (PACE powers for
food crime officers), or

54.4.b.26E.1.b

section 39A of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 (powers for food
crime officers: inferences from silence).

54.4.b.26E.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular—

54.4.b.26E.2.a

apply (with or without modifications), or make provision similar to, any
provision of or made under this Part;

54.4.b.26E.2.b

make provision for payment by the Agency to, or in respect of, the Office or
in respect of the Director General.

54.4.b.26E.3

The Director General and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration may
jointly investigate a matter in relation to which—

54.4.b.26E.3.a

the Director General has functions by virtue of this section, and

54.4.b.26E.3.b

the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration has functions by virtue of
the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967.

54.4.b.26E.4

An officer of the Agency may disclose information to the Director General or
to a person acting on the Director General’s behalf, for the purposes of the
exercise by the Director General or by any person acting on the Director
General’s behalf, of an Agency complaints function.

54.4.b.26E.5

The Director General and the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration may
disclose information to each other for the purposes of the exercise of a
function—

54.4.b.26E.5.a

by virtue of this section, or

54.4.b.26E.5.b

under the Parliamentary Commissioner Act 1967.

54.4.b.26E.6

Regulations under this section may, in particular, make—

54.4.b.26E.6.a

further provision about the disclosure of information under subsection  (4)
or  (5) ;

54.4.b.26E.6.b

provision about the further disclosure of information that has been so
disclosed.

54.4.b.26E.7

A disclosure of information authorised by this section does not breach—

54.4.b.26E.7.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

54.4.b.26E.7.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

54.4.b.26E.8

But this section does not authorise a disclosure of information that—

54.4.b.26E.8.a

would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a
disclosure would do so, the power conferred by this section is to be taken
into account), or

54.4.b.26E.8.b

is prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

54.4.b.26E.9

In this section—

“ Agency complaints function ” means a function in relation to the exercise of
functions by officers of the Agency; “ data protection legislation ” has the
same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act).

54.5

The amendments made by subsections  (1)  to  (3)  and any regulations made
under provision inserted by subsections  (1)  and  (2)  bind the Crown.

54.6

No contravention by the Crown of section  25A  of the Food Standards Act 1999
(as inserted by subsection  (3) ) makes the Crown criminally liable; but the
High Court may declare unlawful any act or omission of the Crown which
constitutes such a contravention.

54.7

That section applies to persons in the public service of the Crown as it
applies to other persons.

54.8

If the Secretary of State certifies that it appears requisite or expedient in
the interests of national security that any powers of entry conferred by
regulations made under provision inserted by subsection  (1)  should not be
exercisable in relation to any Crown premises specified in the certificate,
those powers shall not be exercisable in relation to those premises.

54.9

In this section “ Crown premises ” means premises held or used by or on behalf
of the Crown.

54.10

Nothing in this section affects Her Majesty in her private capacity; and this
subsection is to be interpreted as if section 38(3) of the Crown Proceedings
Act 1947 (references to Her Majesty in her private capacity) were contained in
this Act.

##### Search for material relating to human remains

###### Entry and search of premises for human remains or material relating to human remains

55

55.1

On an application made by a constable, a justice of the peace may issue a
warrant authorising a constable to enter and search premises if the justice of
the peace is satisfied that the following conditions are met.

55.2

The first condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
there is material on the premises mentioned in subsection  (5)  that consists
of, or may relate to the location of, relevant human remains.

55.3

The second condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
the material does not consist of or include—

55.3.a

items subject to legal privilege,

55.3.b

excluded material, or

55.3.c

special procedure material.

55.4

The third condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing, in
relation to each set of premises specified in the application—

55.4.a

that it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to grant
entry to the premises,

55.4.b

that it is practicable to communicate with a person entitled to grant entry to
the premises but it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled
to grant access to the material,

55.4.c

that entry to the premises will not be granted unless a warrant is produced,
or

55.4.d

that the purpose of a search may be frustrated or seriously prejudiced unless
a constable arriving at the premises can secure immediate entry to them.

55.5

The premises referred to in subsection  (2)  are—

55.5.a

one or more sets of premises specified in the application (in which case the
application is for a “specific premises warrant”), or

55.5.b

any premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the application,
including such sets of premises as are so specified (in which case the
application is for an “all premises warrant”).

55.6

If the application is for an all premises warrant, the justice of the peace
must also be satisfied—

55.6.a

that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is necessary to search
premises occupied or controlled by the person in question which are not
specified in the application in order to find the material referred to in
subsection  (2) , and

55.6.b

that it is not reasonably practicable to specify in the application all the
premises which the person occupies or controls and which might need to be
searched.

55.7

The warrant may authorise entry to and search of premises on more than one
occasion if, on the application, the justice of the peace is satisfied that it
is necessary to authorise multiple entries in order to achieve the purpose for
which the justice of the peace issues the warrant.

55.8

If the warrant authorises multiple entries, the number of entries authorised
may be unlimited, or limited to a maximum.

55.9

A constable may—

55.9.a

seize and retain anything for which a search has been authorised under
subsection  (1) , and

55.9.b

if necessary, use reasonable force in the exercise of a power conferred by a
warrant issued under this section.

55.10

The power to issue a warrant conferred by this section is in addition to any
such power otherwise conferred.

55.11

In this section, section 56 and Schedule 6 “ relevant human remains ” means
the body or any other human remains of—

55.11.a

a person who the constable making the application reasonably believes to have
died in England and Wales but whose death has not been registered under
section 15 of the Births and Deaths Registration Act 1953,

55.11.b

a person whose death has been registered under that Act following an
investigation under section 1(5) of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, or

55.11.c

a person in respect of whom a declaration has been made under section 2 of the
Presumption of Death Act 2013.

55.12

In this section, section 56 and Schedule 6 the following expressions have the
same meaning as in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984—

55.12.a

“ items subject to legal privilege ” (see section 10 of that Act);

55.12.b

“ excluded material ” (see section 11 of that Act);

55.12.c

“ special procedure material ” (see section 14 of that Act);

55.12.d

“ premises ” (see section 23 of that Act).

###### Special procedure for access to material relating to human remains

56

56.1

Schedule 6 makes provision for a constable to obtain access to excluded
material or special procedure material that consists of, or relates to the
location of, relevant human remains.

56.2

Section 4 of the Summary Jurisdiction (Process) Act 1881 (which includes
provision for the execution of process of English and Welsh courts in
Scotland) and section 29 of the Petty Sessions (Ireland) Act 1851 (which makes
equivalent provision for execution in Northern Ireland) apply to any process
issued by a judge under Schedule 6 to this Act as they apply to process issued
by a magistrates’ court under the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980.

###### Additional seizure powers

57

In Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 (powers of
seizure to which section 50 of that Act applies), at the end insert—

########## Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022

57.73U

Each of the powers of seizure conferred by section 55 (9)(a)  of, and
paragraph  11(a)  of Schedule 6 to, the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts
Act 2022 (seizure in connection with human remains or material relating to
human remains).

##### Prisoner custody officers

###### Functions of prisoner custody officers in relation to live link hearings

58

58.1

The Criminal Justice Act 1991 is amended as follows.

58.2

Section 80 (arrangements for the provision of prisoner escorts) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

58.3

In subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

58.3.ba

the custody of prisoners at a police station for any purpose connected with
their participation in a preliminary, sentencing or enforcement hearing
through a live audio link or live video link;

.

58.4

After subsection (1A) insert—

58.4.1B

Subsection (1)(ba) applies in relation to prisoners whether the hearing is yet
to take place, is taking place or has taken place.

58.5

In subsection (4), at the appropriate place insert—

“enforcement hearing”, “live audio link”, “live video link”, “preliminary
hearing” and “sentencing hearing” each has the meaning given in section 56(1)
of the Criminal Justice Act 2003;

.

58.6

Section 82 (powers and duties of prisoner custody officers) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (7)  and  (8) .

58.7

After subsection (4) insert—

58.7.4A

Subsections (4B) and (4C) apply if a prisoner custody officer acting in
pursuance of prisoner escort arrangements is at a police station for the
purposes of exercising functions under section 80(1)(ba) (custody of prisoners
in relation to live link proceedings) in relation to a prisoner.

58.7.4B

It is the prisoner custody officer’s duty to give effect to—

58.7.4B.a

any order of the Crown Court under section 142 of the Powers of Criminal
Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 in relation to the prisoner, or

58.7.4B.b

any order of a magistrates’ court under section 80 of the 1980 Act in relation
to the prisoner.

58.7.4C

The fact that the prisoner custody officer is exercising, or may exercise,
functions under section 80(1)(ba) in relation to the prisoner does not prevent
a constable from exercising any powers in relation to the prisoner that are
otherwise available to the constable.

58.8

In subsection (5) for “and (4)” substitute  “, (4) and (4B)” .

##### Proceeds of crime

###### Proceeds of crime: account freezing orders

59

59.1

In section 303Z1 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 (application for account
freezing order)—

59.1.a

omit subsections (5A) and (5B), and

59.1.b

in subsection (6), at the appropriate place insert—

“ relevant financial institution ” means— a bank, a building society, an
electronic money institution, or a payment institution.

59.2

In section 316(1) of that Act (general interpretation), in the definition of
“relevant financial institution”, after “303Z1” insert  “(6)” .

59.3

In section 48 of the Financial Services Act 2021 (extent)—

59.3.a

in subsection (1), for “subsections (2) and (3)” substitute  “subsection (2)”
, and

59.3.b

omit subsection (3).

59.4

In paragraph 14 of Schedule 12 to that Act (forfeiture of money: electronic
money institutions and payment institutions) omit sub-paragraphs (3) and (4).

##### Non-criminal hate incidents

###### Code of practice relating to non-criminal hate incidents

60

60.1

The Secretary of State may issue a code of practice about the processing by a
relevant person of personal data relating to a hate incident.

60.2

In this section “ hate incident ” means an incident or alleged incident which
involves or is alleged to involve an act by a person (“the alleged
perpetrator”) which is perceived by a person other than the alleged
perpetrator to be motivated (wholly or partly) by hostility or prejudice
towards persons with a particular characteristic.

60.3

The provision that may be made by a code of practice under this section
includes, in particular, provision about—

60.3.a

whether and how personal data relating to a hate incident should be recorded;

60.3.b

the persons who are to process such personal data;

60.3.c

the circumstances in which a data subject should be notified of the processing
of such personal data;

60.3.d

the retention of such personal data, including the period for which it should
be retained and the circumstances in which and the procedures by which that
period might be changed;

60.3.e

the consideration by a relevant person of requests by the data subject
relating to such personal data.

60.4

But a code of practice under this section must not make provision about—

60.4.a

the processing of personal data for the purposes of a criminal investigation,
or

60.4.b

the processing of personal data relating to the alleged perpetrator of a hate
incident at any time after they have been charged with an offence relating to
the hate incident.

60.5

A code of practice under this section may make different provision for
different purposes.

60.6

A relevant person must have regard to the code of practice that is for the
time being in force under this section in processing personal data relating to
a hate incident.

60.7

In this section—

“ data subject ” has the meaning given by section 3(5) of the Data Protection
Act 2018; “ personal data ” has the meaning given by section 3(2) of that Act;
“ processing ” has the meaning given by section 3(4) of that Act.

60.8

In this section “ relevant person ” means—

60.8.a

a member of a police force in England and Wales,

60.8.b

a special constable appointed under section 27 of the Police Act 1996,

60.8.c

a member of staff appointed by the chief officer of police of a police force
in England and Wales,

60.8.d

a person designated as a community support volunteer or a policing support
volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002,

60.8.e

an employee of the Common Council of the City of London who is under the
direction and control of a chief officer of police,

60.8.f

a constable of the British Transport Police Force,

60.8.g

a special constable of the British Transport Police Force appointed under
section 25 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003,

60.8.h

an employee of the British Transport Police Authority appointed under section
27 of that Act,

60.8.i

a person designated as a community support volunteer or a policing support
volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002 as applied by section
28 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003, or

60.8.j

a National Crime Agency officer.

###### Further provision about a code of practice under section 60

61

61.1

The Secretary of State may not issue a code of practice under section 60
unless a draft of the code has been laid before and approved by a resolution
of each House of Parliament.

61.2

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise and reissue a code of
practice under section 60.

61.3

Before reissuing a code of practice the Secretary of State must lay a draft of
the code as proposed to be reissued before Parliament.

61.4

If, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the code of practice laid under subsection  (3) —

61.4.a

the code is not to be reissued, and

61.4.b

the Secretary of State may prepare another code.

61.5

If no such resolution is passed within the 40-day period, the Secretary of
State may reissue the code of practice.

61.6

In this section “ the 40-day period ” means—

61.6.a

the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the draft is laid before
Parliament, or

61.6.b

if the draft is not laid before each House on the same day, the period of 40
days beginning with the later of the days on which it is laid before
Parliament.

61.7

In calculating the 40-day period no account is to be taken of any period
during which Parliament is dissolved or prorogued or during which both Houses
of Parliament are adjourned for more than 4 days.

##### Offences relating to hares etc

###### Increase in penalty for offences related to game etc

62

62.1

Section 1 of the Night Poaching Act 1828 (taking or destroying game or rabbits
by night or entering land for that purpose) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

62.2

The existing text becomes subsection (1).

62.3

In that subsection—

62.3.a

after “conviction” insert  “to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51
weeks,” , and

62.3.b

for “not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale” substitute  “or to both” .

62.4

After that subsection insert—

62.4.2

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection (1) to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

62.5

Section 30 of the Game Act 1831 (trespass in daytime in search of game etc) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (6)  to  (8) .

62.6

The existing text becomes subsection (1).

62.7

In that subsection—

62.7.a

for the words from “conviction”, in the first place it occurs, to “seem meet”,
in the second place it occurs, substitute  “summary conviction, be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine or to both” , and

62.7.b

for “each of the two offences” substitute  “the offence” .

62.8

After that subsection insert—

62.8.2

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection (1) to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

62.9

In section 4A of the Game Laws (Amendment) Act 1960 (forfeiture of vehicles),
in subsection (1), omit “as one of five or more persons liable under that
section”.

62.10

The amendments made by this section have effect only in relation to offences
committed on or after the day on which this section comes into force.

###### Trespass with intent to search for or to pursue hares with dogs etc

63

63.1

A person commits an offence if they trespass on land with the intention of—

63.1.a

using a dog to search for or to pursue a hare,

63.1.b

facilitating or encouraging the use of a dog to search for or to pursue a
hare, or

63.1.c

enabling another person to observe the use of a dog to search for or to pursue
a hare.

63.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for the trespass mentioned in that
subsection.

63.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine or to
both.

63.4

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection  (3)  to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

###### Being equipped for searching for or pursuing hares with dogs etc

64

64.1

A person commits an offence if they have an article with them in a place other
than a dwelling with the intention that it will be used in the course of or in
connection with the commission by any person of an offence under section 63
(trespass with intent to search for or to pursue hares with dogs etc).

64.2

Where a person is charged with an offence under subsection  (1) , proof that
the person had with them any article made or adapted for use in committing an
offence under section 63 is evidence that the person had it with them with the
intention that it would be used in the course of or in connection with the
commission by any person of an offence under that section.

64.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks, to a fine or to
both.

64.4

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection  (3)  to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

64.5

In this section—

“ article ” includes a vehicle and, except in subsection  (2) , an animal; “
dwelling ” means— a building or structure which is used as a dwelling, or a
part of a building or structure, if the part is used as a dwelling, and
includes any yard, garden, garage or outhouse belonging to and used with a
dwelling.

###### Recovery order on conviction for certain offences involving dogs

65

65.1

This section applies where—

65.1.a

a person is convicted of an offence within subsection  (5)  which was
committed on or after the day on which this section comes into force,

65.1.b

a dog was used in or was present at the commission of the offence, and

65.1.c

the dog was lawfully seized and detained in connection with the offence.

65.2

The court may make an order (a “recovery order”) requiring the offender to pay
all the expenses incurred by reason of the dog’s seizure and detention.

65.3

Any sum required to be paid under subsection  (2)  is to be treated for the
purposes of enforcement as if it were a fine imposed on conviction.

65.4

Where a recovery order is available for an offence, the court may make such an
order whether or not it deals with the offender in any other way for the
offence.

65.5

The following offences are within this subsection—

65.5.a

an offence under section 1 of the Night Poaching Act 1828 (taking or
destroying game or rabbits by night or entering land for that purpose);

65.5.b

an offence under section 30 of the Game Act 1831 (trespass in daytime in
search of game etc);

65.5.c

an offence under section 63 (trespass with intent to search for or to pursue
hares with dogs etc);

65.5.d

an offence under section 64 (being equipped for searching for or pursuing
hares with dogs etc).

###### Disqualification order on conviction for certain offences involving dogs

66

66.1

This section applies where—

66.1.a

a person is convicted of an offence within subsection  (9)  which was
committed on or after the day on which this section comes into force, and

66.1.b

a dog was used in or was present at the commission of the offence.

66.2

The court may make an order (a “disqualification order”) disqualifying the
offender, for such period as the court thinks fit, from—

66.2.a

owning dogs,

66.2.b

keeping dogs, or

66.2.c

both.

66.3

The disqualification order may specify a period during which the offender may
not make an application under section 68 to terminate the order.

66.4

The court may, where it appears to the court that the offender owns or keeps a
dog, suspend the operation of the disqualification order for such period as it
thinks necessary for enabling alternative arrangements to be made in respect
of the dog.

66.5

Where a court makes a disqualification order, it must—

66.5.a

give its reasons for making the order in open court, and

66.5.b

cause them to be entered in the register of its proceedings.

66.6

A person who breaches a disqualification order commits an offence.

66.7

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (6)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

66.8

Where a disqualification order is available for an offence, the court may make
such an order whether or not it deals with the offender in any other way for
the offence.

66.9

The following offences are within this subsection—

66.9.a

an offence under section 1 of the Night Poaching Act 1828 (taking or
destroying game or rabbits by night or entering land for that purpose);

66.9.b

an offence under section 30 of the Game Act 1831 (trespass in daytime in
search of game etc);

66.9.c

an offence under section 63 (trespass with intent to search for or to pursue
hares with dogs etc);

66.9.d

an offence under section 64 (being equipped for searching for or pursuing
hares with dogs etc).

66.10

In section 171 of the Sentencing Code (offences relating to animals), after
subsection (2) insert—

66.10.3

See section 66 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022
(disqualification order on conviction for certain offences involving dogs) for
orders relating to disqualification in the case of offences involving dogs
under that Act, the Night Poaching Act 1828 and the Game Act 1831.

###### Seizure and disposal of dogs in connection with disqualification order

67

67.1

Where, on a court making a disqualification order, it appears to the court
that the person to whom the order applies owns or keeps a dog contrary to the
order, the court may order that the dog be taken into possession.

67.2

Where a person is convicted of an offence under section 66 (6)  by reason of
owning or keeping a dog in breach of a disqualification order, the court by
which the person is convicted may order that all dogs owned or kept in breach
of the order be taken into possession.

67.3

An order under subsection  (1)  or  (2) , so far as relating to any dog owned
by the person to whom the disqualification order applies, must make provision
for disposal of the dog.

67.4

Any dog taken into possession in pursuance of an order under subsection  (1)
or  (2)  that is not owned by the person subject to the disqualification order
is to be dealt with in such manner as an appropriate court may order.

67.5

But an order under subsection  (4)  may not provide for the dog to be—

67.5.a

destroyed, or

67.5.b

disposed of for the purposes of vivisection.

67.6

A court may not make an order for disposal of the dog under subsection  (4)
unless—

67.6.a

it has given the owner of the dog an opportunity to be heard, or

67.6.b

it is satisfied that it is not reasonably practicable to communicate with the
owner.

67.7

Where a court makes an order under subsection  (4)  for the disposal of the
dog, the owner of the dog may appeal against the order to the Crown Court.

67.8

In this section—

“ appropriate court ” means— the magistrates’ court which made the order under
subsection  (1)  or  (2) , or another magistrates’ court acting for the same
local justice area as that court; “ disqualification order ” has the same
meaning as in section 66.

67.9

In this section references to disposing of a dog do not include—

67.9.a

destroying it, or

67.9.b

disposing of it for the purposes of vivisection.

###### Termination of disqualification order

68

68.1

A person who is subject to a disqualification order may apply to an
appropriate court for the order to be terminated.

68.2

No application under subsection  (1)  may be made—

68.2.a

before the end of the period of one year beginning with the date on which the
disqualification order was made,

68.2.b

where a previous application under that subsection has been made in relation
to the same order, before the end of the period of one year beginning with the
date on which the previous application was determined, or

68.2.c

before the end of any period specified under section 66 (3) , or subsection
(5) , in relation to the order.

68.3

On an application under subsection  (1) , the court may—

68.3.a

terminate the disqualification order,

68.3.b

vary the order so as to make it less onerous, or

68.3.c

refuse the application.

68.4

When determining an application under subsection  (1) , the court is to have
regard to—

68.4.a

the character of the applicant,

68.4.b

the applicant’s conduct since the disqualification order was made, and

68.4.c

any other relevant circumstances.

68.5

Where the court refuses an application under subsection  (1)  or varies a
disqualification order on such an application, it may specify a period during
which the applicant may not make a further application under that subsection
in relation to the order concerned.

68.6

The court may order an applicant to pay all or part of the costs of an
application.

68.7

In this section—

“ appropriate court ” means— the magistrates’ court which made the
disqualification order, or another magistrates’ court acting for the same
local justice area as that court; “ disqualification order ” has the same
meaning as in section 66.

###### Section 67: supplementary

69

69.1

The court by which an order under section 67 is made may—

69.1.a

appoint a person to carry out, or arrange for the carrying out of, the order;

69.1.b

require any person who has possession of a dog to which the order applies to
deliver it up to enable the order to be carried out;

69.1.c

give directions with respect to the carrying out of the order;

69.1.d

confer additional powers (including power to enter premises where a dog to
which the order applies is being kept) for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the carrying out of the order;

69.1.e

order the person who committed the offence in relation to which the order was
made, or another person, to reimburse the expenses of carrying out the order.

69.2

A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed under subsection
(1)(b)  commits an offence.

69.3

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (2)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

69.4

Directions under subsection  (1)(c)  may—

69.4.a

specify the manner in which a dog is to be disposed of, or

69.4.b

delegate the decision about the manner in which a dog is to be disposed of to
a person appointed under subsection  (1)(a) .

69.5

In determining how to exercise its powers under section 67 and this section
the court is to have regard (amongst other things) to—

69.5.a

the desirability of protecting the value of any dog to which the order under
section 67 applies, and

69.5.b

the desirability of avoiding increasing any expenses which a person may be
ordered to reimburse.

69.6

In determining how to exercise a power delegated under subsection  (4)(b) , a
person is to have regard, amongst other things, to the things mentioned in
subsection  (5)(a)  and  (b) .

69.7

If the owner of a dog ordered to be disposed of under section 67 is subject to
a liability by virtue of subsection  (1)(e) , any amount to which the owner is
entitled as a result of sale of the dog may be reduced by an amount equal to
that liability.

69.8

Any sum ordered to be paid under subsection  (1)(e)  is to be treated for the
purposes of enforcement as if it were a fine imposed on conviction.

69.9

In this section references to disposing of a dog do not include—

69.9.a

destroying it, or

69.9.b

disposing of it for the purposes of vivisection.

###### Disqualification orders: appeals

70

70.1

Nothing may be done under an order under section 66 or 67 with respect to a
dog unless—

70.1.a

the period for giving notice of appeal against the order has expired,

70.1.b

the period for giving notice of appeal against the conviction on which the
order was made has expired, and

70.1.c

if the order or conviction is the subject of an appeal, the appeal has been
determined or withdrawn.

70.2

Where the effect of an order is suspended under subsection  (1) —

70.2.a

no requirement imposed or directions given in connection with the order have
effect, but

70.2.b

the court may give directions about how any dog to which the order applies is
to be dealt with during the suspension.

70.3

Directions under subsection  (2)(b)  may, in particular—

70.3.a

authorise the dog to be taken into possession;

70.3.b

authorise the dog to be cared for either on the premises where it was being
kept when it was taken into possession or at some other place;

70.3.c

appoint a person to carry out, or arrange for the carrying out of, the
directions;

70.3.d

require any person who has possession of the dog to deliver it up for the
purposes of the directions;

70.3.e

confer additional powers (including power to enter premises where the dog is
being kept) for the purpose of, or in connection with, the carrying out of the
directions;

70.3.f

provide for the recovery of any expenses in relation to the removal or care of
the dog which are incurred in carrying out the directions.

70.4

A person who fails to comply with a requirement imposed under subsection
(3)(d)  commits an offence.

70.5

A person guilty an offence under subsection  (4)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

70.6

Any sum directed to be paid under subsection  (3)(f)  is to be treated for the
purposes of enforcement as if it were a fine imposed on conviction.

##### Administering a substance with intent to cause harm

###### Administering a substance with intent to cause harm

71

71.1

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the relevant period—

71.1.a

prepare and publish a report—

71.1.a.i

about the nature and prevalence of the conduct described in subsection (2),
and

71.1.a.ii

setting out any steps Her Majesty’s Government has taken or intends to take in
relation to the matters referred to in sub-paragraph (i), and

71.1.b

lay the report before Parliament.

71.2

The conduct referred to in subsection (1)(a)(i) is a person intentionally
administering a substance to, or causing a substance to be taken by, another
person—

71.2.a

without the consent of that other person, and

71.2.b

with the intention of causing harm (whether or not amounting to an offence) to
that other person.

71.3

In subsection (1), the “ relevant period ” means the period of 12 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

##### Offences motivated by hostility based on sex or gender

###### Response to Law Commission report on hate crime laws

72

72.1

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the period of 12 months
beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

72.1.a

prepare and publish a response to Recommendation 8 of the Law Commission
report on hate crime (adding sex or gender as a protected characteristic for
the purposes of aggravated offences and enhanced sentencing), and

72.1.b

lay the response before Parliament.

72.2

In this section “ the Law Commission report on hate crime ” means the Law
Commission report “Hate Crime Laws” that was published on 7 December 2021.

### Public order

#### Public processions and public assemblies

##### Imposing conditions on public processions

73

73.1

Section 12 of the Public Order Act 1986 (imposing conditions on public
processions) is amended as follows.

73.2

In subsection (1)—

73.2.a

for the “or” at the end of paragraph (a) substitute—

73.2.a.aa

in the case of a procession in England and Wales, the noise generated by
persons taking part in the procession may result in serious disruption to the
activities of an organisation which are carried on in the vicinity of the
procession,

73.2.a.ab

in the case of a procession in England and Wales—

73.2.a.ab.i

the noise generated by persons taking part in the procession may have a
relevant impact on persons in the vicinity of the procession, and

73.2.a.ab.ii

that impact may be significant, or

, and

73.2.b

in the words following paragraph (b), after “disruption” insert  “, impact” .

73.3

After subsection (2) insert—

73.3.2A

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the cases in which a public procession
in England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the
community include, in particular, where—

73.3.2A.a

it may result in a significant delay to the delivery of a time-sensitive
product to consumers of that product, or

73.3.2A.b

it may result in a prolonged disruption of access to any essential goods or
any essential service, including, in particular, access to—

73.3.2A.b.i

the supply of money, food, water, energy or fuel,

73.3.2A.b.ii

a system of communication,

73.3.2A.b.iii

a place of worship,

73.3.2A.b.iv

a transport facility,

73.3.2A.b.v

an educational institution, or

73.3.2A.b.vi

a service relating to health.

73.3.2B

In subsection  (2A)(a)  “ time-sensitive product ” means a product whose value
or use to its consumers may be significantly reduced by a delay in the supply
of the product to them.

73.3.2C

For the purposes of subsection (1)(aa), the cases in which the noise generated
by persons taking part in a public procession may result in serious disruption
to the activities of an organisation which are carried on in the vicinity of
the procession include, in particular, where it may result in persons
connected with the organisation not being reasonably able, for a prolonged
period of time, to carry on in that vicinity the activities or any one of
them.

73.3.2D

For the purposes of subsection (1)(ab)(i), the noise generated by persons
taking part in a public procession may have a relevant impact on persons in
the vicinity of the procession if—

73.3.2D.a

it may result in the intimidation or harassment of persons of reasonable
firmness with the characteristics of persons likely to be in the vicinity, or

73.3.2D.b

it may cause such persons to suffer alarm or distress.

73.3.2E

In considering for the purposes of subsection (1)(ab)(ii) whether the noise
generated by persons taking part in a public procession may have a significant
impact on persons in the vicinity of the procession, the senior police officer
must have regard to—

73.3.2E.a

the likely number of persons of the kind mentioned in paragraph (a) of
subsection  (2D)  who may experience an impact of the kind mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b) of that subsection,

73.3.2E.b

the likely duration of that impact on such persons, and

73.3.2E.c

the likely intensity of that impact on such persons.

73.4

After subsection (11) insert—

73.4.12

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend any of subsections (2A) to
(2C) for the purposes of making provision about the meaning for the purposes
of this section of—

73.4.12.a

serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on
in the vicinity of a public procession, or

73.4.12.b

serious disruption to the life of the community.

73.4.13

Regulations under subsection (12) may, in particular, amend any of those
subsections for the purposes of—

73.4.13.a

defining any aspect of an expression mentioned in subsection (12)(a) or (b)
for the purposes of this section;

73.4.13.b

giving examples of cases in which a public procession is or is not to be
treated as resulting in—

73.4.13.b.i

serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on
in the vicinity of the procession, or

73.4.13.b.ii

serious disruption to the life of the community.

73.4.14

Regulations under subsection (12)—

73.4.14.a

are to be made by statutory instrument;

73.4.14.b

may apply only in relation to public processions in England and Wales;

73.4.14.c

may make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision, including provision which makes consequential amendments to
this Part.

73.4.15

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection (12) may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

73.5

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the period of 2 years beginning
with the day on which this section comes into force—

73.5.a

prepare and publish a report on the operation of the amendments to section 12
of the Public Order Act 1986 made by this section, and

73.5.b

lay the report before Parliament.

##### Imposing conditions on public assemblies

74

74.1

Section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 (imposing conditions on public
assemblies) is amended as follows.

74.2

In subsection (1)—

74.2.a

for “If” substitute  “Subsection (1A) applies if” ,

74.2.b

for the “or” at the end of paragraph (a) substitute—

74.2.b.aa

in the case of an assembly in England and Wales, the noise generated by
persons taking part in the assembly may result in serious disruption to the
activities of an organisation which are carried on in the vicinity of the
assembly,

74.2.b.ab

in the case of an assembly in England and Wales—

74.2.b.ab.i

the noise generated by persons taking part in the assembly may have a relevant
impact on persons in the vicinity of the assembly, and

74.2.b.ab.ii

that impact may be significant, or

, and

74.2.c

omit the words after paragraph (b).

74.3

After subsection (1) insert—

74.3.1A

The senior police officer may give directions imposing on the persons
organising or taking part in the assembly—

74.3.1A.a

in the case of an assembly in England and Wales, such conditions as appear to
the officer necessary to prevent the disorder, damage, disruption, impact or
intimidation mentioned in subsection (1);

74.3.1A.b

in the case of an assembly in Scotland, such conditions as to the place at
which the assembly may be (or continue to be) held, its maximum duration, or
the maximum number of persons who may constitute it, as appear to the officer
necessary to prevent the disorder, damage, disruption or intimidation
mentioned in subsection (1)(a) or (b).

74.4

In subsection (2), for “subsection (1)” substitute  “this section” .

74.5

After subsection (2) insert—

74.5.2A

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the cases in which a public assembly in
England and Wales may result in serious disruption to the life of the
community include, in particular, where—

74.5.2A.a

it may result in a significant delay to the supply of a time-sensitive product
to consumers of that product, or

74.5.2A.b

it may result in a prolonged disruption of access to any essential goods or
any essential service, including, in particular, access to—

74.5.2A.b.i

the supply of money, food, water, energy or fuel,

74.5.2A.b.ii

a system of communication,

74.5.2A.b.iii

a place of worship,

74.5.2A.b.iv

a transport facility,

74.5.2A.b.v

an educational institution, or

74.5.2A.b.vi

a service relating to health.

74.5.2B

In subsection  (2A)(a)  “ time-sensitive product ” means a product whose value
or use to its consumers may be significantly reduced by a delay in the supply
of the product to them.

74.5.2C

For the purposes of subsection (1)(aa), the cases in which the noise generated
by persons taking part in a public assembly may result in serious disruption
to the activities of an organisation which are carried on in the vicinity of
the assembly include, in particular, where it may result in persons connected
with the organisation not being reasonably able, for a prolonged period of
time, to carry on in that vicinity the activities or any one of them.

74.5.2D

For the purposes of subsection (1)(ab)(i), the noise generated by persons
taking part in an assembly may have a relevant impact on persons in the
vicinity of the assembly if—

74.5.2D.a

it may result in the intimidation or harassment of persons of reasonable
firmness with the characteristics of persons likely to be in the vicinity, or

74.5.2D.b

it may cause such persons to suffer alarm or distress.

74.5.2E

In considering for the purposes of subsection (1)(ab)(ii) whether the noise
generated by persons taking part in an assembly may have a significant impact
on persons in the vicinity of the assembly, the senior police officer must
have regard to—

74.5.2E.a

the likely number of persons of the kind mentioned in paragraph (a) of
subsection (2D) who may experience an impact of the kind mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b) of that subsection,

74.5.2E.b

the likely duration of that impact on such persons, and

74.5.2E.c

the likely intensity of that impact on such persons.

74.6

After subsection (10A) (as inserted by section 75 (11) ) insert—

74.6.11

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend any of subsections (2A) to
(2C) for the purposes of making provision about the meaning for the purposes
of this section of—

74.6.11.a

serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on
in the vicinity of a public assembly, or

74.6.11.b

serious disruption to the life of the community.

74.6.12

Regulations under subsection (11) may, in particular, amend any of those
subsections for the purposes of—

74.6.12.a

defining any aspect of an expression mentioned in subsection (11)(a) or (b)
for the purposes of this section;

74.6.12.b

giving examples of cases in which a public assembly is or is not to be treated
as resulting in—

74.6.12.b.i

serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on
in the vicinity of the assembly, or

74.6.12.b.ii

serious disruption to the life of the community.

74.6.13

Regulations under subsection (11)—

74.6.13.a

are to be made by statutory instrument;

74.6.13.b

may apply only in relation to public assemblies in England and Wales;

74.6.13.c

may make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision, including provision which makes consequential amendments to
this Part.

74.6.14

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection (11) may not be
made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by a
resolution of each House of Parliament.

74.7

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the period of 2 years beginning
with the day on which this section comes into force—

74.7.a

prepare and publish a report on the operation of the amendments to section 14
of the Public Order Act 1986 made by this section, and

74.7.b

lay the report before Parliament.

##### Offences under sections 12 and 14 of the Public Order Act 1986

75

75.1

The Public Order Act 1986 is amended as follows.

75.2

Section 12 (imposing conditions on public processions) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (6) .

75.3

In subsection (4)—

75.3.a

for “A person” substitute  “Subject to subsection (5A), a person” , and

75.3.b

omit “knowingly”.

75.4

In subsection (5)—

75.4.a

for “A person” substitute  “Subject to subsection (5A), a person” , and

75.4.b

omit “knowingly”.

75.5

After subsection (5) insert—

75.5.5A

A person is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) or (5) only if—

75.5.5A.a

in the case of a public procession in England and Wales, at the time the
person fails to comply with the condition the person knows or ought to know
that the condition has been imposed;

75.5.5A.b

in the case of a public procession in Scotland, the person knowingly fails to
comply with the condition.

75.6

For subsections (8) to (10) substitute—

75.6.8

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.6.8.a

in the case of a public procession in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 51 weeks or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard
scale or both;

75.6.8.b

in the case of a public procession in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or
both.

75.6.9

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.6.9.a

in the case of a public procession in England and Wales, to a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale;

75.6.9.b

in the case of a public procession in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level
3 on the standard scale.

75.6.10

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (6) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.6.10.a

in the case of a public procession in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 51 weeks or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard
scale or both;

75.6.10.b

in the case of a public procession in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or
both.

75.6.10A

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the references in subsections (8)(a) and
to (10)(a) to 51 weeks are to be read as references to 6 months.

75.7

Section 14 (imposing conditions on public assemblies) is amended in accordance
with subsections  (8)  to  (11) .

75.8

In subsection (4)—

75.8.a

for “A person” substitute  “Subject to subsection (5A), a person” , and

75.8.b

omit “knowingly”.

75.9

In subsection (5)—

75.9.a

for “A person” substitute  “Subject to subsection (5A), a person” , and

75.9.b

omit “knowingly”.

75.10

After subsection (5) insert—

75.10.5A

A person is guilty of an offence under subsection (4) or (5) only if—

75.10.5A.a

in the case of a public assembly in England and Wales, at the time the person
fails to comply with the condition the person knows or ought to know that the
condition has been imposed;

75.10.5A.b

in the case of a public assembly in Scotland, the person knowingly fails to
comply with the condition.

75.11

For subsections (8) to (10) substitute—

75.11.8

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (4) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.11.8.a

in the case of a public assembly in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 51 weeks or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard
scale or both;

75.11.8.b

in the case of a public assembly in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or
both.

75.11.9

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (5) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.11.9.a

in the case of a public assembly in England and Wales, to a fine not exceeding
level 4 on the standard scale;

75.11.9.b

in the case of a public assembly in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding level 3
on the standard scale.

75.11.10

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (6) is liable on summary
conviction—

75.11.10.a

in the case of a public assembly in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 51 weeks or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard
scale or both;

75.11.10.b

in the case of a public assembly in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 months or a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or
both.

75.11.10A

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the references in subsections (8)(a) and
to (10)(a) to 51 weeks are to be read as references to 6 months.

75.12

Subsections  (6)  and  (11)  apply only in relation to offences committed on
or after the day on which this section comes into force.

#### Palace of Westminster, Parliament Square etc

##### Obstruction of vehicular access to Parliament

76

76.1

Part 3 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 (Parliament
Square etc) is amended as follows.

76.2

In section 142A (other controlled areas in vicinity of the Palace of
Westminster)—

76.2.a

in subsection (1)—

76.2.a.i

in paragraph (a), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

76.2.a.i.ia

Canon Row,

76.2.a.i.ib

Parliament Street,

76.2.a.i.ic

Derby Gate,

76.2.a.i.id

Parliament Square,

, and

76.2.a.ii

after paragraph (a) insert—

76.2.a.ii.aa

so much of the highway in the postal district SW1 known as Victoria Embankment
as lies between the highway in that district known as Bridge Street and the
highway in that district known as Richmond Terrace,

, and

76.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

76.2.b.1A

A reference to a highway in subsection (1)(a) or (aa) includes any land
immediately adjoining that highway and to which the public have or are
permitted access.

76.3

In section 143 (prohibited activities in controlled area of Parliament Square
or in Palace of Westminster controlled area)—

76.3.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (e) insert—

76.3.a.f

obstructing, by the use of any item or otherwise, the passage of a vehicle of
any description into or out of an entrance into or exit from the Parliamentary
Estate, where that entrance or exit is within, or adjoins, the Palace of
Westminster controlled area.

,

76.3.b

in subsection (3)(b) for “relevant authority” substitute  “relevant person” ,

76.3.c

after subsection (4) insert—

76.3.c.4A

In subsection (2)(f) the reference to obstructing the passage of a vehicle
includes making the passage of a vehicle more difficult.

,

76.3.d

in subsection (5)—

76.3.d.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for ““relevant authority”” substitute
““relevant person”” ,

76.3.d.ii

omit “or” at the end of paragraph (b), and

76.3.d.iii

after paragraph (c) insert—

76.3.d.iii.d

a relevant member of the House of Lords staff, or

76.3.d.iii.e

a relevant member of the House of Commons staff

, and

76.3.e

after subsection (5) insert—

76.3.e.5A

In subsection (5)—

      “ relevant member of the House of Lords staff ” has the meaning given by
section 194(6) of the Employment Rights Act 1996;           “ relevant member
of the House of Commons staff ” has the meaning given by section 195(5) of
that Act.

76.4

Subsection  (2)  does not affect—

76.4.a

any direction given under section 143(1) of the Police Reform and Social
Responsibility Act 2011 before the day on which this section came into force,

76.4.b

any order made under section 146(1)(b) of that Act before that day, or

76.4.c

any authorisation given under section 147 of that Act before that day.

76.5

Any such direction, order or authorisation applies in relation to the Palace
of Westminster controlled area as defined by section 142A(1) of that Act as it
had effect immediately before that day.

##### Power to specify other areas as controlled areas

77

After section 149 of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011
insert—

######### Power to specify other areas as controlled areas

77.149A

77.149A.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations provide for any provision of
sections 143 to 148 and 149(3) to apply, with or without modifications, in
relation to an area specified in the regulations.

77.149A.2

An area may be specified in regulations under subsection (1) by description,
by reference to a map or plan or in any other way.

77.149A.3

Regulations under subsection (1) may be made only if—

77.149A.3.a

either House of Parliament is, or is proposed to be, located somewhere other
than the Palace of Westminster as a result of the Parliamentary building works
or for any other reason, and

77.149A.3.b

as a result of that relocation, or proposed relocation, the Secretary of State
considers that it is reasonably necessary for activities which are prohibited
in relation to the controlled area of Parliament Square or the Palace of
Westminster controlled area to be prohibited in relation to the area specified
in the regulations.

77.149A.4

In subsection (3)(a) “ the Parliamentary building works ” has the meaning
given by section 1(1) of the Parliamentary Buildings (Restoration and Renewal)
Act 2019.

77.149A.5

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision for any other
enactment, or any instrument made under an enactment, to have effect with
modifications in consequence of regulations under subsection (1).

#### Public nuisance

##### Intentionally or recklessly causing public nuisance

78

78.1

A person commits an offence if—

78.1.a

the person—

78.1.a.i

does an act, or

78.1.a.ii

omits to do an act that they are required to do by any enactment or rule of
law,

78.1.b

the person’s act or omission—

78.1.b.i

creates a risk of, or causes, serious harm to the public or a section of the
public, or

78.1.b.ii

obstructs the public or a section of the public in the exercise or enjoyment
of a right that may be exercised or enjoyed by the public at large, and

78.1.c

the person intends that their act or omission will have a consequence
mentioned in paragraph  (b)  or is reckless as to whether it will have such a
consequence.

78.2

In subsection  (1)(b)(i)  “ serious harm ” means—

78.2.a

death, personal injury or disease,

78.2.b

loss of, or damage to, property, or

78.2.c

serious distress, serious annoyance, serious inconvenience or serious loss of
amenity.

78.3

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that they had a reasonable excuse for the act or omission mentioned in
paragraph (a) of that subsection.

78.4

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable—

78.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding   the general
limit in a magistrates’ court , to a fine or to both;

78.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10
years, to a fine or to both.

78.5

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of paragraph
24(2) of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 (increase in magistrates’
court power to impose imprisonment) the reference in subsection  (4) (a)  to
the general limit in a magistrates’ court   is to be read as a reference to 6
months.

78.6

The common law offence of public nuisance is abolished.

78.7

Subsections  (1)  to  (6)  do not apply in relation to—

78.7.a

any act or omission which occurred before the coming into force of those
subsections, or

78.7.b

any act or omission which began before the coming into force of those
subsections and continues after their coming into force.

78.8

This section does not affect—

78.8.a

the liability of any person for an offence other than the common law offence
of public nuisance,

78.8.b

the civil liability of any person for the tort of public nuisance, or

78.8.c

the ability to take any action under any enactment against a person for any
act or omission within subsection (1).

78.9

In this section “ enactment ” includes an enactment comprised in subordinate
legislation within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978.

#### One-person protests

##### Imposing conditions on one-person protests

79

79.1

After section 14 of the Public Order Act 1986 insert—

########### Imposing conditions on one-person protests

79.1.14ZA

79.1.14ZA.1

Subsection  (2)  applies if the senior police officer, having regard to the
time or place at which and the circumstances in which any one-person protest
in England and Wales is being carried on or is intended to be carried on,
reasonably believes—

79.1.14ZA.1.a

that the noise generated by the person carrying on the protest may result in
serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on
in the vicinity of the protest, or

79.1.14ZA.1.b

that—

79.1.14ZA.1.b.i

the noise generated by the person carrying on the protest may have a relevant
impact on persons in the vicinity of the protest, and

79.1.14ZA.1.b.ii

that impact may be significant.

79.1.14ZA.2

The senior police officer may give directions imposing on the person
organising or carrying on the protest such conditions as appear to the officer
necessary to prevent such disruption or impact.

79.1.14ZA.3

Where the one-person protest is moving, or is intended to move, from place to
place—

79.1.14ZA.3.a

the senior police officer must also have regard under subsection  (1)  to its
route or proposed route, and

79.1.14ZA.3.b

the conditions which may be imposed under subsection  (2)  include conditions
as to the route of the protest or prohibiting the person carrying on the
protest from entering any public place specified in the direction while the
person is carrying it on.

79.1.14ZA.4

In this section “ one-person protest ” means a protest which, at any one time,
is carried on by one person in a public place.

79.1.14ZA.5

In this section “ the senior police officer ” means—

79.1.14ZA.5.a

in relation to a one-person protest being held or to a one-person protest
intended to be held in a case where a person is in a place with a view to
carrying on such a protest, the most senior in rank of the police officers
present at the scene, and

79.1.14ZA.5.b

in relation to a one-person protest intended to be held in a case where
paragraph (a) does not apply, the chief officer of police.

79.1.14ZA.6

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a), the cases in which the noise generated
by a person taking part in a one-person protest may result in serious
disruption to the activities of an organisation which are carried on in the
vicinity of the protest include, in particular, where it may result in persons
connected with the organisation not being reasonably able, for a prolonged
period of time, to carry on in that vicinity the activities or any one of
them.

79.1.14ZA.7

For the purposes of subsection  (1) (b)(i), the noise generated by a person
carrying on a one-person protest may have a relevant impact on persons in the
vicinity of the protest if—

79.1.14ZA.7.a

it may result in the intimidation or harassment of persons of reasonable
firmness with the characteristics of persons likely to be in the vicinity, or

79.1.14ZA.7.b

it may cause such persons to suffer alarm or distress.

79.1.14ZA.8

In considering for the purposes of subsection  (1) (b)(ii) whether the noise
generated by a person carrying on a one-person protest may have a significant
impact on persons in the vicinity of the protest, the senior police officer
must have regard to—

79.1.14ZA.8.a

the likely number of persons of the kind mentioned in paragraph (a) of
subsection  (7)  who may experience an impact of the kind mentioned in
paragraph (a) or (b) of that subsection,

79.1.14ZA.8.b

the likely duration of that impact on such persons, and

79.1.14ZA.8.c

the likely intensity of that impact on such persons.

79.1.14ZA.9

A direction given by a chief officer of police by virtue of subsection  (5)
(b) must be given in writing.

79.1.14ZA.10

A person (“ P ”) is guilty of an offence if—

79.1.14ZA.10.a

P organises or carries on a one-person protest,

79.1.14ZA.10.b

P fails to comply with a condition imposed under this section, and

79.1.14ZA.10.c

at the time P fails to comply with the condition, P knows or ought to know
that the condition has been imposed.

79.1.14ZA.11

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (10)
to prove that the failure arose from circumstances beyond the person’s
control.

79.1.14ZA.12

A person who incites another to commit an offence under subsection  (10)  is
guilty of an offence.

79.1.14ZA.13

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (10)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 4 on the standard scale.

79.1.14ZA.14

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (12)  is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale or both.

79.1.14ZA.15

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection  (14)  to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

79.1.14ZA.16

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend subsection (6) for the
purposes of making provision about the meaning for the purposes of this
section of serious disruption to the activities of an organisation which are
carried on in the vicinity of a one-person protest.

79.1.14ZA.17

Regulations under subsection  (16)  may, in particular, amend that subsection
for the purposes of—

79.1.14ZA.17.a

defining any aspect of that expression for the purposes of this section;

79.1.14ZA.17.b

giving examples of cases in which a one-person protest is or is not to be
treated as resulting in serious disruption to the activities of an
organisation which are carried on in the vicinity of the protest.

79.1.14ZA.18

Regulations under subsection  (16) —

79.1.14ZA.18.a

are to be made by statutory instrument;

79.1.14ZA.18.b

may make incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision, including provision which makes consequential amendments to
this Part.

79.1.14ZA.19

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (16)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

79.2

The Secretary of State must, before the end of the period of 2 years beginning
with the day on which this section comes into force—

79.2.a

prepare and publish a report on the operation of section 14ZA of the Public
Order Act 1986, and

79.2.b

lay the report before Parliament.

#### Wilful obstruction of highway

##### Wilful obstruction of highway

80

80.1

Section 137 of the Highways Act 1980 (penalty for wilful obstruction) is
amended as follows.

80.2

In subsection (1)—

80.2.a

after “liable to” insert  “imprisonment for a term not exceeding 51 weeks or”
;

80.2.b

for “not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale” substitute  “or both” .

80.3

After subsection (1) insert—

80.3.1A

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of section
281(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (alteration of penalties for certain
summary offences: England and Wales), the reference in subsection (1) to 51
weeks is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

80.3.1B

For the purposes of this section it does not matter whether free passage along
the highway in question has already been temporarily restricted or temporarily
prohibited (whether by a constable, a traffic authority or otherwise).

80.3.1C

In subsection  (1B) , “ traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in the
Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (see section 121A of that Act).

#### Repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 etc

##### Repeal of the Vagrancy Act 1824 etc

81

81.1

The Vagrancy Act 1824 is repealed.

81.2

Subsections  (3)  to  (7)  contain amendments and repeals in consequence of
subsection  (1) .

81.3

The following are repealed—

81.3.a

the Vagrancy Act 1935;

81.3.b

section 2(3)(c) of the House to House Collections Act 1939 (licences);

81.3.c

section 20 of the Criminal Justice Act 1967 (power of magistrates’ court to
commit on bail for sentence);

81.3.d

in the Criminal Justice Act 1982—

81.3.d.i

section 70 and the italic heading immediately before that section (vagrancy
offences), and

81.3.d.ii

paragraph 1 of Schedule 14 and the italic heading immediately before that
paragraph (minor and consequential amendments);

81.3.e

section 43(5) of the Mental Health Act 1983 (power of magistrates’ courts to
commit for restriction order);

81.3.f

section 26(5) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991 (alteration of certain
penalties);

81.3.g

in the Criminal Justice Act 2003—

81.3.g.i

paragraphs 1 and 2 of Schedule 25 and the italic heading immediately before
those paragraphs (summary offences no longer punishable with imprisonment),
and

81.3.g.ii

paragraphs 145 and 146 of Schedule 32 and the italic heading immediately
before those paragraphs (amendments relating to sentencing);

81.3.h

paragraph 18 of Schedule 8 to the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005
(powers of accredited persons).

81.4

In section 81 of the Public Health Acts Amendment Act 1907 (extending
definition of public place and street for certain purposes), omit the words
from “shall”, in the first place it occurs, to “public place, and”.

81.5

In section 48(2) of the Forestry Act 1967 (powers of entry and enforcement),
omit “or against the Vagrancy Act 1824”.

81.6

In the Police Reform Act 2002—

81.6.a

in Schedule 3C (powers of community support officers and community support
volunteers)—

81.6.a.i

omit paragraph 3(3)(b),

81.6.a.ii

omit paragraph 7(3),

81.6.a.iii

in paragraph 7(4), omit “or (3)”, and

81.6.a.iv

in paragraph 7(7)(a), omit “or (3)”, and

81.6.b

in Schedule 5 (powers exercisable by accredited persons), omit paragraph
2(3)(aa).

81.7

In the Sentencing Code—

81.7.a

in section 20(1) (committal in certain cases where offender committed in
respect of another offence)—

81.7.a.i

at the end of paragraph (e), insert  “or” , and

81.7.a.ii

omit paragraph (g) (and the “or” immediately before it), and

81.7.b

omit section 24(1)(f) (further powers to commit offender to the Crown Court to
be dealt with).

81.8

The amendments and repeals made by this section do not apply in relation to an
offence committed before this section comes into force.

#### Expedited public spaces protection orders

##### Expedited public spaces protection orders

82

82.1

The Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 is amended as follows.

82.2

After section 59 insert—

########### Power to make expedited public spaces protection orders

82.2.59A

82.2.59A.1

A local authority may make an expedited public spaces protection order (an
“expedited order”) in relation to a public place within the local authority’s
area if satisfied on reasonable grounds that three conditions are met.

82.2.59A.2

The first condition is that the public place is in the vicinity of—

82.2.59A.2.a

a school in the local authority’s area, or

82.2.59A.2.b

a site in the local authority’s area where, or from which—

82.2.59A.2.b.i

vaccines are provided to members of the public by, or pursuant to arrangements
with, an NHS body, or

82.2.59A.2.b.ii

test and trace services are provided.

The reference in paragraph (b)(i) to arrangements includes arrangements made
by the NHS body in the exercise of functions of another person by virtue of
any provision of the National Health Service Act 2006.

82.2.59A.3

The second condition is that activities carried on, or likely to be carried
on, in the public place by one or more individuals in the course of a protest
or demonstration have had, or are likely to have, the effect of—

82.2.59A.3.a

harassing or intimidating members of staff or volunteers at the school or
site,

82.2.59A.3.b

harassing or intimidating persons using the services of the school or site,

82.2.59A.3.c

impeding the provision of services by staff or volunteers at the school or
site, or

82.2.59A.3.d

impeding access by persons seeking to use the services of the school or site.

82.2.59A.4

The third condition is that the effect or likely effect mentioned in
subsection  (3) —

82.2.59A.4.a

is, or is likely to be, of a persistent or continuing nature,

82.2.59A.4.b

is, or is likely to be, such as to make the activities unreasonable, and

82.2.59A.4.c

justifies the restrictions imposed by the order.

82.2.59A.5

An expedited order is an order that identifies the public place referred to in
subsection  (1)  (“the restricted area”) and—

82.2.59A.5.a

prohibits specified things being done in the restricted area,

82.2.59A.5.b

requires specified things to be done by persons carrying on specified
activities in that area, or

82.2.59A.5.c

does both of those things.

82.2.59A.6

The only prohibitions or requirements that may be imposed are ones that are
reasonable to impose in order—

82.2.59A.6.a

to prevent the harassment, intimidation or impediment referred to in
subsection  (3)  from continuing, occurring or recurring, or

82.2.59A.6.b

to reduce that harassment, intimidation or impediment or to reduce the risk of
its continuance, occurrence or recurrence.

82.2.59A.7

A prohibition or requirement may be framed—

82.2.59A.7.a

so as to apply to all persons, or only to persons in specified categories, or
to all persons except those in specified categories;

82.2.59A.7.b

so as to apply at all times, or only at specified times, or at all times
except those specified;

82.2.59A.7.c

so as to apply in all circumstances, or only in specified circumstances, or in
all circumstances except those specified.

82.2.59A.8

An expedited order must—

82.2.59A.8.a

identify the activities referred to in subsection (3);

82.2.59A.8.b

explain the effect of section 63 (where it applies) and section 67;

82.2.59A.8.c

specify the period for which the order has effect.

82.2.59A.9

An expedited order may not be made in relation to a public place if that place
(or any part of it) is or has been the subject of an expedited order (“ the
earlier order ”), unless the period specified in subsection  (11)  has
expired.

82.2.59A.10

In subsection  (9)  the second reference to “an expedited order” is to be read
as including a reference to a public spaces protection order (made after the
day on which this section comes into force) which neither prohibited nor
required anything that could not have been prohibited or required by an
expedited order.

82.2.59A.11

The period specified in this subsection is the period of a year beginning with
the day on which the earlier order ceased to have effect.

82.2.59A.12

An expedited order must be published in accordance with regulations made by
the Secretary of State.

82.2.59A.13

For the purposes of subsection  (2) , a public place that is coextensive with,
includes, or is wholly or partly within, a school or site is regarded as being
“in the vicinity of” that school or site.

82.2.59A.14

In this section references to a “school” are to be read as including a 16 to
19 Academy.

82.2.59A.15

In this section “ test and trace services ” means—

82.2.59A.15.a

in relation to England, services of the programme known as NHS Test and Trace;

82.2.59A.15.b

in relation to Wales, services of the programme known as Test, Trace, Protect.

82.3

After section 60 insert—

########### Duration of expedited orders

82.3.60A

82.3.60A.1

An expedited order may not have effect for a period of more than 6 months.

82.3.60A.2

Subject to subsection  (1) , the local authority that made an expedited order
may, before the time when the order is due to expire, extend the period for
which the order has effect if satisfied on reasonable grounds that doing so is
necessary to prevent—

82.3.60A.2.a

occurrence or recurrence after that time of the activities identified in the
order, or

82.3.60A.2.b

an increase in the frequency or seriousness of those activities after that
time.

82.3.60A.3

Where a local authority has made an expedited order, the authority may, at any
time before the order is due to expire, reduce the period for which the order
is to have effect if satisfied on reasonable grounds that the reduced period
will be sufficient having regard to the degree of risk of an occurrence,
recurrence or increase such as is mentioned in subsection  (2)(a)  or (b).

82.3.60A.4

An extension or reduction under this section of the period for which an order
has effect must be published in accordance with regulations made by the
Secretary of State.

82.3.60A.5

An expedited order may be extended or reduced under this section more than
once.

82.4

After section 72 insert—

########### Expedited orders: Convention rights and consents

82.4.72A

82.4.72A.1

A local authority, in deciding—

82.4.72A.1.a

whether to make an expedited order (under section 59A) and if so what it
should include,

82.4.72A.1.b

whether to extend or reduce the period for which an expedited order has effect
(under section 60A) and if so by how much,

82.4.72A.1.c

whether to vary an expedited order (under section 61) and if so how, or

82.4.72A.1.d

whether to discharge an expedited order (under section 61),

must have particular regard to the rights of freedom of expression and freedom
of assembly set out in articles 10 and 11 of the Convention.

82.4.72A.2

In subsection (1) “ Convention ” has the meaning given by section 21(1) of the
Human Rights Act 1998.

82.4.72A.3

A local authority must obtain the necessary consents before—

82.4.72A.3.a

making an expedited order,

82.4.72A.3.b

extending or reducing the period for which an expedited order has effect, or

82.4.72A.3.c

varying or discharging an expedited order.

82.4.72A.4

If the order referred to in subsection (3) was made, or is proposed to be
made, in reliance on section 59A (2)(a) , “ the necessary consents ” means the
consent of—

82.4.72A.4.a

the chief officer of police for the police area that includes the restricted
area, and

82.4.72A.4.b

a person authorised (whether in specific or general terms) by the appropriate
authority for the school or 16 to 19 Academy.

82.4.72A.5

If the order referred to in subsection (3) was made, or is proposed to be
made, in reliance on section 59A (2)(b) , “ the necessary consents ” means the
consent of—

82.4.72A.5.a

the chief officer of police for the police area that includes the restricted
area, and

82.4.72A.5.b

a person authorised by the appropriate NHS authority.

82.4.72A.6

In this section—

“ appropriate authority ” means— in relation to a school maintained by a local
authority, the governing body; in relation to any other school or a 16 to 19
Academy, the proprietor; “ appropriate NHS authority ” means— if the order was
made, or is proposed to be made, in reliance on sub-paragraph (i) of section
59A (2)(b) , the NHS body mentioned in that sub-paragraph; if the order was
made, or is proposed to be made, in reliance on sub-paragraph (ii) of section
59A (2)(b)  and the site is in England, the UK Health Security Agency; if the
order was made, or is proposed to be made, in reliance on that sub-paragraph
and the site is in Wales, the Local Health Board for the area in which the
site is located.

82.4.72A.7

In this section “ proprietor ”, in relation to a school or a 16 to 19 Academy,
has the meaning given in section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996.

########### Consultation and notifications after making expedited order

82.4.72B

82.4.72B.1

A local authority must carry out the necessary consultation as soon as
reasonably practicable after making an expedited order.

82.4.72B.2

In subsection (1) “ necessary consultation ” means consulting with the
following about the terms and effects of the order—

82.4.72B.2.a

the chief officer of police, and the local policing body, for the police area
that includes the restricted area;

82.4.72B.2.b

whatever community representatives the local authority thinks it appropriate
to consult;

82.4.72B.2.c

the owner or occupier of land within the restricted area.

82.4.72B.3

A local authority must carry out the necessary notification (if any) as soon
as reasonably practicable after—

82.4.72B.3.a

making an expedited order,

82.4.72B.3.b

extending or reducing the period for which an expedited order has effect, or

82.4.72B.3.c

varying or discharging an expedited order.

82.4.72B.4

In subsection  (3)  “ necessary notification ” means notifying the following
of the extension, reduction, variation or discharge—

82.4.72B.4.a

the parish council or community council (if any) for the area that includes
the restricted area;

82.4.72B.4.b

in the case of an expedited order made by a district council in England, the
county council (if any) for the area that includes the restricted area;

82.4.72B.4.c

the owner or occupier of land within the restricted area.

82.4.72B.5

The requirement to notify the owner or occupier of land within the restricted
area—

82.4.72B.5.a

does not apply to land that is owned or occupied by the local authority;

82.4.72B.5.b

applies only if, and to the extent that, it is reasonably practicable to
notify the owner or occupier of the land.

82.5

Schedule 7 contains amendments relating to subsections  (1)  to  (4) .

### Unauthorised encampments

#### Offence relating to residing on land without consent in or with a vehicle

83

83.1

At the beginning of Part 5 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994,
before the italic heading before section 61, insert—

########## Residing on land without consent in or with a vehicle

########### Offence relating to residing on land without consent in or with a vehicle

83.1.60C

83.1.60C.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

83.1.60C.1.a

a person aged 18 or over (“ P ”) is residing, or intending to reside, on land
without the consent of the occupier of the land,

83.1.60C.1.b

P has, or intends to have, at least one vehicle with them on the land,

83.1.60C.1.c

one or more of the conditions mentioned in subsection  (4)  is satisfied, and

83.1.60C.1.d

the occupier, a representative of the occupier or a constable requests P to do
either or both of the following—

83.1.60C.1.d.i

leave the land;

83.1.60C.1.d.ii

remove from the land property that is in P’s possession or under P’s control.

83.1.60C.2

P commits an offence if—

83.1.60C.2.a

P fails to comply with the request as soon as reasonably practicable, or

83.1.60C.2.b

P—

83.1.60C.2.b.i

enters (or having left, re-enters) the land within the prohibited period with
the intention of residing there without the consent of the occupier of the
land, and

83.1.60C.2.b.ii

has, or intends to have, at least one vehicle with them on the land.

83.1.60C.3

The prohibited period is the period of 12 months beginning with the day on
which the request was made.

83.1.60C.4

The conditions are—

83.1.60C.4.a

in a case where P is residing on the land, significant damage or significant
disruption has been caused or is likely to be caused as a result of P’s
residence;

83.1.60C.4.b

in a case where P is not yet residing on the land, it is likely that
significant damage or significant disruption would be caused as a result of
P’s residence if P were to reside on the land;

83.1.60C.c

that significant damage or significant disruption has been caused or is likely
to be caused as a result of conduct carried on, or likely to be carried on, by
P while P is on the land;

83.1.60C.d

that significant distress has been caused or is likely to be caused as a
result of offensive conduct carried on, or likely to be carried on, by P while
P is on the land.

83.1.60C.5

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable on summary
conviction to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months or a fine not
exceeding level 4 on the standard scale, or both.

83.1.60C.6

In proceedings for an offence under this section it is a defence for the
accused to show that the accused had a reasonable excuse for—

83.1.60C.6.a

failing to comply as soon as reasonably practicable with the request mentioned
in subsection  (1)(d) , or

83.1.60C.6.b

after receiving such a request, entering (or re-entering) the land with the
intention of residing there without the consent of the occupier of the land.

83.1.60C.7

In its application to common land, this section has effect—

83.1.60C.7.a

in a case where the common land is land to which the public has access and the
occupier cannot be identified, as if references to the occupier were
references to the local authority in relation to the common land;

83.1.60C.7.b

in a case where P’s residence or intended residence without the consent of the
occupier is, or would be, an infringement of the commoners’ rights and—

83.1.60C.7.b.i

the occupier is aware of P’s residence or intended residence and had an
opportunity to consent to it, or

83.1.60C.7.b.ii

if sub-paragraph  (i)  does not apply, any one or more of the commoners took
reasonable steps to try to inform the occupier of P’s residence or intended
residence and provide an opportunity to consent to it,

as if in subsection  (1)(d)  after “a constable” there were inserted  “or the
commoners or any of them or their representative” .

83.1.60C.8

In this section--

“ common land ” and “ commoner ” have the same meaning as in section 61; “
damage ” includes— damage to the land; damage to any property on the land not
belonging to P; damage to the environment (including excessive noise, smells,
litter or deposits of waste); “ disruption ” includes interference with— a
person’s ability to access any services or facilities located on the land or
otherwise make lawful use of the land, or a supply of water, energy or fuel; “
land ” does not include buildings other than— agricultural buildings within
the meaning of paragraphs 3 to 8 of Schedule 5 to the Local Government Finance
Act 1988, or scheduled monuments within the meaning of the Ancient Monuments
and Archaeological Areas Act 1979; “ the local authority ”, in relation to
common land, has the same meaning as in section 61; “ occupier ” means the
person entitled to possession of the land by virtue of an estate or interest
held by the person; “ offensive conduct ” means— the use of threatening,
abusive or insulting words or behaviour, or disorderly behaviour, or the
display of any writing, sign, or other visible representation that is
threatening, abusive or insulting; “ vehicle ” includes— any vehicle, whether
or not it is in a fit state for use on roads, and includes any chassis or
body, with or without wheels, appearing to have formed part of such a vehicle,
and any load carried by, and anything attached to, such a vehicle, and a
caravan as defined in section 29(1) of the Caravan Sites and Control of
Development Act 1960.

83.1.60C.9

For the purposes of this section a person is to be considered as residing or
having the intention to reside in a place even if that residence or intended
residence is temporary, and a person may be regarded as residing or having an
intention to reside in a place notwithstanding that the person has a home
elsewhere.

########### Offence under section 60C: seizure of property etc

83.1.60D

83.1.60D.1

If a constable reasonably suspects that an offence has been committed under
section 60C, the constable may seize and remove any relevant property that
appears to the constable—

83.1.60D.1.a

to belong to the person who the constable suspects has committed the offence
(“ P ”);

83.1.60D.1.b

to be in P’s possession; or

83.1.60D.1.c

to be under P’s control.

83.1.60D.2

“ Relevant property ” means—

83.1.60D.2.a

a vehicle (wherever located) which, for the purposes of section 60C (1)(b)
(in the case of an offence under section 60C (2)(a) ) or for the purposes of
section 60C (2)(b)(ii)  (in the case of an offence under section 60C (2)(b) ),
the constable suspects P had or intended to have with them, or

83.1.60D.2.b

any other property that is on the relevant land.

83.1.60D.3

The “relevant land” is the land in respect of which a request under section
60C (1)(d)  is made.

83.1.60D.4

The relevant chief officer of police may retain any property that has been
seized under subsection  (1)  until the end of the period of three months
beginning with the day of the seizure (“ the relevant period ”).

83.1.60D.5

But the relevant chief officer of police ceases to be entitled to retain the
property if before the end of the relevant period a custody officer gives
written notice to P that P is not to be prosecuted for the offence under
section 60C in relation to which the property was seized.

(And see subsection  (10) ).

83.1.60D.6

Subsection  (7)  applies where before the end of the relevant period
proceedings for an offence under section 60C are commenced against P.

83.1.60D.7

Where this subsection applies the relevant chief officer of police may retain
the property seized until the conclusion of proceedings relating to the
offence (including any appeal) (but see subsection  (10) ).

83.1.60D.8

Where a chief officer of police ceases to be entitled to retain property under
this section the chief officer must, subject to any order for forfeiture under
section 60E, return it to the person whom the chief officer believes to be its
owner.

83.1.60D.9

If a chief officer of police cannot after reasonable inquiry identify a person
for the purposes of subsection  (8) —

83.1.60D.9.a

the chief officer must apply to a magistrates’ court for directions, and

83.1.60D.9.b

the court must make an order about the treatment of the property.

83.1.60D.10

If at any time a person other than P satisfies a chief officer of police that
property that is retained by the chief officer under this section—

83.1.60D.10.a

belongs to the person at that time, and

83.1.60D.10.b

belonged to them at the time of the suspected offence under section 60C,

the chief officer must return the property to the person.

83.1.60D.11

Subsection  (10)  does not apply in relation to a vehicle belonging to a
person other than P if the chief officer of police reasonably believes that
the vehicle was, with the consent of the other person, in P’s possession or
under P’s control at the time of the suspected offence under section 60C.

83.1.60D.12

For the purposes of subsection  (6) , proceedings are commenced when—

83.1.60D.12.a

a written charge is issued under section 29(1) of the Criminal Justice Act
2003,

83.1.60D.12.b

a person is charged under Part 4 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984,
or

83.1.60D.12.c

an information is laid under section 1 of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980.

83.1.60D.13

For the purposes of this section—

83.1.60D.13.a

the relevant chief officer of police is the chief officer of the police force
for the area in which the property was seized, and

83.1.60D.13.b

“ vehicle ” has the same meaning as in section 60C.

########### Offence under section 60C: forfeiture

83.1.60E

83.1.60E.1

A court that convicts a person of an offence under section 60C may order any
property to which subsection  (2)  applies to be forfeited and dealt with in a
manner specified in the order.

83.1.60E.2

This subsection applies to any property that—

83.1.60E.2.a

was seized under section 60D(1), and

83.1.60E.2.b

is retained by a chief officer of police under that section.

83.1.60E.3

Before making an order for the forfeiture of property the court must—

83.1.60E.3.a

permit anyone who claims to be its owner or to have an interest in it to make
representations, and

83.1.60E.3.b

consider its value and the likely consequences of forfeiture.

83.2

In the heading to Part 5 of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994,
after “Order:” insert  “Unauthorised encampments and ” .

#### Amendments to existing powers

84

84.1

The Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 is amended as follows.

84.2

Section 61 (power to remove trespassers on land) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (3)  to  (7) .

84.3

In subsection (1)—

84.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “persons” insert

—

84.3.a.i

in the case of persons trespassing on land in England and Wales, has caused
damage, disruption or distress (see subsection (10));

84.3.a.ii

in the case of persons trespassing on land in Scotland,

, and

84.3.b

at the beginning of paragraph (b) insert  “in either case,” .

84.4

In subsection (4)(b) for “period of three months beginning with the day on
which the direction was given” substitute  “prohibited period” .

84.5

After subsection (4) insert—

84.5.4ZA

The prohibited period is—

84.5.4ZA.a

in the case of a person trespassing on land in England and Wales, the period
of twelve months beginning with the day on which the direction was given;

84.5.4ZA.b

in the case of a person trespassing on land in Scotland, the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the direction was given.

84.6

In subsection (9), in the definition of “land”, in paragraph (b)—

84.6.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “land” insert  “in Scotland” ,
and

84.6.b

omit sub-paragraph (i) (together with the final “or”).

84.7

After subsection (9) insert—

84.7.10

For the purposes of subsection (1)(a)(i)—

“ damage ” includes— damage to the land; damage to any property on the land
not belonging to the persons trespassing; damage to the environment (including
excessive noise, smells, litter or deposits of waste); “ disruption ” includes
an interference with— a person’s ability to access any services or facilities
located on the land or otherwise make lawful use of the land, or a supply of
water, energy or fuel; “ distress ” means distress caused by— the use of
threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour, or disorderly behaviour,
or the display of any writing, sign, or other visible representation that is
threatening, abusive or insulting.

84.8

In section 62 (powers to seize property related to offence under section 61)—

84.8.a

in subsection (1)(b) for “period of three months beginning with the day on
which the direction was given” substitute  “prohibited period” , and

84.8.b

after subsection (1) insert—

84.8.b.1A

The prohibited period is—

84.8.b.1A.a

in the case of a person trespassing on land in England and Wales, the period
of twelve months beginning with the day on which the direction was given;

84.8.b.1A.a

in the case of a person trespassing on land in Scotland, the period of three
months beginning with the day on which the direction was given.

84.9

In section 62B(2) (failure to comply with direction under section 62A:
offences) for “3” substitute  “twelve” .

84.10

In section 62C(2) (failure to comply with direction under section 62A:
seizure) for “3” substitute  “twelve” .

84.11

In section 68(5) (offence of aggravated trespass), for paragraph (a)
substitute—

84.11.a

a highway unless it is a footpath, bridleway or byway open to all traffic
within the meaning of Part 3 of the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981, is a
restricted byway within the meaning of Part 2 of the Countryside and Rights of
Way Act 2000 or is a cycle track under the Highways Act 1980 or the Cycle
Tracks Act 1984;

84.11.aa

a road within the meaning of the Roads (Scotland) Act 1984 unless it falls
within the definitions in section 151(2)(a)(ii) or (b) (footpaths and cycle
tracks) of that Act or is a bridleway within the meaning of section 47 of the
Countryside (Scotland) Act 1967; or

.

84.12

The amendments made by subsections  (4) ,  (5) ,  (8) ,  (9)  and  (10)  do
not apply in relation to a direction given under section 61 or 62A of the
Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 before the coming into force of
this section.

#### Guidance on exercise of police powers in respect of trespassers on land etc

85

After section 62E of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 insert—

######## Guidance

85.62F

85.62F.1

The Secretary of State must issue guidance relating to the exercise of—

85.62F.1.a

the functions of police officers in England and Wales, and

85.62F.1.b

the functions of constables in England and Wales,

under the provisions mentioned in subsection  (2) .

85.62F.2

Those provisions are—

85.62F.2.a

sections 60C to 62E, and

85.62F.2.b

regulations under section 67 relating to vehicles seized under section 62(1)
or section 62C(3).

85.62F.3

Police officers in England and Wales and constables in England and Wales must
have regard to the guidance when exercising any of those functions conferred
on them.

85.62F.4

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise the guidance.

85.62F.5

The Secretary of State must arrange for the guidance and any revised guidance
issued under this section to be published in such manner as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.

85.62F.6

The Secretary of State must lay before Parliament a copy of any guidance or
revised guidance published under subsection (5).

### Road traffic

#### Road traffic offences

##### Causing death by dangerous driving or careless driving when under the influence of drink or drugs: increased penalties

86

86.1

Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (prosecution and
punishment of offences: offences under the Traffic Acts) is amended as
follows.

86.2

In the entry relating to section 1 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing death
by dangerous driving), in column (4) (punishment), for “14 years” substitute
“Imprisonment for life” .

86.3

In the entry relating to section 3A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing
death by careless driving when under influence of drink or drugs), in column
(4) (punishment), for “14 years” substitute  “Imprisonment for life” .

86.4

Section 34 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (disqualification for
certain offences) is amended as follows.

86.5

In subsection (3), in the words after paragraph (d)—

86.5.a

after “the offence” insert  “(“the new offence”)” ;

86.5.b

for “three years” substitute  “the period specified in subsection (3A)” .

86.6

After subsection (3) insert—

86.6.3A

The period is—

86.6.3A.a

six years, where—

86.6.3A.a.i

an offence of which the person was convicted within the ten years mentioned in
subsection (3) falls within paragraph (aa) of that subsection, and

86.6.3A.a.ii

the new offence also falls within that paragraph;

86.6.3A.b

in any other case (but subject to subsection (4ZA)), three years.

86.7

In subsection (4)—

86.7.a

in the words before paragraph (a), after “(3) above” insert  “and subsection
(4ZA) below” ;

86.7.b

in paragraph (a)—

86.7.b.i

omit sub-paragraph (ii) (and the “or” after it);

86.7.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (iia), for “that Act” substitute  “the Road Traffic Act 1988”
;

86.7.b.iii

omit sub-paragraph (iii) (and the “or” before it, but not the “and” after it).

86.8

After subsection (4) insert—

86.8.4ZA

Subsection (1) shall apply as if the reference to twelve months were a
reference to five years in relation to a person convicted of—

86.8.4ZA.a

an offence under section 1 of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing death by
dangerous driving), or

86.8.4ZA.b

an offence under section 3A of that Act (causing death by careless driving
when under the influence of drink or drugs),

but this is subject to subsection (3) in cases within paragraph (a) of
subsection (3A).

86.9

A provision of this section does not apply in relation to offences committed
before the provision comes into force.

##### Causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving

87

87.1

In the Road Traffic Act 1988, after section 2B (causing death by careless, or
inconsiderate, driving) insert—

########### Causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving

87.1.2C

87.1.2C.1

A person who causes serious injury to another person by driving a mechanically
propelled vehicle on a road or other public place without due care and
attention, or without reasonable consideration for other persons using the
road or place, is guilty of an offence.

87.1.2C.2

In this section “ serious injury ” means—

87.1.2C.2.a

in England and Wales, physical harm which amounts to grievous bodily harm for
the purposes of the Offences against the Person Act 1861, and

87.1.2C.2.b

in Scotland, severe physical injury.

87.2

In section 3ZA of that Act (meaning of careless, or inconsiderate, driving),
in subsection (1), after “sections 2B” insert  “, 2C” .

87.3

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (prosecution
and punishment of offences: offences under the Traffic Acts), after the entry
relating to section 2B of the Road Traffic Act 1988 insert—

RTA section 2C Causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving
(a) Summarily (a) On conviction in England and Wales: 12 months or a fine or
both Obligatory Obligatory 3-11 On conviction in Scotland: 12 months or the
statutory maximum or both (b) On indictment (b) 2 years or a fine or both

87.4

In the entries in Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988
relating to an offence under section 2C of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing
serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving), in relation to an
offence committed before paragraph 24(2) of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act
2020 comes into force, the reference in column (4) (punishment) to 12 months
on summary conviction in England and Wales is to be read as a reference to 6
months.

##### Road traffic offences: minor and consequential amendments

88

Schedule 8 contains amendments relating to sections 86 and 87.

#### Courses offered as an alternative to prosecution

##### Courses offered as alternative to prosecution: fees etc

89

89.1

After section 90F of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 insert—

########### Courses offered as alternative to prosecution

############ Power to charge fees: England and Wales

89.1.90G

89.1.90G.1

A policing body may charge a fee for enrolment on an approved course offered
as an alternative to prosecution in England and Wales for a specified fixed
penalty offence.

89.1.90G.2

A fee may be set at a level that exceeds the cost of an approved course and
related administrative expenses, but any excess must be used for the purpose
of promoting road safety.

89.1.90G.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations make further provision about—

89.1.90G.3.a

how fees, or components of fees, are to be calculated;

89.1.90G.3.b

the level of fees or components of fees;

89.1.90G.3.c

the use of fee income.

89.1.90G.4

The regulations may include provision as to the amount, or maximum amount, of
a fee or component of a fee.

89.1.90G.5

In this section—

“ approved course ” means a course approved (whether before or after this
section comes into force) by a body specified in regulations under subsection
(6) ; “ fixed penalty offence ” means an offence that is a fixed penalty
offence for the purposes of Part 3 (see section 51); “ policing body ” means—
a local policing body, or the British Transport Police Authority; “ promoting
road safety ” includes the prevention, detection or enforcement of offences
relating to vehicles; “ prosecution ”, in relation to an offence, includes any
alternative way of being dealt with for the offence (other than attending an
approved course); “ specified fixed penalty offence ” means an offence
specified under subsection  (6) .

89.1.90G.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations—

89.1.90G.6.a

specify fixed penalty offences for the purposes of this section;

89.1.90G.6.b

specify a body to approve courses for the purposes of this section.

89.1.90G.7

Nothing in this section limits any power to charge fees apart from this
section.

############ Power to prevent courses being offered for repeat offences: England and Wales

89.1.90H

89.1.90H.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations prohibit a chief officer from
offering an approved course to a person as an alternative to prosecution in
England and Wales for a specified fixed penalty offence where—

89.1.90H.1.a

there is a course fee, and

89.1.90H.1.b

the person has, within a period specified in the regulations, satisfactorily
completed a similar approved course in respect of an earlier specified fixed
penalty offence.

89.1.90H.2

The regulations must include provision for the purpose of identifying what
counts as a “similar” course; and that provision may, in particular, confer
power on a person to determine what courses count as similar.

89.1.90H.3

In this section “ chief officer ” means—

89.1.90H.3.a

a chief officer of police of a police force in England and Wales, or

89.1.90H.3.b

the Chief Constable of the British Transport Police Force.

89.1.90H.4

In this section the following terms have the meaning given by section  90G (5)
—

“approved course”; “prosecution”; “specified fixed penalty offence”.

############ Further provision about regulations under this Part

89.1.90I

89.1.90I.1

A power to make regulations under this Part is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

89.1.90I.2

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under this Part is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either
House of Parliament.

89.1.90I.3

Regulations under this Part may include—

89.1.90I.3.a

incidental or supplementary provision;

89.1.90I.3.b

different provision for different purposes.

89.2

After Article 91F of the Road Traffic Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1996
( S.I. 1996/1320 (N.I. 10) ) insert—

########### Courses offered as alternative to prosecution

############ Power to charge fees

89.2.91G

89.2.91G.1

The Chief Constable may charge a fee for enrolment on an approved course
offered as an alternative to prosecution for a specified fixed penalty
offence.

89.2.91G.2

A fee may be set at a level that exceeds the cost of an approved course and
related administrative expenses, but any excess must be used for the purpose
of promoting road safety.

89.2.91G.3

The power in paragraph  (1)  may be exercised only with the approval in
writing of the Policing Board.

Such approval may be given—

89.2.91G.3.a

generally or specifically, and

89.2.91G.3.b

subject to conditions.

89.2.91G.4

The Department of Justice may by regulations make further provision about—

89.2.91G.4.a

how fees, or components of fees, are to be calculated;

89.2.91G.4.b

the level of fees or components of fees;

89.2.91G.4.c

the use of fee income.

89.2.91G.5

The regulations may include provision as to the amount, or maximum amount, of
a fee or component of a fee.

89.2.91G.6

In this Article—

“ approved course ” means a course approved (whether before or after this
Article comes into operation) by a body specified in regulations under
paragraph  (7) ; “ fixed penalty offence ” means an offence that is a fixed
penalty offence for the purposes of Part 4 (see Article 57); “ promoting road
safety ” includes the prevention, detection or enforcement of offences
relating to vehicles; “ prosecution ”, in relation to an offence, includes any
alternative way of being dealt with for the offence (other than attending an
approved course); “ specified fixed penalty offence ” means an offence
specified under paragraph  (7) .

89.2.91G.7

The Department of Justice may by regulations—

89.2.91G.7.a

specify fixed penalty offences for the purposes of this Article;

89.2.91G.7.b

specify a body to approve courses for the purposes of this Article.

89.2.91G.8

Nothing in this Article limits any power to charge fees apart from this
Article.

############ Power to prevent courses being offered for repeat offences

89.2.91H

89.2.91H.1

The Department of Justice may by regulations prohibit the Chief Constable from
offering an approved course to a person as an alternative to prosecution for a
specified fixed penalty offence where—

89.2.91H.1.a

there is a course fee, and

89.2.91H.1.b

the person has, within a period specified in the regulations, satisfactorily
completed a similar approved course in respect of an earlier specified fixed
penalty offence.

89.2.91H.2

The regulations must include provision for the purpose of identifying what
counts as a “similar” course; and that provision may, in particular, confer
power on a person to determine what courses count as similar.

89.2.91H.3

In this Article the following terms have the meaning given by Article  91G (6)
—

“approved course”; “prosecution”; “specified fixed penalty offence”.

############ Further provision about regulations under this Part

89.2.91I

89.2.91I.1

Regulations under this Part are subject to negative resolution.

89.2.91I.2

Regulations under Article 91G (4)  may be made only with the consent of the
Department of Finance.

89.2.91I.3

Regulations under this Part may include such incidental or supplementary
provision as appears to the Department of Justice to be necessary or
expedient.

89.3

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend Part 3B of the Road Traffic
Offenders Act 1988 for the purpose of making provision corresponding or
similar to section  90G  or  90H  of that Act in relation to courses offered
as an alternative to prosecution in Scotland for a fixed penalty offence.

89.4

In subsection  (3)  “ fixed penalty offence ” means an offence that is a fixed
penalty offence for the purposes of Part 3 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act
1988 (see section 51 of that Act).

89.5

The Secretary of State must consult the Lord Advocate before making
regulations under subsection  (3) .

89.6

The power to make regulations under subsection  (3)  is exercisable by
statutory instrument.

89.7

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (3)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

#### Removal etc of abandoned vehicles

##### Charges for removal, storage and disposal of vehicles

90

90.1

Section 102 of the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (charges for removal,
storage and disposal of vehicles), as it forms part of the law of England and
Wales, is amended as follows.

90.2

In subsection (2), for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “In any such
case (but subject in the case of a local authority to subsection (2A))—” .

90.3

For subsection (2A) substitute—

90.3.2A

In the case of a vehicle removed, on any ground mentioned in subsection (1),
from an area that is a civil enforcement area for parking contraventions—

90.3.2A.a

subsection (2) does not apply to the recovery of charges by a local authority,
but

90.3.2A.b

the enforcement authority is entitled to recover from any person responsible
such charges in respect of the removal, storage and disposal of the vehicle as
they may require in accordance with Schedule 9 to the Traffic Management Act
2004.

#### Surrender of driving licences

##### Production of licence to the court

91

91.1

The Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 is amended as follows.

91.2

In section 7 (trial: duty of accused to provide licence to the court)—

91.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

91.2.a.1

Where—

91.2.a.1.a

a person who is the holder of a licence is prosecuted for an offence involving
obligatory or discretionary disqualification,

91.2.a.1.b

there is a hearing, and

91.2.a.1.c

the person attends the hearing,

the person must bring the licence to the hearing.

;

91.2.b

omit subsections (1A), (1B), (1C) and (2).

91.3

In section 27 (sentence: production of licence to the court)—

91.3.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

91.3.a.1

Where—

91.3.a.1.a

a person who is the holder of a licence is convicted of an offence involving
obligatory or discretionary disqualification, and

91.3.a.1.b

a court proposes to make, or makes, an order disqualifying the person,

the court may require the licence to be produced to it.

;

91.3.b

in subsection (3)(b), at the beginning insert  “unless the licence is already
treated as being revoked under section 37(1),” .

##### Surrender of licence to Secretary of State where disqualified

92

92.1

After section 37 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 insert—

########### Surrender of licence to Secretary of State where disqualified

92.1.37A

92.1.37A.1

This section applies where—

92.1.37A.1.a

a person who is the holder of a licence is disqualified by an order of a
court, and

92.1.37A.1.b

the Secretary of State is not already in receipt of the licence.

92.1.37A.2

The Secretary of State may serve on the person a notice in writing requiring
the person to surrender the licence to the Secretary of State at such address
as the Secretary of State may determine, before the end of the period of 28
days beginning with the date on which the notice is served.

92.1.37A.3

A notice under subsection  (2)  may be served on a person—

92.1.37A.3.a

by delivering it to the person,

92.1.37A.3.b

by leaving it at the person’s proper address, or

92.1.37A.3.c

by sending it to the person by post.

92.1.37A.4

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a notice under
subsection  (2)  is guilty of an offence.

92.1.37A.5

For the purposes of—

92.1.37A.5.a

subsection  (3) , and

92.1.37A.5.b

section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978 in its application to subsection (3),

a person’s “proper address” is the person’s latest address as known to the
Secretary of State.

92.2

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (prosecution
and punishment of offences), before the entry relating to section 62 of that
Act, insert—

Section  37A (4)  of this Act Failure to surrender licence to Secretary of
State Summarily Level 3 on the standard scale

##### Removal of requirement to surrender licence where fixed penalty notice

93

93.1

The Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 is amended as follows.

93.2

In section 52 (fixed penalty notices), after subsection (2) insert—

93.2.2A

A fixed penalty notice must give details of the identification information (as
defined in section 69(3D)) that may be required under section 69 where the
notice relates to an offence involving obligatory endorsement.

93.3

In section 54 (notices on-the-spot etc)—

93.3.a

in subsection (3)—

93.3.a.i

omit “, and” at the end of paragraph (a);

93.3.a.ii

omit paragraph (b);

93.3.b

omit subsections (4), (5), (5A), (5B), (6), (7) and (9).

93.4

In section 69 (payment of penalties)—

93.4.a

in subsection (2), after “method” insert  “and subject to subsection (2A)” ;

93.4.b

after that subsection, insert—

93.4.b.2A

Where a person has been given a fixed penalty notice under section 54 in
respect of an offence involving obligatory endorsement, payment of the penalty
may be made as mentioned in subsection (2) only if the letter also contains
identification information.

;

93.4.c

after subsection (3), insert—

93.4.c.3A

Subsection  (3B)  applies where—

93.4.c.3A.a

a person has been given a fixed penalty notice under section 54 in respect of
an offence involving obligatory endorsement, and

93.4.c.3A.b

a method of payment other than that mentioned in subsection (2) is used.

93.4.c.3B

The penalty is treated as having been paid to the fixed penalty clerk or the
Secretary of State in accordance with this Part only if the person—

93.4.c.3B.a

fulfils the identification requirements, and

93.4.c.3B.b

makes payment of the penalty to the clerk or the Secretary of State.

93.4.c.3C

A person fulfils the identification requirements if—

93.4.c.3C.a

the person provides the clerk or the Secretary of State with identification
information, or

93.4.c.3C.b

the clerk or the Secretary of State is otherwise satisfied of the person’s
identity.

93.4.c.3D

In this section “ identification information ” means—

93.4.c.3D.a

the person’s name and date of birth, and

93.4.c.3D.b

if the person is the holder of a licence, the licence number.

##### Removal of requirement to deliver up licence where conditional offer

94

94.1

The Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 is amended as follows.

94.2

In section 75 (issue of conditional offer)—

94.2.a

in subsection (7), after paragraph (b) (but before the “and” immediately after
it) insert—

94.2.a.ba

give details of the identification information that may be required where the
conditional offer relates to an offence involving obligatory endorsement,

;

94.2.b

in subsection (8A)(a), for sub-paragraph (ii) substitute—

94.2.b.ii

where the conditional offer relates to an offence involving obligatory
endorsement, fulfils the identification requirements,

;

94.2.c

after subsection (8A) insert—

94.2.c.8B

For the purposes of subsection (8A)(a)(ii), an alleged offender fulfils the
identification requirements if—

94.2.c.8B.a

the alleged offender provides the appropriate person with identification
information, or

94.2.c.8B.b

the appropriate person is otherwise satisfied of the alleged offender’s
identity.

94.2.c.8C

In this section “ identification information ” means—

94.2.c.a

the alleged offender’s name and date of birth, and

94.2.c.b

if the alleged offender is the holder of a licence, the licence number.

94.3

In section 76 (effect of offer and payment of penalty)—

94.3.a

in subsection (2), for “makes payment of the fixed penalty in accordance with
the conditional offer” substitute  “has fulfilled the conditions specified in
the conditional offer under section 75(8A)(a)” ;

94.3.b

in subsection (3)(b), omit the words from “together” to “his licence”;

94.3.c

in subsection (4), for the words from “requirements” to “fulfilled” substitute
“alleged offender has not fulfilled the conditions specified in the
conditional offer under section 75(8A)(a)” .

94.4

In section 77A (endorsement of driving records where penalty paid)—

94.4.a

for subsection (1)(a) substitute—

94.4.a.a

a conditional offer has been issued to a person (“the alleged offender”) under
section 75(1), (2) or (3),

;

94.4.b

in subsection (1)(b), for “76” substitute  “76(2)” ;

94.4.c

in subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b), omit “together with any
licence delivered under paragraph (a) above”;

94.4.d

in subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), omit “and return any
licence delivered to him under this section to the alleged offender”;

94.4.e

for subsection (2)(b) substitute—

94.4.e.b

in a case where—

94.4.e.b.i

a conditional offer is issued to a person (“the alleged offender”) under
section 75(1A) or (3B), and

94.4.e.b.ii

proceedings against the alleged offender are excluded by section 76(2).

##### Surrender of licences and test certificates by new drivers

95

Schedule 9 contains amendments to the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995
which make provision about the surrender of driving licences and test
certificates in the case of new drivers.

##### Minor and consequential amendments

96

Schedule 10 contains minor and consequential amendments.

#### Fixed penalty notices in Scotland

##### Power to issue fixed penalty notices on-the-spot in Scotland

97

97.1

In section 54(1) of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (notices on-the-spot
etc.), omit “in England and Wales”.

97.2

In section 75(4) of that Act (issue of conditional offer: restrictions), after
“notice” insert  “in respect of the offence has been given under section 54 of
this Act or” .

97.3

Paragraph 103(2) of Schedule 4 to the Road Traffic Act 1991 (amendment to
section 54 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 which is superseded by
provision made by this section) is omitted.

### Cautions

#### Introductory

##### Diversionary and community cautions

98

98.1

This Part makes provision for cautions known as—

98.1.a

diversionary cautions, and

98.1.b

community cautions.

98.2

A diversionary caution may, in accordance with this Part, be given by an
authorised person to a person aged 18 or over in respect of an offence.

98.3

A community caution may, in accordance with this Part, be given by an
authorised person to a person aged 18 or over in respect of an offence other
than an excluded offence.

98.4

Diversionary and community cautions must have one or more conditions attached
to them.

98.5

Breach of a condition may, in accordance with this Part, result in—

98.5.a

prosecution for the offence, in the case of a diversionary caution, or

98.5.b

a financial penalty, in the case of a community caution.

98.6

In this Part “ excluded offence ” means—

98.6.a

an indictable-only offence;

98.6.b

an offence triable either way which is prescribed in regulations, or

98.6.c

a summary offence which is prescribed in regulations.

98.7

In this Part “ authorised person ”, in relation to a diversionary or community
caution, means—

98.7.a

a constable,

98.7.b

an investigating officer, or

98.7.c

a person authorised by a prosecution authority for purposes relating to
cautions of that kind.

#### Diversionary cautions

##### Giving a diversionary caution

99

99.1

An authorised person may give a diversionary caution to a person aged 18 or
over (“the offender”) in respect of an offence if the following requirements
are met.

99.2

The requirements are that—

99.2.a

an authorised person or a prosecution authority decides—

99.2.a.i

that there is sufficient evidence to charge the offender with the offence, and

99.2.a.ii

that a diversionary caution should be given to the offender in respect of the
offence;

99.2.b

the offender admits having committed the offence;

99.2.c

the offender consents to being given the caution;

99.2.d

an authorised person—

99.2.d.i

explains the effect of the caution to the offender, and

99.2.d.ii

in particular, warns the offender that failure to comply with any of the
conditions attached to the caution may result in prosecution for the offence;

99.2.e

the offender signs a document which contains—

99.2.e.i

details of the offence,

99.2.e.ii

the offender’s admission to having committed the offence,

99.2.e.iii

the offender’s consent to being given the caution, and

99.2.e.iv

the conditions attached to the caution.

99.3

But if the offence is an indictable-only offence, the authorised person may
not give a diversionary caution to the offender except—

99.3.a

in exceptional circumstances relating to the person or the offence, and

99.3.b

with the consent of the Director of Public Prosecutions.

99.4

A diversionary caution may not be given in respect of an offence committed
before the coming into force of this section.

99.5

The power to give a diversionary caution under subsection  (1)  is also
subject to regulations under section 117 (restrictions on multiple use of
cautions).

##### Deciding on the conditions

100

100.1

The conditions attached to a diversionary caution are to be decided upon by—

100.1.a

an authorised person, or

100.1.b

in a case where a prosecution authority has taken the decision that the
caution should be given, the prosecution authority.

100.2

The conditions which may be attached to a diversionary caution are those
authorised by—

100.2.a

section 101 (rehabilitation and reparation conditions),

100.2.b

section 102 (financial penalty conditions), and

100.2.c

section 103 (conditions relating to certain foreign offenders).

100.3

When deciding what conditions to attach to a diversionary caution the
authorised person or prosecution authority must—

100.3.a

make reasonable efforts, or ensure that reasonable efforts are or have been
made, to obtain the views of any victim or victims of the offence, and

100.3.b

take those views into account.

100.4

The views referred to in subsection  (3)  include in particular views as to
whether the offender should carry out any of the actions listed in the
community remedy document.

100.5

Where it is the view of the victim or all the victims that the offender should
carry out a particular action listed in the community remedy document, the
authorised person or prosecution authority must attach that as a condition
unless it seems to the authorised person or prosecution authority—

100.5.a

the action is not one that can be attached as a condition to a diversionary
caution, or

100.5.b

it would be inappropriate to do so.

##### Rehabilitation and reparation conditions

101

101.1

Conditions with one or both of the objects in subsection  (2)  may be attached
to a diversionary caution.

101.2

The objects are—

101.2.a

facilitating the rehabilitation of the offender;

101.2.b

ensuring that the offender makes reparation for the offence.

101.3

The conditions which may be attached to a diversionary caution for the objects
referred to in subsection  (2)  include—

101.3.a

restrictive conditions,

101.3.b

unpaid work conditions, and

101.3.c

attendance conditions.

101.4

A restrictive condition is a condition requiring the offender—

101.4.a

not to meet or communicate with specified individuals;

101.4.b

not to be in, or go to, specified addresses, places or areas in the United
Kingdom;

101.4.c

not to carry out or participate in specified activities;

101.4.d

not to engage in specified conduct (which may include conduct constituting a
criminal offence).

101.5

An unpaid work condition is a condition requiring the offender to carry out
unpaid work of a specified description for a specified number of hours, which
may not exceed 20.

101.6

An attendance condition is a condition requiring the offender to attend a
specified place—

101.6.a

for a specified purpose, and

101.6.b

for a specified number of hours, which may not exceed 20 where the condition
only has the object referred to in subsection  (2)(b) .

101.7

Where an attendance condition requires the offender to attend somewhere for
the purpose of participating in any education or training, or receiving any
other service, the attendance condition may also require the offender to pay
for the reasonable cost of the provision of the education, training or service
to the offender.

101.8

Regulations may amend subsection  (5)  or  (6)(b)  (or both) so as to
substitute a different number of hours.

101.9

A condition authorised by this section may—

101.9.a

contain further details as to how it must be complied with (including the
times at or between which something must or must not be done);

101.9.b

provide for those details to be supplied, after the giving of the caution, by
a specified person or a person of a specified description.

101.10

A condition authorised by this section may not require a person to remain at
their own or anyone else’s residence for any period of time.

101.11

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the caution.

##### Financial penalty conditions

102

102.1

A condition requiring the offender to pay a financial penalty may be attached
to a diversionary caution with the object of punishing the offender.

102.2

The condition must specify—

102.2.a

the amount of the financial penalty,

102.2.b

the person to whom the financial penalty must be paid,

102.2.c

how it must or may be paid, and

102.2.d

the date on or before which it must be paid.

102.3

The amount specified under subsection  (2)(a)  must not exceed an amount
prescribed in regulations.

102.4

Where the person specified under subsection  (2)(b)  is not the designated
officer for a magistrates’ court, once the penalty is paid to that person they
must give it to such an officer.

102.5

The date specified under subsection  (2)(d)  must be the last day of the
period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the caution is given.

##### Foreign offenders’ conditions

103

103.1

Where a diversionary caution is given to a relevant foreign offender, a
condition with one or both of the objects in subsection  (2)  may be attached
to it.

103.2

The objects are—

103.2.a

bringing about the departure of the relevant foreign offender from the United
Kingdom;

103.2.b

ensuring that the relevant foreign offender does not return to the United
Kingdom for a period of time.

103.3

If a diversionary caution has a condition with the object referred to in
subsection  (2)(b) , the expiry of the period does not of itself give rise to
any right on the part of the offender to return to the United Kingdom.

103.4

In this section “ relevant foreign offender ” means—

103.4.a

an offender directions for whose removal from the United Kingdom have been, or
may be, given under Schedule 2 to the Immigration Act 1971 or section 10 of
the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999, or

103.4.b

an offender against whom a deportation order under section 5 of the
Immigration Act 1971 is in force.

##### Variation of conditions

104

An authorised person or prosecution authority may, with the consent of the
offender, vary the conditions attached to a diversionary caution by—

104.a

varying or omitting any of the conditions;

104.b

adding a condition.

##### Effect of diversionary caution

105

105.1

Where a diversionary caution is given, criminal proceedings may be instituted
against the offender for the offence in respect of which the caution was given
if, but only if, the offender fails without reasonable excuse to comply with
any of the conditions attached to the caution.

105.2

The document mentioned in section 99 (2)(e)  is admissible in such
proceedings.

105.3

Where such proceedings are instituted, the diversionary caution ceases to have
effect.

##### Arrest for failure to comply

106

106.1

If a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the offender has
failed without reasonable excuse to comply with any of the conditions attached
to a diversionary caution, the constable may arrest the offender without
warrant.

106.2

A person arrested under this section must be—

106.2.a

charged with the offence in question, or

106.2.b

released without charge.

106.3

A person released without charge under subsection  (2)(b)  must be—

106.3.a

released on bail if—

106.3.a.i

the release is to enable a decision to be made as to whether the offender
should be charged with the offence, and

106.3.a.ii

the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

106.3.b

in any other case, released without bail (with or without any variation in the
conditions attached to the caution).

106.4

Subsection  (2)  also applies in the case of—

106.4.a

a person who, having been released on bail under subsection  (3)(a) , returns
to a police station to answer bail or is otherwise in police detention at a
police station;

106.4.b

a person who, having been released on bail under section 30A of the 1984 Act
(bail elsewhere than at police station) as applied by section 107 below,
attends at a police station to answer bail or is otherwise in police detention
at a police station;

106.4.c

a person who is arrested under section 30D or 46A of the 1984 Act (power of
arrest for failure to answer to police bail) as applied by section 107 below.

106.5

Where a person is released on bail under subsection  (3)(a) , the custody
officer must inform the person that the release is to enable a decision to be
made as to whether the person should be charged with the offence in question.

106.6

A person arrested under this section, or any other person in whose case
subsection  (2)  applies, may be kept in police detention—

106.6.a

to enable the person to be dealt with in accordance with that subsection, or

106.6.b

where applicable, to enable the power under section 47(4A) of the 1984 Act
(power of custody officer to appoint a different or additional time for
answering to police bail), as applied by section 107 below, to be exercised.

If the person is not in a fit state to be dealt with in that way, or to enable
that power to be exercised, they may be kept in police detention until they
are.

106.7

The power under subsection  (6)(a)  includes power to keep the person in
police detention if it is necessary to do so for the purpose of investigating
whether the person has failed, without reasonable excuse, to comply with any
of the conditions attached to the diversionary caution.

106.8

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  must be complied with as soon as practicable after
the person arrested arrives at the police station or, in the case of a person
arrested at the police station, as soon as practicable after the arrest.

106.9

Subsection  (2)  does not require a person who—

106.9.a

falls within subsection  (4)(a)  or  (b) , and

106.9.b

is in police detention in relation to a matter other than the diversionary
caution,

to be released if the person is liable to be kept in detention in relation to
that other matter.

106.10

In subsection  (3)(a)(ii) , the reference to the pre-conditions for bail is to
be read in accordance with section 50A of the 1984 Act.

##### Application of Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984

107

107.1

In the case of a person arrested under section 106, the provisions of the 1984
Act specified in subsection  (2)  apply, with the modifications specified in
subsection  (3)  and with such further modifications as are necessary, as they
apply in the case of a person arrested for an offence.

107.2

The provisions are—

107.2.a

section 30 (arrest elsewhere than at police station);

107.2.b

sections 30A to 30D (bail elsewhere than at police station);

107.2.c

section 31 (arrest for further offence);

107.2.d

section 34(1) to (5E) (limitations on police detention);

107.2.e

section 36 (custody officers at police stations);

107.2.f

section 37(4) to (6C) (record of grounds for detention);

107.2.g

section 38 (duties of custody officer after charge);

107.2.h

section 39 (responsibilities in relation to persons detained);

107.2.i

section 55A (x-rays and ultrasound scans).

107.3

The modifications are—

107.3.a

in section 30CA, omit subsections (4A) to (4D);

107.3.b

in section 30CA, in subsection (5), in paragraph (a) of the definition of
“relevant officer”, for the reference to being involved in the investigation
of the relevant offence substitute a reference to being involved—

107.3.b.i

in the investigation of the offence in respect of which the person was given
the diversionary caution, or

107.3.b.ii

in investigating whether the person has failed, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with any of the conditions attached to the diversionary caution;

107.3.c

in section 36(5) and (7), for the references to being involved in the
investigation of an offence for which the person is in police detention
substitute references to being involved—

107.3.c.i

in the investigation of the offence in respect of which the person was given
the diversionary caution, or

107.3.c.ii

in investigating whether the person has failed, without reasonable excuse, to
comply with any of the conditions attached to the diversionary caution;

107.3.d

in section 38(1)(a)(iii) and (iv), for “arrested for” substitute  “charged
with” ;

107.3.e

in section 39(2) and (3), for the references to an offence substitute
references to a failure to comply with conditions attached to the diversionary
caution.

107.4

Section 40 of the 1984 Act (review of police detention) applies to a person in
police detention by virtue of section 106 above as it applies to a person in
police detention in connection with the investigation of an offence, but with
the following modifications—

107.4.a

omit subsections (8) and (8A);

107.4.b

in subsection (9), for the reference to section 37(9) or 37D(5) substitute a
reference to the second sentence of section 106(6) above.

107.5

The following provisions of the 1984 Act apply to a person released on bail
under section 106(3)(a) above as they apply to a person released on bail under
section 37 of that Act—

107.5.a

section 46A (power of arrest for failure to answer to police bail);

107.5.b

section 47 (bail after arrest), except subsections (4D) and (4E).

107.6

Section 54 of the 1984 Act (searches of detained persons) applies in the case
of a person who falls within section 106(4) above and is detained in a police
station under that section as it applies in the case of a person who falls
within section 34(7) of that Act and is detained at a police station under
section 37.

107.7

Section 54A of the 1984 Act (searches and examination to ascertain identity)
applies with the following modifications in the case of a person who is
detained in a police station under section 106 above—

107.7.a

in subsections (1)(a) and (12), after “as a person involved in the commission
of an offence” insert  “or as having failed to comply with any of the
conditions attached to the person’s diversionary caution” ;

107.7.b

in subsection (9)(a), after “the investigation of an offence” insert  “, the
investigation of whether the person in question has failed to comply with any
of the conditions attached to the person’s diversionary caution” .

#### Community cautions

##### Giving a community caution

108

108.1

An authorised person may give a community caution to a person aged 18 or over
(“the offender”) in respect of an offence, other than an excluded offence, if
the following requirements are met.

108.2

The requirements are that—

108.2.a

an authorised person or a prosecution authority decides that—

108.2.a.i

there is sufficient evidence to charge the offender with the offence, and

108.2.a.ii

a community caution should be given to the offender in respect of the offence;

108.2.b

the offender admits to having committed the offence;

108.2.c

the offender consents to being given the caution;

108.2.d

an authorised person—

108.2.d.i

explains the effect of the caution to the offender, and

108.2.d.ii

in particular, warns the offender of the effect of failure to comply with any
of the conditions attached to the caution;

108.2.e

the offender signs a document which contains—

108.2.e.i

details of the offence,

108.2.e.ii

the offender’s admission to having committed the offence,

108.2.e.iii

the offender’s consent to being given the caution, and

108.2.e.iv

the conditions attached to the caution.

108.3

A community caution may not be given in respect of an offence committed before
the coming into force of this section.

108.4

The power to give a community caution under subsection  (1)  is also subject
to regulations under section 117 (restrictions on multiple use of cautions).

##### Deciding on the conditions

109

109.1

The conditions attached to a community caution are to be decided upon by—

109.1.a

an authorised person, or

109.1.b

in a case where a prosecution authority has taken the decision that the
caution should be given, the prosecution authority.

109.2

The conditions which may be attached to a community caution are those
authorised by—

109.2.a

section 110 (rehabilitation and reparation conditions), and

109.2.b

section 111 (financial penalty conditions).

109.3

When deciding what conditions to attach to a community caution the authorised
person or prosecution authority must—

109.3.a

make reasonable efforts, or ensure that reasonable efforts are or have been
made, to obtain the views of any victim or victims of the offence, and

109.3.b

take those views into account.

109.4

The views referred to in subsection  (3)  include in particular views as to
whether the offender should carry out any of the actions listed in the
community remedy document.

109.5

Where it is the view of the victim or all the victims that the offender should
carry out a particular action listed in the community remedy document, the
authorised person or prosecution authority must attach that as a condition
unless it seems to the authorised person or prosecution authority—

109.5.a

the action is not one that can be attached as a condition to a community
caution, or

109.5.b

it would be inappropriate to do so.

##### Rehabilitation and reparation conditions

110

110.1

Conditions with one or both of the objects in subsection  (2)  may be attached
to a community caution.

110.2

The objects are—

110.2.a

facilitating the rehabilitation of the offender;

110.2.b

ensuring that the offender makes reparation for the offence.

110.3

The conditions which may be attached to a community caution for the objects
referred to in subsection  (2)  include—

110.3.a

restrictive conditions,

110.3.b

unpaid work conditions, and

110.3.c

attendance conditions.

110.4

A restrictive condition is a condition requiring the offender—

110.4.a

not to meet or communicate with specified individuals;

110.4.b

not to be in or go to specified addresses, places or areas in the United
Kingdom;

110.4.c

not to carry out or participate in specified activities;

110.4.d

not to engage in specified conduct (which may include conduct constituting a
criminal offence).

110.5

An unpaid work condition is a condition requiring the offender to carry out
unpaid work of a specified description for a specified number of hours, which
may not exceed 10.

110.6

An attendance condition is a condition requiring the offender to attend a
specified place—

110.6.a

for a specified purpose, and

110.6.b

for a specified number of hours, which may not exceed 10 where the condition
only has the object referred to in subsection  (2)(b) .

110.7

Where an attendance condition requires the offender to attend somewhere for
the purpose of participating in any education or training, or receiving any
other service, the attendance condition may also require the offender to pay
for the reasonable cost of the provision of the education, training or service
to the offender.

110.8

Regulations may amend subsection  (5)  or  (6)(b)  (or both) so as to
substitute a different number of hours.

110.9

A condition authorised by this section may—

110.9.a

contain further details as to how it must be complied with (including the
times at or between which something must or must not be done);

110.9.b

provide for those details to be supplied, after the giving of the caution, by
a specified person or a person of a specified description.

110.10

A condition authorised by this section may not require a person to remain at
their own or anyone else’s residence for any period of time.

110.11

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the caution.

##### Financial penalty conditions

111

111.1

A condition requiring the offender to pay a financial penalty may be attached
to a community caution with the object of punishing the offender.

111.2

The condition must specify—

111.2.a

the amount of the financial penalty,

111.2.b

the person to whom the financial penalty must be paid,

111.2.c

how it must or may be paid,

111.2.d

the date on or before which the penalty must be paid, and

111.2.e

the consequences of non-payment.

111.3

The amount specified under subsection  (2)(a)  must not exceed an amount
prescribed in regulations.

111.4

Where the person specified under subsection  (2)(b)  is not the designated
officer for a magistrates’ court, once the penalty is paid to that person they
must give it to such an officer.

111.5

The date specified under subsection  (2)(d)  must be the last day of the
period of 28 days beginning with the day on which the caution is given.

111.6

If the financial penalty is not paid on or before the date specified under
subsection  (2)(d) , the amount of the penalty required to be paid by the
condition is increased by 50%.

111.7

Where subsection  (6)  applies, if the increased penalty is not paid within
the period of 21 days beginning with the day after the date specified under
subsection  (2)(d) , the amount of the increased penalty may be registered
under section 112 for enforcement against the offender as a fine.

##### Enforcement of financial penalties: registration

112

112.1

The chief officer of police may, in respect of any amount registrable under
section 111 (7) , issue a certificate (“a registration certificate”)—

112.1.a

giving particulars of the financial penalty,

112.1.b

stating that the amount is registrable for enforcement against the offender as
a fine, and

112.1.c

stating the name and last known address of the offender.

112.2

The chief officer of police issuing a registration certificate must cause it
to be sent to the designated officer for the local justice area in which the
offender appears to the chief officer to reside.

112.3

The designated officer for a local justice area in receipt of a registration
certificate must—

112.3.a

register the amount for enforcement as a fine in that area by entering it in
the register of a magistrates’ court acting for that area, or

112.3.b

if it appears to the designated officer that the offender does not reside in
that area, cause the certificate to be sent to the person appearing to the
officer to be the designated officer for the local justice area in which the
offender resides.

112.4

A designated officer registering an amount under this section for enforcement
as a fine must give the offender notice of the registration which—

112.4.a

specifies the amount registered, and

112.4.b

gives the information with respect to the financial penalty, and the authority
for registration, that was included in the registration certificate.

112.5

If an amount is registered in a magistrates’ court as a result of this
section, any enactment referring (in whatever terms) to a fine imposed, or
other sum adjudged to be paid, on conviction by such a court applies as if the
registered amount were a fine imposed by that court on the conviction of the
offender on the date on which the amount was registered.

##### Enforcement of financial penalties: court proceedings

113

113.1

This section applies where, in any proceedings for the enforcement of an
amount registered under this section, the person against whom the proceedings
are taken claims—

113.1.a

not to be the person to whom the community caution was given,

113.1.b

to have paid the amount that was required to be paid, or

113.1.c

to have a reasonable excuse for not paying.

113.2

The court may adjourn the proceedings, on one or more occasions, for the
purpose of allowing the claim to be investigated, but must not adjourn for
more than 28 days in total.

113.3

The court must accept a claim under subsection  (1)(a)  or  (b)  unless it is
shown, on the balance of probabilities, that the claim is unfounded.

113.4

Where a court accepts a claim under subsection  (1)(b) , the condition of the
caution by virtue of which the amount is required to be paid ceases to have
effect.

113.5

In the case of a claim under subsection  (1)(c) , the court must accept the
claim so far as relating to the facts claimed (leaving aside any question as
to the reasonableness of the excuse), unless it is shown, on the balance of
probabilities, that the claim so far as relating to those facts is unfounded.

113.6

Where a court accepts a claim under subsection  (1)(c) , the court may order
that the condition of the caution by virtue of which the amount is required to
be paid—

113.6.a

ceases to have effect, or

113.6.b

is varied so as to reduce the amount payable or to extend the time for payment
(or both).

##### Variation of conditions

114

114.1

An authorised person or prosecution authority may, with the consent of the
offender, vary the conditions attached to a community caution by—

114.1.a

varying or omitting any of the conditions;

114.1.b

adding a condition.

114.2

See also section 115 (2)  (addition of financial penalty).

##### Effect of community caution

115

115.1

Where a community caution is given, criminal proceedings may not be instituted
against the offender for the offence in respect of which the caution was
given.

115.2

If the offender fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any condition
imposed under section 110, an authorised person or prosecution authority may—

115.2.a

rescind the condition, and

115.2.b

attach a condition imposing a financial penalty (or further such condition)
under section 111.

#### General

##### Code of practice

116

116.1

The Secretary of State must prepare a code of practice in relation to
diversionary and community cautions.

116.2

The code may, in particular, include provision as to—

116.2.a

the circumstances in which diversionary and community cautions may be given;

116.2.b

the procedure to be followed in connection with the giving of diversionary and
community cautions;

116.2.c

the conditions which may be attached to diversionary and community cautions
and the time for which they may have effect;

116.2.d

the category of constable or investigating officer by whom diversionary and
community cautions may be given;

116.2.e

the persons whom a prosecution authority may authorise as authorised persons
for the purposes of this Part;

116.2.f

the form which diversionary and community cautions are to take and the manner
in which they are to be given and recorded;

116.2.g

the places where diversionary and community cautions may be given;

116.2.h

the provision which may be made in a condition under section 102 (2)(b)  or
111 (2)(b) ;

116.2.i

the monitoring of compliance with conditions attached to diversionary and
community cautions;

116.2.j

the exercise of the power of arrest conferred by section 106 (1) ;

116.2.k

who is to decide how a person should be dealt with under section 106 (2)  and
(3) .

116.3

After preparing a draft of the code the Secretary of State—

116.3.a

must publish the draft,

116.3.b

must consider any representations made to the Secretary of State about the
draft, and

116.3.c

may amend the draft accordingly,

but may not publish or amend the draft without the consent of the Attorney
General.

116.4

After complying with subsection  (3)  the Secretary of State must lay the code
before each House of Parliament.

116.5

After complying with subsection  (4)  the Secretary of State may bring the
code into force by regulations.

116.6

The Secretary of State may from time to time revise a code of practice brought
into force under this section.

116.7

Subsections  (3)  to  (6)  apply (with appropriate modifications) to a revised
code as they apply to the original code.

##### Restriction on multiple cautions

117

117.1

Regulations may prohibit the giving of a diversionary or community caution to
a person in respect of an offence where the person has already been given one
or more cautions.

117.2

A prohibition under subsection  (1)  may in particular be framed by reference
to—

117.2.a

the kinds of caution previously given to the person;

117.2.b

the number of times any kind of caution has been given to the person;

117.2.c

the period preceding the commission of the offence within which any kind of
caution has been given to the person;

117.2.d

the offence or description of offences in respect of which any kind of caution
has been given to the person.

117.3

For the purposes of this section “ caution ” means—

117.3.a

a diversionary or community caution;

117.3.b

a conditional caution under Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 given
before the coming into force of section 118;

117.3.c

any other caution given to the person before the coming into force of that
section in respect of an offence where—

117.3.c.i

the person admitted having committed the offence,

117.3.c.ii

the person was aged 18 or over when the caution was given, and

117.3.c.iii

the caution was given by a constable or other person authorised to give the
caution.

##### Abolition of other cautions and out-of-court disposals

118

118.1

No caution other than a diversionary or community caution may be given to a
person aged 18 or over who admits to having committed an offence.

118.2

In the Criminal Justice Act 2003, omit Part 3 (conditional cautions).

118.3

In the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, omit Chapter 1 of Part 1 (on-the-
spot penalties for disorderly behaviour).

118.4

Subsections (2) and (3) do not affect the continuing operation of the
provisions repealed by those subsections in relation to offences committed
before the day on which this section comes into force.

#### Supplementary

##### Consequential amendments relating to Part 6

119

Schedule 11 contains consequential amendments.

##### Regulations under Part 6

120

120.1

Regulations under this Part are to be made by the Secretary of State by
statutory instrument.

120.2

Regulations under this Part may make—

120.2.a

different provision for different purposes;

120.2.b

consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional and transitory
provision and savings.

120.3

A statutory instrument containing the regulations specified in subsection  (4)
(with or without other provision) may not be made unless a draft of the
instrument has been laid before, and approved by resolution of, each House of
Parliament.

120.4

The regulations referred to in subsection  (3)  are—

120.4.a

regulations under section 98 (6)(b)  or  (c)  (excluded offences);

120.4.b

regulations under section 101 (8)  or 110 (8) ;

120.4.c

the first regulations under section 102 (3)  or 111 (3)  (maximum amount of
financial penalty);

120.4.d

any other regulations under section 102 (3)  or 111 (3)  which increase or
decrease the maximum amount of a financial penalty by more than is necessary
to reflect changes in the value of money;

120.4.e

regulations under section 116(5) (commencement of code);

120.4.f

regulations under section 117 (restriction on multiple cautions).

120.5

A statutory instrument containing regulations under this Part to which
subsection  (3)  does not apply is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament.

##### Interpretation of Part 6

121

In this Part—

“ the 1984 Act ” means the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984; “ authorised
person ” has the meaning given by section 98 (7) ; “ community remedy document
” means the community remedy document (as revised from time to time) published
under section 101 of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014
for the police area where the offence in question was committed; “ excluded
offence ” has the meaning given by section 98 (6) ; “ indictable-only offence
” means an offence which, if committed by an adult, is triable only on
indictment; “ investigating officer ” means— an officer of Revenue and Customs
appointed in accordance with section 2(1) of the Commissioners for Revenue and
Customs Act 2005, or a person designated as a policing support officer or a
policing support volunteer under section 38 of the Police Reform Act 2002; “
police detention ” has the same meaning as in the 1984 Act (see section 118(2)
of that Act); “ prosecution authority ” means— the Attorney General; the
Director of Public Prosecutions; the Director of the Serious Fraud Office; the
Secretary of State; a person prescribed in regulations; “ victim ”, in
relation to an offence, means the particular person who appears to have been
affected, or principally affected, by the offence.

### Sentencing and release

#### Custodial sentences

##### Penalties for offences involving children or vulnerable adults

###### Penalty for cruelty to children

122

122.1

In section 1 of the Children and Young Persons Act 1933 (cruelty to persons
under 16), in subsection (1)(a) (penalty on conviction on indictment), for
“ten” substitute  “14” .

122.2

Subsection  (1)  applies only in relation to offences committed on or after
the day on which this section comes into force.

###### Penalty for causing or allowing a child or vulnerable adult to die or suffer serious physical harm

123

123.1

Section 5 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004 (causing or
allowing a child or vulnerable adult to die or suffer serious harm) is amended
in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

123.2

In subsection (7) (penalty in the case of a person’s death), for the words
“liable on conviction on indictment” substitute

liable—

123.2.a

on conviction on indictment in England and Wales, to imprisonment for life or
to a fine, or to both;

123.2.b

on conviction on indictment in Northern Ireland,

.

123.3

In subsection (8) (penalty in the case of serious physical harm), for the
words “liable on conviction on indictment” substitute

liable—

123.3.a

on conviction on indictment in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 14 years or to a fine, or to both;

123.3.b

on conviction on indictment in Northern Ireland,

.

123.4

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply only in relation to offences where the
unlawful act to which the offence relates is an act that occurs, or so much of
such an act as occurs, on or after the day on which this section comes into
force.

123.5

In Schedule 19 to the Sentencing Code (list of certain specified offences
carrying maximum sentence on indictment of imprisonment for life), after
paragraph 20 insert—

############ Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004

123.5.20A

123.5.20A.1

An offence under section 5 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act
2004 that meets the conditions in sub-paragraph (2).

123.5.20A.2

The conditions are that—

123.5.20A.2.a

the unlawful act to which the offence relates was an act that occurred, or so
much of an act as occurred, on or after the day on which section 123 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

123.5.20A.2.b

the offender is liable on conviction on indictment to imprisonment for life.

##### Minimum sentences for particular offences

###### Minimum sentences for particular offences

124

124.1

The Sentencing Code is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (8) .

124.2

In section 312 (minimum sentence for offences of threatening with weapon or
bladed article)—

124.2.a

in subsection (2), for “The court” substitute  “If the offence was committed
before the day on which section 124 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court” , and

124.2.b

after subsection (2) insert—

124.2.b.2A

If the offence was committed on or after the day on which section 124 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court must
impose an appropriate custodial sentence unless the court is of the opinion
that there are exceptional circumstances which—

124.2.b.2A.a

relate to the offence or to the offender, and

124.2.b.2A.b

justify not doing so.

124.3

In section 313 (minimum sentence of 7 years for third class A drug trafficking
offence)—

124.3.a

in subsection (2), for “The court” substitute  “If the index offence was
committed before the day on which section 124 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court” ,

124.3.b

after subsection (2) insert—

124.3.b.2A

If the index offence was committed on or after the day on which section 124 of
the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court
must impose an appropriate custodial sentence for a term of at least 7 years
unless the court is of the opinion that there are exceptional circumstances
which—

124.3.b.2A.a

relate to any of the offences or to the offender, and

124.3.b.2A.b

justify not doing so.

, and

124.3.c

in subsection (4)(b), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

124.4

In section 314 (minimum sentence of 3 years for third domestic burglary)—

124.4.a

in subsection (2), for “The court” substitute  “If the index offence was
committed before the day on which section 124 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court” ,

124.4.b

after subsection (2) insert—

124.4.b.2A

If the index offence was committed on or after the day on which section 124 of
the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court
must impose an appropriate custodial sentence for a term of at least 3 years
unless the court is of the opinion that there are exceptional circumstances
which—

124.4.b.2A.a

relate to any of the offences or to the offender, and

124.4.b.2A.b

justify not doing so.

, and

124.4.c

in subsection (4)(b), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

124.5

In section 315 (minimum sentence for repeat offence involving weapon or bladed
article)—

124.5.a

in subsection (2), for “The court” substitute  “If the index offence was
committed before the day on which section 124 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court” ,

124.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

124.5.b.2A

If the index offence was committed on or after the day on which section 124 of
the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the court
must impose an appropriate custodial sentence unless the court is of the
opinion that there are exceptional circumstances which—

124.5.b.2A.a

relate to the offence, to the previous offence or to the offender, and

124.5.b.2A.b

justify not doing so.

, and

124.5.c

in subsection (3), for “subsection (2)” substitute  “subsections (2) and (2A)”
.

124.6

In section 316(1)(a) (appeals where previous conviction set aside), after
“subsection (2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

124.7

In section 320 (determination of day when offence committed), after “311,”
insert  “312,” .

124.8

In section 399(c) (mandatory sentence requirements)—

124.8.a

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “312(2)” insert  “or (2A)” ,

124.8.b

in sub-paragraph (iii), after “313(2)” insert  “or (2A)” ,

124.8.c

in sub-paragraph (iv), after “314(2)” insert  “or (2A)” , and

124.8.d

in sub-paragraph (v), after “315(2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

124.9

In Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020—

124.9.a

in paragraph 66 (amendments of section 313 of the Code), after paragraph (a)
insert—

124.9.a.aa

in subsection (2A), for “an appropriate custodial sentence” substitute  “a
sentence of imprisonment” ;

, and

124.9.b

in paragraph 67 (amendments of section 314 of the Code), after paragraph (a)
insert—

124.9.b.aa

in subsection (2A), for “an appropriate custodial sentence” substitute  “a
sentence of imprisonment” ;

.

124.10

Schedule 12 contains amendments which are consequential on this section.

124.11

An amendment made by Schedule 12, so far as it has effect—

124.11.a

in relation to dealing with a person for an offence, or

124.11.b

in relation to a sentence passed for an offence,

has effect only where the person committed the offence on or after the day on
which the Schedule came into force.

124.12

For the purposes of subsection  (11) , where an offence is found to have been
committed—

124.12.a

over a period of 2 or more days, or

124.12.b

at some time during a period of 2 or more days,

it is to be taken to have been committed on the last of those days.

##### Life sentences: time to be served

###### Whole life order as starting point for premeditated child murder

125

In Schedule 21 to the Sentencing Code (minimum terms in mandatory life
sentences), in paragraph 2(2), after paragraph (b) insert—

125.ba

the murder of a child involving a substantial degree of premeditation or
planning, where the offence was committed on or after the day on which section
125 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force,

.

###### Whole life orders for young adult offenders in exceptional cases

126

126.1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

126.2

In section 321 (orders to be made on passing life sentence)—

126.2.a

in subsection (3)(a), for the words from “the offender” to “committed”
substitute  “the case is within subsection  (3A)  or  (3B) ” ;

126.2.b

after subsection (3) insert—

126.2.b.3A

A case is within this subsection if the offender was aged 21 or over when the
offence was committed.

126.2.b.3B

A case is within this subsection if—

126.2.b.3B.a

the offence was committed on or after the day on which section 126 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

126.2.b.3B.b

the offender was aged 18 or over but under 21 when the offence was committed.

126.2.b.3C

In a case within subsection  (3B) , the court may arrive at the opinion set
out in subsection (3)(b) only if it considers that the seriousness of the
offence, or combination of offences, is exceptionally high even by the
standard of offences which would normally result in a whole life order in a
case within subsection  (3A) .

126.3

In section 322 (further provision about mandatory life sentences), in
subsection (3)(a), after “321(3)” insert  “or  (3C) ” .

###### Starting points for murder committed when under 18

127

In Schedule 21 to the Sentencing Code (minimum terms in mandatory life
sentences), for paragraph 6 substitute—

127.5A

127.5A.1

This paragraph applies if—

127.5A.1.a

the offender was aged under 18 when the offence was committed, and

127.5A.1.b

the offender was convicted of the offence on or after the day on which section
127 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force.

127.5A.2

The appropriate starting point, in determining the minimum term, is the period
given in the entry in column 2, 3 or 4 of the following table that corresponds
to—

127.5A.2.a

the age of the offender when the offence was committed, as set out in column
1, and

127.5A.2.b

the provision of this Schedule that would have supplied the appropriate
starting point had the offender been aged 18 when the offence was committed,
as set out in the headings to columns 2, 3 and 4.

1 2 3 4 Age of offender when offence committed Starting point supplied by
paragraph 3(1) had offender been 18 Starting point supplied by paragraph 4(1)
had offender been 18 Starting point supplied by paragraph 5 had offender been
18 17 27 years 23 years 14 years 15 or 16 20 years 17 years 10 years 14 or
under 15 years 13 years 8 years

127.6

127.6.1

This paragraph applies if—

127.6.1.a

the offender was aged under 18 when the offence was committed, and

127.6.1.b

the offender was convicted of the offence before the day on which section 127
of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force.

127.6.2

The appropriate starting point, in determining the minimum term, is 12 years.

###### Sentences of detention during Her Majesty’s pleasure: review of minimum term

128

128.1

Before the italic heading above section 28 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997
insert—

############ Sentence of detention during Her Majesty’s pleasure: review of minimum term

############# Sentence of detention during Her Majesty’s pleasure imposed on a person under 18: application for minimum term review

128.1.27A

128.1.27A.1

This section applies to a person who—

128.1.27A.1.a

is serving a DHMP sentence, and

128.1.27A.1.b

was under the age of 18 when sentenced;

and such a person is referred to in this section as a “ relevant young
offender ”.

128.1.27A.2

A relevant young offender may make an application for a minimum term review to
the Secretary of State after serving half of the minimum term.

128.1.27A.3

An “application for a minimum term review” is an application made by a
relevant young offender for a reduction in the minimum term.

128.1.27A.4

Where a relevant young offender has made an application for a minimum term
review under this section, the offender may only make a further such
application if—

128.1.27A.4.a

the period of 2 years beginning with the day on which the previous application
was determined has expired, and

128.1.27A.4.b

the offender is under the age of 18 on the day on which the further
application is made.

128.1.27A.5

Where the Secretary of State receives an application under this section, the
Secretary of State must—

128.1.27A.5.a

consider the application, and

128.1.27A.5.b

unless the Secretary of State forms the view that the application is frivolous
or vexatious, refer it to the High Court.

128.1.27A.6

Where the Secretary of State decides not to refer the application to the High
Court, the Secretary of State must give notice of that decision, and the
reasons for it, to the relevant young offender.

128.1.27A.7

If the relevant young offender makes representations or provides further
evidence in support of the application before the end of the period of 4 weeks
beginning with the day on which the notice under subsection  (6)  is given,
the Secretary of State must consider the representations or evidence and—

128.1.27A.7.a

if the Secretary of State is no longer of the view mentioned in subsection
(5)(b) , refer the application to the High Court, or

128.1.27A.7.b

give notice to the offender confirming the decision not to refer the
application.

128.1.27A.8

In this section—

“ DHMP sentence ” means a sentence of detention during Her Majesty’s pleasure
imposed (whether before or after this section comes into force) under a
provision listed in column 1 of the table in subsection  (9) ; “ minimum term
”, in relation to a person serving a DHMP sentence, means the part of the
sentence specified— in the minimum term order made in respect of the sentence,
or where one or more reduction orders have been made under section 27B in
respect of the sentence, in the most recent of those orders; “ minimum term
order ”, in relation to a DHMP sentence, means the order made under the
provision listed in column 2 of the table in subsection  (9)  that corresponds
to the entry in column 1 that relates to the sentence.

128.1.27A.9

The table is as follows—

Provision under which DHMP sentence imposed Provision under which minimum term
order made Section 259 of the Sentencing Code Section 322 of the Sentencing
Code Section 90 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 Section
82A of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 or section 269 of
the Criminal Justice Act 2003 Section 218 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 Section
269 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 or section 322 of the Sentencing Code.

128.1.27A.10

For the purposes of subsection  (4) , an application for a minimum term review
is determined—

128.1.27A.10.a

when the court makes a reduction order or a decision confirming the minimum
term (see section 27B), or

128.1.27A.10.b

in a case where the application is not referred to the court, when the
Secretary of State gives the relevant young offender notice in relation to the
application under subsection  (6) .

128.1.27A.11

There is no right for any person who is serving a DHMP sentence to request a
review of the minimum term other than that conferred by this section.

############# Power of High Court to reduce minimum term

128.1.27B

128.1.27B.1

This section applies where the Secretary of State refers an application for a
minimum term review made by a relevant young offender under section 27A to the
High Court.

128.1.27B.2

The court may—

128.1.27B.2.a

make a reduction order in relation to relevant young offender, or

128.1.27B.2.b

confirm the minimum term in respect of the offender’s DHMP sentence,

and a decision of the court under this subsection is final.

128.1.27B.3

A reduction order is an order that the relevant young offender’s minimum term
is to be reduced to such part of the offender’s DHMP sentence as the court
considers appropriate and is specified in the reduction order.

128.1.27B.4

In deciding whether to make a reduction order, the court must, in particular,
take into account any evidence—

128.1.27B.4.a

that the relevant young offender’s rehabilitation has been exceptional;

128.1.27B.4.b

that the continued detention or imprisonment of the offender for the remainder
of the minimum term is likely to give rise to a serious risk to the welfare or
continued rehabilitation of the offender which cannot be eliminated or
mitigated to a significant degree.

128.1.27B.5

In this section “ DHMP sentence ”, “ minimum term ” and “ relevant young
offender ” have the same meaning as in section 27A.

128.2

In section 28 of that Act (duty to release certain life prisoners), in
subsection (1A), for the words from “the part of” to the end substitute—

128.2.a

the part of the sentence specified in the minimum term order, or

128.2.b

in a case where one or more reduction orders has been made in relation to the
prisoner (see section 27B), the part of the sentence specified in the most
recent of those orders.

128.3

A pre-commencement application—

128.3.a

is to be treated for the purposes of subsection  (4)  of section 27A of the
Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 as if it was made under that section if, at the
time the relevant young offender made the application, they had served at
least half of the minimum term;

128.3.b

if not determined before the day on which this section comes into force, is to
be dealt with in the manner in which it would have been dealt with immediately
before this section comes into force.

128.4

In this section—

“ minimum term ”, in relation to a relevant young offender, means the part of
the offender’s DHMP sentence specified in the minimum term order made in
respect of the sentence (and for these purposes “DHMP sentence” and “minimum
term order” have same meanings as in that section 27A); “ pre-commencement
application ” means an application by a relevant young offender for a review
of the minimum term that was made to the Secretary of State before the day on
which this section comes into force; “ relevant young offender ” has the same
meaning as in section 27A of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997.

###### Life sentence not fixed by law: minimum term

129

129.1

In section 323 of the Sentencing Code (minimum term order for life sentence
not fixed by law)—

129.1.a

after subsection (1) insert—

129.1.a.1A

The starting point, in determining the minimum term, is the relevant portion
of the notional determinate sentence.

129.1.a.1B

The “ notional determinate sentence ”, in relation to a life sentence, is the
custodial sentence that the court would have imposed if the court had not
imposed the life sentence.

129.1.a.1C

The “relevant portion” of the notional determinate sentence is—

129.1.a.1C.a

where that sentence is within section 247A(2A) of the Criminal Justice Act
2003 (terrorist prisoners not entitled to early release), the term that the
court would have determined as the appropriate custodial term (within the
meaning given by subsection (8) of that section);

129.1.a.1C.b

where that sentence is a sentence under section 252A, 254, 265, 266, 278 or
279 (and is not within paragraph (a)), two-thirds of the term that the court
would have determined as the appropriate custodial term under that section;

129.1.a.1C.c

where that sentence is any other custodial sentence, two-thirds of the term of
the sentence.

;

129.1.b

in subsection (2)—

129.1.b.i

for the words before paragraph (a), substitute  “The minimum term must be the
starting point adjusted as the court considers appropriate, taking into
account—” ;

129.1.b.ii

omit paragraph (b) (but not the final “and”).

129.2

In section 261A(3) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (life sentences: further
provision), before paragraph (a) insert—

129.2.za

subsection (1C)(b) has effect as if for “section 252A, 254, 265, 266, 278 or
279” there were substituted—

129.2.za.i

section 224A or 224B of the Armed Forces Act 2006, or

129.2.za.ii

section 254, 266, 278 or 279 passed as a result of section 219A, 219ZA or 221A
of that Act,

.

129.3

In the Sentencing Act 2020—

129.3.a

in section 61 (sentencing guidelines for life sentences etc)—

129.3.a.i

for subsection (6), for the words from “the notional” to “made under”
substitute  “the notional determinate sentence within the meaning of” ;

129.3.a.ii

omit subsection (7);

129.3.b

omit the following (which concern the commencement of paragraph 85 of Schedule
22)—

129.3.b.i

section 407(1)(b)(ii) (but not the final “or”);

129.3.b.ii

section 417(8);

129.3.c

in Schedule 22 (prospective amendments of the Sentencing Code)—

129.3.c.i

in paragraph 68A (amendments of section 323 of the Sentencing Code in relation
to prospective abolition of detention in young offender institution), before
sub-paragraph (a) insert—

129.3.c.i.za

in subsection (1C)(b), omit “265, 266,

;

129.3.c.ii

omit paragraph 85 (prospective amendments of section 323);

129.3.d

in paragraph 20A of Schedule 26 (amendments of section 261A of Armed Forces
Act 2006 in relation to prospective abolition of detention in young offender
institution), before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

129.3.d.za

in paragraph (za)—

129.3.d.za.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), omit “265, 266,”;

129.3.d.za.ii

in sub-paragraph (ii), omit “266,”.

##### Release on licence

###### Increase in requisite custodial period for certain violent or sexual offenders

130

130.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (8) .

130.2

In section 244 (general duty to release prisoners)—

130.2.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “not subject to special provision for
release” ;

130.2.b

in subsection (1), after “243A,” insert  “ 244ZA ,” .

130.3

After section 244 insert—

############ Release on licence of certain violent or sexual offenders

130.3.244ZA

130.3.244ZA.1

As soon as a fixed-term prisoner to whom this section applies has served the
requisite custodial period for the purposes of this section, it is the duty of
the Secretary of State to release the prisoner on licence under this section.

130.3.244ZA.2

This section applies to a prisoner who—

130.3.244ZA.2.a

is serving a fixed-term sentence within subsection  (4) ,  (5)  or  (6) ,

130.3.244ZA.2.b

is not a prisoner to whom section 244A, 246A or 247A applies, and

130.3.244ZA.2.c

has not been released on licence (provision for the release of persons
recalled under section 254 being made by sections 255B and 255C).

130.3.244ZA.3

Subsection  (1)  does not apply if—

130.3.244ZA.3.a

the prisoner’s case has been referred to the Board under section  244ZB , or

130.3.244ZA.3.b

a notice given to the prisoner under subsection  (4)  of that section is in
force.

130.3.244ZA.4

A fixed-term sentence is within this subsection if it—

130.3.244ZA.4.a

is a sentence of—

130.3.244ZA.4.a.i

imprisonment, or

130.3.244ZA.4.a.ii

detention under section 96 of the PCC(S)A 2000 or section 262 of the
Sentencing Code,

130.3.244ZA.4.b

is for a term of 7 years or more,

130.3.244ZA.4.c

was imposed on or after 1 April 2020, and

130.3.244ZA.4.d

was imposed in respect of an offence—

130.3.244ZA.4.d.i

that is specified in Part 1 or 2 of Schedule 15, and

130.3.244ZA.4.d.ii

for which a sentence of life imprisonment could have been imposed (in the case
of an offender aged 21 or over) at the time when the actual sentence was
imposed.

130.3.244ZA.5

A fixed-term sentence is within this subsection if it—

130.3.244ZA.5.a

is a sentence of imprisonment or a sentence of detention under section 262 of
the Sentencing Code,

130.3.244ZA.5.b

is for a term of at least 4 years but less than 7 years,

130.3.244ZA.5.c

was imposed on or after the day on which section 130 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

130.3.244ZA.5.d

was imposed in respect of an offence within subsection  (7) .

130.3.244ZA.6

A fixed-term sentence is within this subsection if it—

130.3.244ZA.6.a

is a sentence of detention under section 250 of the Sentencing Code,

130.3.244ZA.6.b

is for a term of 7 years or more,

130.3.244ZA.6.c

was imposed on or after the day on which section 130 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

130.3.244ZA.6.d

was imposed in respect of an offence within subsection  (7) .

130.3.244ZA.7

An offence is within this subsection if—

130.3.244ZA.7.a

it is specified in any of the following paragraphs of Part 1 of Schedule 15—

130.3.244ZA.7.a.i

paragraph 1 (manslaughter);

130.3.244ZA.7.a.ii

paragraph 4 (soliciting murder);

130.3.244ZA.7.a.iii

paragraph 6 (wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm);

130.3.244ZA.7.a.iv

paragraph 64 (ancillary offences), so far as it relates to an offence listed
in paragraph 1, 4 or 6;

130.3.244ZA.7.a.v

paragraph 65 (inchoate offences in relation to murder), or

130.3.244ZA.7.b

it is an offence—

130.3.244ZA.7.b.i

that is specified in Part 2 of that Schedule (sexual offences), and

130.3.244ZA.7.b.ii

for which a sentence of life imprisonment could have been imposed (in the case
of an offender aged 21 or over) at the time when the actual sentence was
imposed.

130.3.244ZA.8

For the purposes of this section “ the requisite custodial period ” means—

130.3.244ZA.8.a

in relation to a prisoner serving one sentence, two-thirds of the prisoner’s
sentence, and

130.3.244ZA.8.b

in relation to a prisoner serving two or more concurrent or consecutive
sentences, the period determined under sections 263(2) and 264 (2B)  or  (2E)
.

130.4

In section 260(5) (powers and duties of Secretary of State that continue to
apply to prisoner removed from prison pending deportation), after “244,”
insert  “ 244ZA ,” .

130.5

In section 261(5)(b) (application of release provisions to returning deported
prisoner), after “244,” insert  “ 244ZA ,” .

130.6

In section 264(6) (consecutive terms of imprisonment: meaning of custodial
period), after paragraph  (ca)  (inserted by section 131) (but before the
final “and”), insert—

130.6.cb

in relation to a sentence in respect of which section  244ZA  applies to the
offender, two-thirds of the sentence,

.

130.7

In section 268(1A) (meaning of “ requisite custodial period ” in Chapter 6 of
Part 12), in paragraph (d), for “or section 244” substitute  “, 244 or  244ZA
” .

130.8

In Schedule 15 (specified offences for certain purposes to do with release of
offenders)—

130.8.a

in the heading, for “section” substitute  “sections  244ZA  and” ;

130.8.b

in the shoulder reference, for “Section” substitute  “Sections  244ZA  and” .

130.9

The Release of Prisoners (Alteration of Relevant Proportion of Sentence) Order
2020 ( S.I. 2020/158 ) is revoked.

###### Increase in requisite custodial period for certain other offenders of particular concern

131

131.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

131.2

In section 244A(6) (release on licence of prisoners serving sentence under
section 278 of the Sentencing Code etc: interpretation), in the definition of
“the requisite custodial period”—

131.2.a

in paragraph (a), after “one sentence” insert  “imposed before the day on
which section 131 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came
into force” ;

131.2.b

after that paragraph (but before the final “and”) insert—

in relation to a person serving one sentence imposed on or after that day,
two-thirds of the appropriate custodial term,

.

131.3

In section 264(6) (consecutive terms of imprisonment: meaning of custodial
period)—

131.3.a

in paragraph (c), after “Code” insert  “before the day on which section 131 of
the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force” ;

131.3.b

after that paragraph (but before the final “and”) insert—

131.3.b.ca

in relation to a sentence imposed under section 265 or 278 of the Sentencing
Code on or after the day on which section 131 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 came into force, two-thirds of the appropriate custodial
term determined by the court under that section,

.

###### Power to refer high-risk offenders to Parole Board in place of automatic release

132

132.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (10) .

132.2

In section 243A (release of prisoners serving sentences of less than 12
months), after subsection (2) insert—

132.2.2A

Subsection (2) does not apply if—

132.2.2A.a

the prisoner’s case has been referred to the Board under section  244ZB , or

132.2.2A.b

a notice given to the prisoner under subsection  (4)  of that section is in
force.

132.3

In section 244 (general duty to release prisoners), after subsection (1)
insert—

132.3.1ZA

Subsection (1) does not apply if—

132.3.1ZA.a

the prisoner’s case has been referred to the Board under section  244ZB , or

132.3.1ZA.b

a notice given to the prisoner under subsection  (4)  of that section is in
force.

132.4

After section 244 insert—

############ Referral of high-risk offenders to Parole Board in place of automatic release

132.4.244ZB

132.4.244ZB.1

This section applies to a prisoner who—

132.4.244ZB.1.a

would (but for anything done under this section and ignoring any possibility
of release under section 246 or 248) be, or become, entitled to be released on
licence under section 243A(2), 244(1) or 244ZA(1), and

132.4.244ZB.1.b

is (or will be) aged 18 or over on the first day on which the prisoner would
be so entitled.

132.4.244ZB.2

For the purposes of this section, the Secretary of State is of the requisite
opinion if the Secretary of State believes on reasonable grounds that the
prisoner would, if released, pose a significant risk to members of the public
of serious harm occasioned by the commission of any of the following offences—

132.4.244ZB.2.a

murder;

132.4.244ZB.2.b

specified offences, within the meaning of section 306 of the Sentencing Code.

132.4.244ZB.3

If the Secretary of State is of the requisite opinion, the Secretary of State
may refer the prisoner’s case to the Board.

132.4.244ZB.4

Before referring the prisoner’s case to the Board, the Secretary of State must
notify the prisoner in writing of the Secretary of State’s intention to do so
(and the reference may be made only if the notice is in force).

132.4.244ZB.5

A notice given under subsection  (4)  must take effect before the prisoner
becomes entitled as mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) .

132.4.244ZB.6

A notice given under subsection  (4)  must explain—

132.4.244ZB.6.a

the effect of the notice (including its effect under section 243A (2A) , 244
(1ZA)  or  244ZA (3) ),

132.4.244ZB.6.b

why the Secretary of State is of the requisite opinion, and

132.4.244ZB.6.c

the prisoner’s right to make representations (see subsection  (12) ).

132.4.244ZB.7

A notice given under subsection  (4) —

132.4.244ZB.7.a

takes effect at whichever is the earlier of—

132.4.244ZB.7.a.i

the time when it is received by the prisoner, and

132.4.244ZB.7.a.ii

the time when it would ordinarily be received by the prisoner, and

132.4.244ZB.7.b

remains in force until—

132.4.244ZB.7.b.i

the Secretary of State refers the prisoner’s case to the Board under this
section, or

132.4.244ZB.7.b.ii

the notice is revoked.

132.4.244ZB.8

The Secretary of State—

132.4.244ZB.8.a

may revoke a notice given under subsection  (4) , and

132.4.244ZB.8.b

must do so if the Secretary of State is no longer of the requisite opinion.

132.4.244ZB.9

If a notice given under subsection  (4)  is in force and the prisoner would
but for the notice have become entitled as mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) —

132.4.244ZB.9.a

the prisoner may apply to the High Court on the ground that the prisoner’s
release has been delayed by the notice for longer than is reasonably necessary
in order for the Secretary of State to complete the referral of the prisoner’s
case to the Board, and

132.4.244ZB.9.b

the High Court, if satisfied that that ground is made out, must by order
revoke the notice.

132.4.244ZB.10

At any time before the Board disposes of a reference under this section, the
Secretary of State—

132.4.244ZB.10.a

may rescind the reference, and

132.4.244ZB.10.b

must do so if the Secretary of State is no longer of the requisite opinion.

132.4.244ZB.11

If the reference is rescinded, the prisoner is no longer to be treated as one
whose case has been referred to the Board under this section (but this does
not have the effect of reviving the notice under subsection  (4) ).

132.4.244ZB.12

The prisoner may make representations to the Secretary of State about the
referral, or proposed referral, of the prisoner’s case at any time after being
notified under subsection  (4)  and before the Board disposes of any ensuing
reference under this section.

But the Secretary of State is not required to delay the referral of the
prisoner’s case in order to give an opportunity for such representations to be
made.

############ Proceedings following reference under section 

132.4.244ZC

132.4.244ZC.1

This section applies to a prisoner whose case has been referred to the Parole
Board under section  244ZB .

132.4.244ZC.2

If, in disposing of that reference or any subsequent reference of the
prisoner’s case to the Board under this subsection, the Board does not direct
the prisoner’s release, it is the duty of the Secretary of State to refer the
prisoner’s case to the Board again no later than the first anniversary of the
disposal.

132.4.244ZC.3

It is the duty of the Secretary of State to release the prisoner on licence as
soon as—

132.4.244ZC.3.a

the prisoner has served the requisite custodial period, and

132.4.244ZC.3.b

the Board has directed the release of the prisoner under this section.

132.4.244ZC.4

The Board must not give a direction under subsection  (3)  in disposing of the
reference under section  244ZB  unless the Board is satisfied that it is no
longer necessary for the protection of the public that the prisoner should be
confined.

132.4.244ZC.5

The Board must not subsequently give a direction under subsection  (3)
unless—

132.4.244ZC.5.a

the Secretary of State has referred the prisoner’s case to the Board under
subsection  (2) , and

132.4.244ZC.5.b

the Board is satisfied that it is no longer necessary for the protection of
the public that the prisoner should be confined.

132.4.244ZC.6

For the purposes of this section, the “ requisite custodial period ” means the
period ending with the day on which the prisoner would have become entitled as
mentioned in section  244ZB (1)(a) .

132.5

In section 246(4) (exceptions from power to release early subject to curfew),
after paragraph (f) insert—

132.5.fa

the prisoner’s case has been referred to the Board under section  244ZB ,

132.5.fb

a notice given to the prisoner under subsection  (4)  of that section is in
force,

.

132.6

In section 255A(2) (duty to consider suitability for automatic release
following recall of certain prisoners) (as amended by the Counter-Terrorism
and Sentencing Act 2021), for “or a serious terrorism prisoner” substitute  “,
a serious terrorism prisoner or a prisoner whose case was referred to the
Board under section  244ZB ” .

132.7

In section 255C(1) (prisoners whose release after recall is not automatic),
for the words from “who” to the end substitute

—

132.7.a

whose suitability for automatic release does not have to be considered under
section 255A(2), or

132.7.b

who is not considered suitable for automatic release.

132.8

In section 260(5) (powers and duties of Secretary of State that continue to
apply to prisoner removed from prison pending deportation), after “244,”
insert  “ 244ZB ,” .

132.9

In section 261(5)(b) (application of release provisions to returning deported
prisoner), after “244,” insert  “ 244ZC ,” .

132.10

In section 268(1A) (meaning of “ requisite custodial period ” in Chapter 6 of
Part 12), after paragraph (c) insert—

132.10.ca

in relation to a prisoner whose case has been referred to the Parole Board
under section  244ZB , the requisite custodial period for the purposes of
section  244ZC ;

.

132.11

In Schedule 1 to the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997—

132.11.a

in paragraph 8(2)(a) (provisions relating to release continuing to apply to
prisoner transferred from England and Wales to Scotland), for “, 244,”
substitute  “to” ;

132.11.b

in paragraph 9(2)(a) (provisions relating to release continuing to apply to
prisoner transferred from England and Wales to Northern Ireland), for “, 244,”
substitute  “to” .

132.12

In section 128 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act
2012 (power to alter test for release on licence at direction of Parole
Board)—

132.12.a

in subsection (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

132.12.a.bza

a prisoner whose case has been referred to the Parole Board under section
244ZB  of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (power to refer to Parole Board in
place of automatic release),

;

132.12.b

in subsection (3), before paragraph (ab) insert—

132.12.b.aaa

amend section  244ZC  of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (proceedings following
reference under section  244ZB  of that Act),

.

###### Power to make provision for reconsideration and setting aside of Parole Board decisions

133

In section 239 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (the Parole Board), after
subsection (5) insert—

133.5A

Rules under subsection (5) may, in particular, make provision—

133.5A.a

requiring or permitting the Board to make provisional decisions;

133.5A.b

about the circumstances—

133.5A.b.i

in which the Board must or may reconsider such decisions;

133.5A.b.ii

in which such decisions become final;

133.5A.c

conferring power on the Board to set aside a decision or direction that is
within subsection (5B),

and any such provision may relate to cases referred to the Board under this
Chapter or under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the 1997 Act.

133.5B

The following are within this subsection—

133.5B.a

a direction given by the Board for, or a decision made by it not to direct,
the release of a prisoner which the Board determines it would not have given
or made but for an error of law or fact, or

133.5B.b

a direction given by the Board for the release of a prisoner which the Board
determines it would not have given if—

133.5B.b.i

information that was not available to the Board when the direction was given
had been so available, or

133.5B.b.ii

a change in circumstances relating to the prisoner that occurred after the
direction was given had occurred before it was given.

133.5C

Provision made by virtue of subsection  (5A)(c) —

133.5C.a

may not confer power on the Board to set aside a direction for the release of
a prisoner at any time when the prisoner has already been released pursuant to
that direction, but

133.5C.b

may make provision for the suspension of any requirement under this Chapter or
under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the 1997 Act for the Secretary of State to give
effect to a direction of the Board to release a prisoner, pending
consideration by the Board as to whether to set it aside.

###### Responsibility for setting licence conditions for fixed-term prisoners

134

134.1

Section 250 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (licence conditions for fixed-
term prisoners) is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  and  (3) .

134.2

For subsections (5A) to (5B) substitute—

134.2.5A

The Secretary of State must not—

134.2.5A.a

include a condition referred to in subsection (4)(b)(ii) in a licence within
subsection (5B), either on release or subsequently, or

134.2.5A.b

vary or cancel any such condition included in such a licence,

unless the Board directs the Secretary of State to do so (and must, if the
Board so directs, include, vary or cancel such a condition).

134.2.5B

A licence is within this subsection if it is granted to a relevant prisoner—

134.2.5B.a

on their initial release in a case where that release is at the direction of
the Board, or

134.2.5B.b

on their release after recall to prison in a case where that release is at the
direction of the Board (see sections 255B(5), 255C(5) and 256A(5)).

134.2.5C

In subsection (5B), “ relevant prisoner ” means a prisoner to whom section
244ZC, 244A, 246A, 247 or 247A applies (or applied) for the purposes of their
initial release.

134.3

Omit subsection (9).

134.4

Subsection  (5)  applies to any condition of a licence that is in force
immediately before commencement if—

134.4.a

the inclusion of the condition required a direction of the Board, but

134.4.b

no such direction was given.

134.5

The condition is to be treated, for the purposes of any time after
commencement, as it if was included in the licence at the direction of the
Board.

134.6

Nothing in this section except subsection  (5)  affects the validity of any
condition included in a licence before commencement.

134.7

In this section—

“ the Board ” means the Parole Board; “ commencement ” means the coming into
force of this section; “ licence ” means a licence under Chapter 6 of Part 12
of the Criminal Justice Act 2003.

###### Repeal of uncommenced provision for establishment of recall adjudicators

135

In the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015, omit the following (which make
provision for recall adjudicators that has not been commenced)—

135.a

sections 8 to 10, and

135.b

Schedule 3.

###### Release at direction of Parole Board after recall: fixed-term prisoners

136

136.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

136.2

In section 255B (automatic release), after subsection (4) insert—

136.2.4A

The Board must not give a direction for P’s release on a reference under
subsection (4) unless the Board is satisfied that it is not necessary for the
protection of the public that P should remain in prison until the end of the
period mentioned in subsection (1)(b).

136.3

In section 255C (fixed-term prisoners not suitable for automatic release),
after subsection (4) insert—

136.3.4A

The Board must not give a direction for P’s release on a reference under
subsection (4) unless the Board is satisfied that it is not necessary for the
protection of the public that P should remain in prison.

136.4

Omit section 256 (power of Board to fix date for future release).

136.5

In section 256A (further review)—

136.5.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

136.5.a.1

This section applies to a person if—

136.5.a.1.a

there has been a previous reference of the person’s case to the Board under
section 255C(4) or this section, and

136.5.a.1.b

the person has not been released.

136.5.a.1A

The Secretary of State must refer the person’s case back to the Board not
later than the first anniversary of the most recent determination by the Board
not to release the person (the “review date”).

136.5.a.1B

Subsection  (1A)  does not apply where the review date is 13 months or less
before the date on which the person is required to be released by the
Secretary of State.

;

136.5.b

in subsection (2), for “that anniversary” substitute  “the review date” ;

136.5.c

in subsection (3), for “a person’s” substitute  “the person’s” ;

136.5.d

for subsections (4) and (5) substitute—

136.5.d.4

The Board must not give a direction for a person’s release on a reference
under subsection  (1A)  or (2) unless the Board is satisfied that it is not
necessary for the protection of the public that the person should remain in
prison.

136.5.d.5

Where on a reference under subsection  (1A)  or (2) the Board directs a
person’s release on licence under this Chapter, the Secretary of State must
give effect to the direction.

136.6

After section 256A insert—

############ Release after recall where further sentence being served

136.6.256AZA

136.6.256AZA.1

This section applies where a person (“the offender”) is serving two or more
terms of imprisonment.

136.6.256AZA.2

Nothing in sections 255A to 256A requires the Secretary of State to release
the offender in respect of any of the terms unless and until the Secretary of
State is required to release the offender in respect of each of the others.

136.6.256AZA.3

Nothing in sections 255A to 256A requires the Secretary of State to refer the
offender’s case to the Board in respect of any of the terms unless and until
the Secretary of State is required either—

136.6.256AZA.3.a

to refer the offender’s case to the Board, or

136.6.256AZA.3.b

to release the offender,

in respect of each of the others.

136.6.256AZA.4

If the offender is released on licence under section 255B, 255C or 256A, the
offender is to be on licence—

136.6.256AZA.4.a

until the last date on which the offender is required to be on licence in
respect of any of the terms, and

136.6.256AZA.4.b

subject to such conditions as are required by this Chapter in respect of any
of the sentences.

136.6.256AZA.5

This section applies to a determinate sentence of detention under any of the
following provisions as it applies to a term of imprisonment—

136.6.256AZA.5.a

section 91 or 96 of the PCC(S)A 2000;

136.6.256AZA.5.b

section 250, 252A, 254, 262, 265, 266 or 268A of the Sentencing Code;

136.6.256AZA.5.c

section 226A, 226B, 227, 228 or 236A of this Act.

136.7

In Schedule 20A (application of Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the 2003 Act to pre-4
April 2005 cases), omit paragraph 6(5) (certain determinations to be treated
as made under section 256(1)).

###### Power to change test for release of fixed-term prisoners following recall

137

137.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

137.2

After section 256AZA insert—

############ Power to change test for release following recall

137.2.256AZB

137.2.256AZB.1

The Secretary of State may by order change—

137.2.256AZB.1.a

the test to be applied by the Secretary of State in deciding under section
255A whether a person is suitable for automatic release;

137.2.256AZB.1.b

the test to be applied by the Secretary of State in deciding whether to
release a person under section 255B(2) or 255C(2);

137.2.256AZB.1.c

the test to be applied by the Board in deciding whether to give a direction
for a person’s release when determining a reference under section 255B(4),
255C(4) or 256A(1A) or (2).

137.2.256AZB.2

An order under subsection (1) may in particular—

137.2.256AZB.2.a

apply to a person recalled before the day on which the order comes into force
(as well as to a person recalled on or after that day);

137.2.256AZB.2.b

amend this Chapter.

137.3

In section 330(5)(a) (orders subject to affirmative procedure), at the
appropriate place insert—

section 256AZB,

.

###### Imprisonment for public protection etc: duty to refer person released on licence to Parole Board

138

138.1

Section 31A of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 (imprisonment or detention for
public protection: termination of licences) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (6) .

138.2

In subsection (2)(a), after “Chapter” insert  “(whether or not the prisoner
has subsequently been recalled to prison under section 32)” .

138.3

For subsection (3) substitute—

138.3.3

Where—

138.3.3.a

the prisoner has been released on licence under this Chapter (whether or not
the prisoner has subsequently been recalled to prison under section 32);

138.3.3.b

the qualifying period has expired; and

138.3.3.c

if the Secretary of State has made a previous reference of the prisoner’s case
under this subsection, the period of twelve months beginning with the day of
the disposal of that reference has expired,

the Secretary of State must refer the prisoner’s case to the Parole Board
under this subsection.

138.4

In subsection (4)—

138.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “an application” substitute  “a
reference” , and

138.4.b

in paragraph (b), for “application” substitute  “reference” .

138.5

After subsection (4) insert—

138.5.4A

A reference under subsection (3) must be made, and a reference under that
subsection must be determined by the Parole Board under subsection (4), even
if at the time of the reference or determination the prisoner is in prison
having been recalled under section 32.

138.5.4B

If at the time of the determination the prisoner is in prison having been
recalled under section 32—

138.5.4B.a

subsection (2) does not apply, and

138.5.4B.b

subsection (4)(a) has effect as if it required the Parole Board—

138.5.4B.b.i

to determine whether it is satisfied that it is not necessary for the
protection of the public for the prisoner, when released, to be released on
licence in respect of the preventative sentence or sentences, and

138.5.4B.b.ii

if it is so satisfied, to direct the Secretary of State accordingly.

138.5.4C

Where the Parole Board gives a direction under subsection (4B)(b)(ii)—

138.5.4C.a

if at any time the Board directs the prisoner’s release under section 28, that
section has effect in relation to the prisoner as if, in subsection (5), for
“to release him on licence” there were substituted  “to release the prisoner
unconditionally” , and

138.5.4C.b

if at any time the Board directs the prisoner’s release under section 32, that
section has effect in relation to the prisoner as if, in subsection (5), for
“immediate release on licence” there were substituted  “immediate
unconditional release” .

138.6

In subsection (5), in the definition of “the qualifying period”, after “on
licence” insert  “(whether or not the prisoner has subsequently been recalled
to prison under section 32)” .

138.7

Subsection  (8)  applies to an application made by a person under section
31A(3) of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 before this section comes into force.

138.8

If the application has not been determined when this section comes into force,
subsections (4) to (4C) of section 31A of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 apply
in relation to it as if it were a reference of the person’s case by the
Secretary of State to the Parole Board under subsection (3) of that section.

138.9

Subsection  (10)  applies if a person remains on licence under Chapter 2 of
Part 2 of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997, or remains subject to release on
licence under that Chapter, following—

138.9.a

the disposal before this section comes into force of the person’s application
to the Parole Board under section 31A(3) of that Act, or

138.9.b

the disposal under subsection (4) of section 31A of that Act, as it has effect
by virtue of subsection  (8)  of this section, of the person’s application to
the Parole Board under subsection (3) of that section.

138.10

Subsection (3) of section 31A of the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997 applies in
relation to the person as if the application had been a reference of the
person’s case by the Secretary of State to the Parole Board under that
subsection.

###### Release at direction of Parole Board: timing

139

139.1

In the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997—

139.1.a

in section 32(5) (duty to release life prisoner after recall), omit
“immediate”;

139.1.b

after section 32ZA insert—

############## Release at the direction of Parole Board

############### Release at direction of Parole Board: timing

139.1.b.32ZB

139.1.b.32ZB.1

This section applies where the Parole Board directs the release of a life
prisoner under section 28 or 32.

139.1.b.32ZB.2

The Secretary of State must give effect to the direction of the Parole Board
as soon as is reasonably practicable in all the circumstances including, in
particular, the need to make arrangements in connection with any conditions
that are to be included in the life prisoner’s licence under this Chapter.

139.1.b.32ZB.3

The duty under subsection (2) is subject to provision made pursuant to section
239(5C)(b) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (provision in Parole Board rules
in relation to setting aside of release directions).

139.2

In the Criminal Justice Act 2003—

139.2.a

in section 255B(5) (automatic release after recall), omit “immediate”;

139.2.b

in section 255C(5) (release after recall of fixed-term prisoner not suitable
for automatic release), omit “immediate”;

139.2.c

after section 256AZB insert—

############## Release at the direction of the Board

############### Release at direction of Parole Board: timing

139.2.c.256AZC

139.2.c.256AZC.1

This section applies where the Board directs the release of a person on
licence under this Chapter.

139.2.c.256AZC.2

The Secretary of State must give effect to the direction of the Parole Board
as soon as is reasonably practicable in all the circumstances including, in
particular, the need to make arrangements in connection with any conditions
that are to be included in the person’s licence under this Chapter.

139.2.c.256AZC.3

The duty under subsection (2) is subject to provision made pursuant to section
239(5C)(b).

##### Driving disqualification: extension in connection with custodial sentence

###### Extension of driving disqualification where custodial sentence imposed: England and Wales

140

140.1

In section 35A(4) of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (extension of driving
disqualification period where custodial sentence also imposed)—

140.1.a

in paragraph (e), after “custodial sentence,” insert  “but the sentence is not
within section 247A(2A) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (sentences for
terrorist offenders in respect of which no early release possible),” ;

140.1.b

in paragraph (f), after “custodial sentence,” insert  “but the sentence is not
within section 247A(2A) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003,” ;

140.1.c

after paragraph (f) insert—

140.1.c.fza

in a case that would fall within paragraph (e) or (f) but for the fact that
the custodial sentence falls within section 247A(2A) of the Criminal Justice
Act 2003, a period equal to the term imposed under section 266(a) or 279(a) or
(as the case may be) section 254(a) of the Sentencing Code;

;

140.1.d

in paragraph (fa)—

140.1.d.i

after “under section” insert  “252A,” ;

140.1.d.ii

for “half” substitute  “two-thirds” ;

140.1.d.iii

after “pursuant to section” insert  “252A(4)(a),” ;

140.1.e

after paragraph (fa) insert—

140.1.e.fb

in the case of a sentence under section 268A or 282A of that Code (serious
terrorism sentences), a period equal to the term imposed by the court pursuant
to section 268C(2) or 282C(2) of that Code;

140.1.e.fc

in the case of a sentence in respect of which section 244ZA of the Criminal
Justice Act 2003 applies to the offender, a period equal to two-thirds of the
sentence;

140.1.e.fd

in any other case where section 247A of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 applies
to the offender in respect of the custodial sentence, a period equal to two-
thirds of the sentence;

.

140.2

In section 166 of the Sentencing Code (extension of driving disqualification
period where custodial sentence also imposed)—

140.2.a

in the table in subsection (5)—

140.2.a.i

in entries 3 and 5, in the third column, for “half” substitute  “two-thirds
of” ;

140.2.a.ii

after entry 6A insert—

6B a custodial sentence in respect of which section 244ZA of the Criminal
Justice Act 2003 applies to the offender two-thirds of the sentence 6C a
custodial sentence not within any of the preceding entries in respect of which
section 247A of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 applies to the offender two-
thirds of the sentence

;

140.2.b

after subsection (5) insert—

140.2.b.5A

In the case of a sentence specified in entry 2, 4 or 6 of column 2 in the
table which is within section 247A(2A) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, the
corresponding entry in column 3 of the table is to be read with the omission
of “two-thirds of”.

140.3

The amendments made by subsection (2)(a)(i) do not have effect in relation to
an offender who—

140.3.a

is sentenced before the coming into force of section 107 (increase in
requisite custodial period for certain offenders of particular concern), and

140.3.b

on being sentenced, will be a prisoner to whom section 244A of the Criminal
Justice Act 2003 (release on licence of prisoners serving sentence under 278
of the Sentencing Code etc) applies.

140.4

In the Sentencing Act 2020—

140.4.a

in section 417 (commencement of prospective amendments), in subsection (3)(a),
after “40,” insert  “ 40A ,” ;

140.4.b

in Schedule 22, after paragraph 40 (prospective amendment of section 166(5) of
the Sentencing Code) insert—

140.4.b.40A

In section 166 (5A)  (adaptation of disqualification period in certain
terrorist cases), in paragraph (a), omit “, 4”;

140.4.c

also in Schedule 22, in paragraph 102 (prospective amendment of section 35A of
the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988)—

140.4.c.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (a), omit “as amended by paragraph 102(2) of
Schedule 24”;

140.4.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

140.4.c.ii.aa

in paragraph  (fza)  omit “266(a) or”;

;

140.4.c.iii

at the end insert—

140.4.c.iii.c

in paragraph  (fb)  omit “268A or” and “268C(2) or”.

140.5

In Schedule 22 to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, omit paragraph 34 (power
to make transitional provision in relation to section 35A of the Road Traffic
Offenders Act 1988).

###### Increase in driving disqualification periods under certain existing orders: England and Wales

141

141.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

141.1.a

a driving disqualification order was made in accordance with an extended
disqualification provision,

141.1.b

the custodial sentence as a result of which the extended disqualification
provision applied was imposed before the day on which section 140 came into
force,

141.1.c

section 244ZA (inserted by section 130) or 247A of the Criminal Justice Act
2003 applies to the offender in respect of the sentence (the offender, in
particular, not having been released in respect of the sentence), and

141.1.d

the appropriate extension period for the purposes of the order would have been
longer had the sentence been imposed on the day on which section 140 came into
force.

141.2

The order has effect, on and after the day on which section 140 comes into
force, as if the period of disqualification included an appropriate extension
period of such length as it would have included had the custodial sentence
been imposed on that day.

141.3

For the purposes of this section, the “extended disqualification provisions”
are—

141.3.a

section 35A of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988,

141.3.b

section 147A of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000, and

141.3.c

section 166 of the Sentencing Code,

and “appropriate extension period”, “driving disqualification order” and
“custodial sentence” are to be read in accordance with the extended
disqualification provision concerned.

141.4

In the application of this section before section 130 comes into force, the
reference in subsection  (1)(c)  to section 244ZA of the Criminal Justice Act
2003 is to be read as a reference to section 244 of that Act as modified by
the Release of Prisoners (Alteration of Relevant Proportion of Sentence) Order
2020 ( S.I. 2020/158 ).

141.5

In the application of this section in relation to a custodial sentence imposed
under a provision repealed by the Sentencing Act 2020, the references to the
sentence in subsections  (1)(d)  and  (2)  are to be read as referring to an
equivalent sentence imposed under the corresponding provision of the
Sentencing Code.

###### Extension of driving disqualification where custodial sentence imposed: Scotland

142

142.1

Section 35C of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (extension of driving
disqualification period where custodial sentence also imposed) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

142.2

In subsection (4)—

142.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

142.2.a.aa

in the case of a person serving a serious terrorism sentence, a period equal
to the appropriate custodial term;

142.2.a.ab

in the case of a person serving an extended sentence that falls within section
1AB(2A) of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 (“ the
1993 Act ”), a period equal to the custodial term;

142.2.a.ac

in the case of a person serving an extended sentence in respect of which
section 1AB(3) to (5) of the 1993 Act applies to the person, a period equal to
two-thirds of the custodial term;

;

142.2.b

omit paragraph (b);

142.2.c

in paragraph (c)—

142.2.c.i

for “an” substitute  “any other” ;

142.2.c.ii

for “confinement” substitute  “custodial” ;

142.2.d

after paragraph (c) insert—

142.2.d.ca

in the case of a person serving a sentence imposed under section 205ZC of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”), a period equal to
two-thirds of the appropriate custodial term;

142.2.d.cb

in the case of a person serving any other sentence of imprisonment in respect
of which section 1AB of the 1993 Act applies to the person, a period equal to
two-thirds of the sentence;

.

142.3

In subsection (7), for the words from “a different” to the end substitute  “a
reference in section 1(1) or (3) or 1AB(3)(a) of the 1993 Act to a particular
proportion of a prisoner’s sentence to be construed as a reference to some
other proportion (“the new proportion”) specified in the order” .

142.4

In subsection (8), for “(4)(b) and (c)” substitute  “(4)(ac), (c), (ca), (cb)
or (d)” .

142.5

In subsection (10)—

142.5.a

in the definition of “amending order”, for “section 7 of the 2007 Act”
substitute  “section 27(2)(b) of the 1993 Act” ;

142.5.b

after that definition insert—

“appropriate custodial term”— in relation to a serious terrorism sentence,
means the term imposed under subsection (5)(a) or (as the case may be) (7)(a)
of section 205ZA of the 1995 Act; in relation to a sentence imposed under
section 205ZC of the 1995 Act, means the term imposed under subsection (3)(a)
or (as the case may be) (4)(a) of that section;

;

142.5.c

in the definition of “confinement term”—

142.5.c.i

for “confinement” substitute  “custodial” ;

142.5.c.ii

for “Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”)” substitute
“1995 Act” ;

142.5.d

omit the definitions of “custody and community prisoner” and “custody part”;

142.5.e

in the definition of “life prisoner”, for “section 4 of the 2007 Act”
substitute  “section 2(1) of the 1993 Act” ;

142.5.f

for the definition of “punishment part” substitute—

“ punishment part ”, in relation to a life sentence, means the punishment part
of the sentence as specified in an order mentioned in section 2(2) of the 1993
Act;

;

142.5.g

in the definition of “sentence of imprisonment”, in paragraph (b), after
“205,” insert  “205ZA(7), 205ZC(4),” ;

142.5.h

after the definition of “sentence of imprisonment” insert—

“ serious terrorism sentence ” means a sentence imposed under section 205ZA of
the 1995 Act;

.

142.6

Section 248D of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (extension of
driving disqualification period where custodial sentence also imposed) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (7)  to  (10) .

142.7

In subsection (4)—

142.7.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

142.7.a.aa

in the case of a person serving a serious terrorism sentence, a period equal
to the appropriate custodial term;

142.7.a.ab

in the case of a person serving an extended sentence that falls within section
1AB(2A) of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 (“ the
1993 Act ”), a period equal to the custodial term;

142.7.a.ac

in the case of a person serving an extended sentence in respect of which
section 1AB(3) to (5) of the 1993 Act applies to the person, a period equal to
two-thirds of the custodial term;

;

142.7.b

omit paragraph (b);

142.7.c

in paragraph (c)—

142.7.c.i

for “an” substitute  “any other” ;

142.7.c.ii

for “confinement” substitute  “custodial” ;

142.7.d

after paragraph (c) insert—

142.7.d.ca

in the case of a person serving a sentence imposed under section 205ZC of the
Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”), a period equal to
two-thirds of the appropriate custodial term;

142.7.d.cb

in the case of a person serving any other sentence of imprisonment in respect
of which section 1AB of the 1993 Act applies to the person, a period equal to
two-thirds of the sentence;

.

142.8

In subsection (7), for the words from “a different” to the end substitute  “a
reference in section 1(1) or (3), 1AA(1) or 1AB(3)(a) of the 1993 Act to a
particular proportion of a prisoner’s sentence to be construed as a reference
to some other proportion (“the new proportion”) specified in the order” .

142.9

In subsection (8), for “(4)(b) and (c)” substitute  “(4)(ac), (c), (ca), (cb)
or (d)” .

142.10

In subsection (10)—

142.10.a

in the definition of “amending order”, for “section 7 of the 2007 Act”
substitute  “section 27(2)(b) of the 1993 Act” ;

142.10.b

after that definition insert—

“appropriate custodial term”— in relation to a serious terrorism sentence,
means the term imposed under subsection (5)(a) or (as the case may be) (7)(a)
of section 205ZA of the 1995 Act; in relation to a sentence imposed under
section 205ZC of the 1995 Act, means the term imposed under subsection (3)(a)
or (as the case may be) (4)(a) of that section;

;

142.10.c

in the definition of “confinement term”—

142.10.c.i

for “confinement” substitute  “custodial” ;

142.10.c.ii

for “Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”)” substitute
“1995 Act” ;

142.10.d

omit the definitions of “custody and community prisoner” and “custody part”;

142.10.e

in the definition of “life prisoner”, for “section 4 of the 2007 Act”
substitute  “section 2(1) of the 1993 Act” ;

142.10.f

for the definition of “punishment part” substitute—

“ punishment part ”, in relation to a life sentence, means the punishment part
of the sentence as specified in an order mentioned in section 2(2) of the 1993
Act;

;

142.10.g

in the definition of “sentence of imprisonment”, in paragraph (b), after
“205,” insert  “205ZA(7), 205ZC(4),” ;

142.10.h

after the definition of “sentence of imprisonment” insert—

“ serious terrorism sentence ” means a sentence imposed under section 205ZA of
the 1995 Act;

.

142.11

In Schedule 22 to the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, omit paragraphs 35 and 36
(powers to make transitional provision in relation to section 35C of the Road
Traffic Offenders Act 1988).

###### Increase in driving disqualification periods under certain existing orders: Scotland

143

143.1

Subsection  (2)  applies where—

143.1.a

a driving disqualification order was made in accordance with an extended
disqualification provision,

143.1.b

the sentence of imprisonment as a result of which the extended
disqualification provision applied was imposed before the day on which section
142 came into force,

143.1.c

section 1AB of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993
applies to the offender in respect of the sentence (the offender, in
particular, not having been released in respect of the sentence), and

143.1.d

the appropriate extension period for the purposes of the order would have been
longer had the sentence been imposed on the day on which section 142 came into
force.

143.2

The order has effect, on and after the day on which section 142 comes into
force, as if the period of disqualification included an appropriate extension
period of such length as it would have included had the sentence of
imprisonment been imposed on that day.

143.3

In this section—

“ driving disqualification order ” means an order under— section 34 or 35 of
the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 (“ the 1988 Act ”), or section 248 or 248A
of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 (“ the 1995 Act ”); “ an
extended disqualification provision ” means— section 35C of the 1988 Act (in
the case of an order under section 34 or 35 of that Act), or section 248D of
the 1995 Act (in the case of an order under section 248 or 248A of the 1995
Act); “appropriate extension period” and “sentence of imprisonment” are to be
read in accordance with the extended disqualification provision concerned.

##### Minor amendments

###### Calculation of period before release or Parole Board referral where multiple sentences being served

144

144.1

In the Crime (Sentences) Act 1997—

144.1.a

in section 28(7) (time of Parole Board referral), omit paragraph (c) (and the
“and” immediately before it);

144.1.b

before section 34 insert—

############## Life prisoners also serving fixed-term sentence

144.1.b.33A

144.1.b.33A.1

This section applies where a life prisoner is also serving one or more
sentences by virtue of which the fixed-term provisions apply to the offender.

144.1.b.33A.2

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to release the
prisoner unless the Secretary of State is also required by the fixed-term
provisions to release the prisoner.

144.1.b.33A.3

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to refer the
prisoner’s case to the Parole Board unless the Secretary of State is also
required by the fixed-term provisions to—

144.1.b.33A.3.a

refer the prisoner’s case to the Board, or

144.1.b.33A.3.b

release the prisoner.

144.1.b.33A.4

Subsection  (3)  does not apply to a reference by the Secretary of State under
section 31A(3).

144.1.b.33A.5

The fact that the prisoner is serving a life sentence is to be ignored in
determining, for the purposes of subsections  (2)  and  (3) , what the fixed-
term provisions require.

144.1.b.33A.6

In this section “ the fixed-term provisions ” means Chapter 6 of Part 12 of
the Criminal Justice Act 2003.

;

144.1.c

in section 34 (interpretation), omit subsection (4).

144.2

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended in accordance with subsections  (3)
to  (11) .

144.3

In section 243A(3) (requisite custodial period before release in short
sentence), for “264(2)” substitute  “264 (2B)  or  (2E) ” .

144.4

In section 244(3)(d) (usual requisite custodial period before release), for
“264(2)” substitute  “264 (2B)  or  (2E) ” .

144.5

In section 244A(6) (periods before release or referral in sentences for
offenders of particular concern), in paragraph (b) of the definition of
“requisite custodial period”, for “264(2)” substitute  “264 (2D) ” .

144.6

In section 246A(8) (periods before release or referral in extended sentences),
in paragraph (b) of the definition of “requisite custodial period”, for
“264(2)” substitute  “264 (2B) ,  (2D)  or  (2E) ” .

144.7

In section 247(7) (periods before release in old extended sentences), in
paragraph (b) of the definition of “requisite custodial period”, for “264(2)”
substitute  “264 (2B)  or  (2E) ” .

144.8

In section 247A(8) (release of terrorist prisoners: definitions), in paragraph
(c) of the definition of “requisite custodial period”, for “264(2)” substitute
“264 (2B) ,  (2D)  or  (2E) ” .

144.9

In section 263 (release in case of concurrent sentences), in subsection (2),
after paragraph (a) insert—

144.9.aza

nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to refer the
offender’s case to the Board in respect of any of the terms unless and until
the Secretary of State is required either—

144.9.aza.i

to refer the offender’s case to the Board, or

144.9.aza.ii

to release the offender,

in respect of each of the others,

.

144.10

In section 264 (release in case of consecutive sentences)—

144.10.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

144.10.a.2A

Subsection  (2B)  applies if each of the terms of imprisonment is subject to
initial automatic release.

144.10.a.2B

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to release the
offender until the offender has served a period equal to the aggregate of the
length of the minimum custodial periods in each of the terms.

144.10.a.2C

Subsections  (2D)  and  (2E)  apply if at least one of the terms of
imprisonment is subject to initial Parole Board referral.

144.10.a.2D

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to refer the
offender’s case to the Board until the offender has served a period equal to
the aggregate length of the minimum custodial periods in each of the terms.

144.10.a.2E

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to release the
offender until—

144.10.a.2E.a

the Board has directed the release of the offender, or

144.10.a.2E.b

the offender has served a period equal to the aggregate length of—

144.10.a.2E.b.i

the minimum custodial periods in each of the terms (if any) that is subject to
initial automatic release, and

144.10.a.2E.b.ii

the maximum custodial periods in each of the terms that is subject to initial
Parole Board referral.

144.10.a.2F

For the purposes of subsections  (2A)  to  (2E) —

144.10.a.2F.a

a term of imprisonment is “subject to initial automatic release” if it is a
sentence in respect of which—

144.10.a.2F.a.i

section 243A(1), 244(1), 244ZA(1), 246A(2) or 247 applies to the offender, or

144.10.a.2F.a.ii

section 247A applies, but subsections (3) to (5) of that section do not apply,
to the offender;

144.10.a.2F.b

a term of imprisonment is “subject to initial Parole Board referral” if it is
a sentence in respect of which—

144.10.a.2F.b.i

section 244ZC, 244A, 246A(3) to (7) or 247A(3) to (5) applies to the offender,
or

144.10.a.2F.b.ii

a notice under section  244ZB (4)  is in force.

;

144.10.b

in subsections (6) and (6A), in the words before paragraph (a), before
“custodial” insert  “minimum” ;

144.10.c

after subsection (6A) insert—

144.10.c.6B

In this section “ maximum custodial period ” means—

144.10.c.6B.a

in relation to a sentence imposed under section 226A, 226B, 227, 228 or 236A
of this Act or section 252A, 254, 265, 266, 278 or 279 of the Sentencing Code,
the “appropriate custodial term” determined by the court under that section;

144.10.c.6B.b

in relation to any other sentence, the term of the sentence.

144.11

After section 267B insert—

############ Fixed-term prisoners also serving life sentence

144.11.267C

144.11.267C.1

This section applies where a fixed-term prisoner is also serving one or more
sentences by virtue of which the life sentence provisions apply to the
offender.

144.11.267C.2

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to release the
prisoner unless the Secretary of State is also required by the life sentence
provisions to release the prisoner.

144.11.267C.3

Nothing in this Chapter requires the Secretary of State to refer the
prisoner’s case to the Board unless the Secretary of State is also required by
the life sentence provisions to—

144.11.267C.3.a

refer the prisoner’s case to the Board, or

144.11.267C.3.b

release the prisoner.

144.11.267C.4

The reference in subsection  (3)(a)  to a requirement of the Secretary of
State to refer a prisoner’s case to the Board does not include a requirement
to do so under section 31A(3) of the 1997 Act.

144.11.267C.5

The fact that the prisoner is also serving a fixed-term sentence is to be
ignored in determining, for the purposes of subsections  (2)  and  (3) , what
the life sentence provisions require.

144.11.267C.6

In this section “ the life sentence provisions ” means Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
the 1997 Act.

144.12

In section 11 of the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015 (release on licence
of life prisoners), omit subsections (1) and (4).

###### Application of release provisions to repatriated prisoners

145

145.1

In the Schedule to the Repatriation of Prisoners Act 1984, in paragraph 2
(application of early release provisions) as it applies in relation to
prisoners repatriated to England and Wales—

145.1.a

omit sub-paragraphs (3) and (3A);

145.1.b

for sub-paragraphs (3B) to (3F) (inserted by the Counter-Terrorism and
Sentencing Act 2021) substitute—

145.1.b.3ZA

The Secretary of State may specify in the warrant that the prisoner is to be
treated for the purposes of the enactments relating to release on licence as
if the sentence to be served by the prisoner was imposed in respect of—

145.1.b.3ZA.a

a particular offence under the law of England and Wales,

145.1.b.3ZA.b

such an offence carried out in a certain manner or in certain circumstances,
or

145.1.b.3ZA.c

such an offence in relation to which certain findings were made by the court
before which the prisoner was convicted or sentenced for the offence;

and if that is done those enactments have effect accordingly.

145.1.b.3ZB

An offence may be specified under sub-paragraph  (3ZA)  only if it corresponds
to the offence in respect of which the prisoner is required to be detained in
the country or territory from which the prisoner is transferred (“the overseas
offence”).

145.1.b.3ZC

A specification under sub-paragraph  (3ZA)(b)  may be made only if, in the
opinion of the Secretary of State, findings made by the court before which the
prisoner was convicted or sentenced for the overseas offence show that the
overseas offence was committed in the manner or circumstances to be specified
(or in a corresponding manner or corresponding circumstances).

145.1.b.3ZD

A finding may be specified under sub-paragraph  (3ZA)(c)  only if, in the
opinion of the Secretary of State, findings made by the court before which the
prisoner was convicted or sentenced for the overseas offence show that the
finding to be specified could properly have been made by a court in England
and Wales dealing with the prisoner.

145.1.b.3ZE

Sub-paragraph  (3ZA)  does not result in the enactments relating to release on
licence applying in a way in which they could not apply in relation to a
sentence imposed in respect of the offence specified under that sub-paragraph—

145.1.b.3ZE.a

that was committed at the same time as the overseas offence was committed, or

145.1.b.3ZE.b

in respect of which a conviction was made, or sentence passed, at the same
time as occurred in respect of the overseas offence.

145.1.b.3ZF

The Secretary of State may amend a warrant (whether issued before or after
sub-paragraph  (3ZA)  comes into force and whether or not the transfer it
authorised has taken place) so as to specify the matters there referred to.

;

145.1.c

in sub-paragraph (4), in the definition of “the enactments relating to release
on licence”, for “and Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003”
substitute  “, Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 and
section 28 of the Offender Management Act 2007” .

145.2

The repeal by subsection  (1)(b)  of sub-paragraphs (3B) to (3F) of the
amended paragraph does not affect the continued operation of the enactments
relating to release on licence (within the meaning of that paragraph as
amended by subsection  (1) ) in relation to a warrant issued or amended in
accordance with those sub-paragraphs before their repeal.

145.3

In Schedule 26 to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008, the following
provisions (which contain superseded amendments of or in connection with the
paragraph amended by subsection  (1) ) are repealed—

145.3.a

paragraph 19(4) and (5), and

145.3.b

paragraph 33(2) and (3).

###### Sentences and offences in respect of which polygraph condition may be imposed

146

In section 28 of the Offender Management Act 2007 (application of polygraph
condition)—

146.a

in subsection (3), for paragraphs (a) to (g) substitute—

146.a.a

a life sentence within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime
(Sentences) Act 1997 (see section 34(2) of that Act), or

146.a.b

a fixed-term sentence within the meaning of Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 (see section 237 of that Act) of a term of 12 months
or more.

;

146.b

in subsection (4), for the words from “means—” to the end substitute

means an offence specified in any one or more of—

146.b.a

Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (sexual offences attracting
notification requirements),

146.b.b

Part 2 of Schedule 15 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (sexual offences under
the law of England and Wales specified for certain purposes),

146.b.c

paragraphs 1 to 21 of Schedule 16 to that Act (sexual offences under the law
of Scotland specified for certain purposes), as that Schedule had effect
immediately before its repeal on 14 July 2008, and

146.b.d

Part 2 of Schedule 17 to that Act (sexual offences under the law of Northern
Ireland specified for certain purposes), as that Schedule had effect
immediately before its repeal on 14 July 2008.

;

146.c

after subsection (4) insert—

146.c.4ZA

In determining for the purposes of subsection (4) whether an offence is
specified in Schedule 3 to the Sexual Offences Act 2003, any limitation in
that Schedule referring to the circumstances of a particular case (including
the sentence imposed) is to be disregarded.

;

146.d

in subsection (4A) (inserted by the Counter-Terrorism and Sentencing Act
2021), omit paragraph (b) (but not the final “or”);

146.e

in subsection (4B) (also so inserted), omit paragraph (a);

146.f

after subsection (4B) insert—

146.f.4C

A sentence in respect of a service offence is to be treated for the purposes
of this section as if it were a sentence in respect of the corresponding
offence.

146.f.4D

In subsection  (4C) —

146.f.4D.a

“ service offence ” means an offence under—

146.f.4D.a.i

section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006,

146.f.4D.a.ii

section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air Force Act 1955, or

146.f.4D.a.iii

section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957;

146.f.4D.b

“ corresponding offence ” means—

146.f.4D.b.i

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, the
corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of
that section;

146.f.4D.b.ii

in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air
Force Act 1955, the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that
Act;

146.f.4D.b.iii

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957,
the civil offence within the meaning of that section.

146.f.4E

Section 48 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (supplementary provisions relating to
ancillary service offences) applies for the purposes of subsection  (4D)(b)(i)
above as it applies for the purposes of the provisions of that Act referred to
in subsection (3)(b) of that section.

###### Minor amendments to do with weapons-related offences

147

147.1

In Schedule 15 to the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (specified offences for
certain purposes to do with release of offenders)—

147.1.a

after paragraph 60 insert—

147.1.a.60A

An offence under section 47 of the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001
(use etc of nuclear weapons).

147.1.a.60B

An offence under section 50 of that Act (assisting or inducing certain
weapons-related acts overseas).

;

147.1.b

omit paragraphs 163 and 164;

147.1.c

in paragraph 165, for “that Act” substitute  “the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and
Security Act 2001” .

147.2

In Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code (specified offences for certain
sentencing purposes)—

147.2.a

after paragraph 23 insert—

############## Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001

147.2.a.23A

An offence under either of the following provisions of the Anti-Terrorism,
Crime and Security Act 2001—

147.2.a.23A.a

section 47 (use etc of nuclear weapons);

147.2.a.23A.b

section 50 (assisting or inducing certain weapons-related acts overseas).

;

147.2.b

for paragraph 42 substitute—

147.2.b.42

An offence under section 113 of the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act
2001 (use of noxious substance or thing to cause harm or intimidate).

###### Application of provision about minimum terms to service offences

148

In section 261A of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (life sentences imposed by Court
Martial), at the end insert—

148.5

Schedule 21, as it applies in relation to a sentence passed by the Court
Martial, has effect as if a reference to murder included reference to an
offence under section 42 as respects which the corresponding offence under the
law of England and Wales is murder.

#### Community sentences

##### Community and suspended sentence orders

###### Supervision by responsible officer

149

149.1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

149.2

In section 215 (community order: duty of offender to keep in touch with
responsible officer)—

149.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

149.2.a.1A

In a case where the offender was convicted on or after the day on which
section 149 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into
force, the responsible officer may from time to time give the offender an
instruction to attend an appointment (with the responsible officer or with
another person) for the purposes of—

149.2.a.1A.a

the rehabilitation of the offender, or

149.2.a.1A.b

the protection of the public.

149.2.a.1B

The offender must comply with any instruction given by the responsible officer
under subsection (1A).

;

149.2.b

in subsection (2), at the beginning insert  “In the case of any community
order (whenever the offender was convicted)” ;

149.2.c

after subsection (2) insert—

149.2.c.2A

The powers under subsections (1A) and (2) to give instructions apply even if
all the requirements of the community order have been complied with.

;

149.2.d

in subsection (3), for “This obligation” substitute  “An obligation under this
section” .

149.3

In section 301 (suspended sentence order: duty of offender to keep in touch
with responsible officer)—

149.3.a

after subsection (1) insert—

149.3.a.1A

In a case where the offender was convicted on or after the day on which
section 149 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into
force, the responsible officer may from time to time give the offender an
instruction to attend an appointment (with the responsible officer or with
another person) for the purposes of—

149.3.a.1A.a

the rehabilitation of the offender, or

149.3.a.1A.b

the protection of the public.

149.3.a.1B

The offender must comply with any instruction given by the responsible officer
under subsection (1A).

;

149.3.b

in subsection (2), at the beginning insert  “In the case of any suspended
sentence order (whenever the offender was convicted)” ;

149.3.c

after subsection (2) insert—

149.3.c.2A

The powers under subsections (1A) and (2) to give instructions apply even if
all the community requirements of the suspended sentence order have been
complied with.

;

149.3.d

in subsection (3), for “That obligation” substitute  “An obligation under this
section” .

###### Increases in maximum daily curfew hours and curfew requirement period

150

150.1

Paragraph 9 of Schedule 9 to the Sentencing Code (community orders and
suspended sentence orders: curfew requirement) is amended in accordance with
subsections  (2)  to  (5) .

150.2

In sub-paragraph (4)—

150.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a);

150.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “16 hours” substitute  “the relevant number of hours” ;

150.2.c

at the end insert

, and

150.2.c.c

not more than 112 hours in any period of 7 days beginning with the day of the
week on which the requirement first takes effect.

150.3

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

150.3.4A

In sub-paragraph (4) “ the relevant number of hours ” means—

150.3.4A.a

in relation to a relevant order in respect of an offence of which the offender
was convicted before the day on which section 150 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, 16 hours, and

150.3.4A.b

in relation to a relevant order in respect of an offence of which the offender
was convicted on or after that day, 20 hours.

150.4

In sub-paragraph (5), for the words “the period of 12 months” substitute  “the
relevant period” .

150.5

After sub-paragraph (5) insert—

150.5.6

In sub-paragraph (5) “ the relevant period ” means—

150.5.6.a

in relation to a relevant order in respect of an offence of which the offender
was convicted before the day on which section 150 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, the period of 12 months, and

150.5.6.b

in relation to a relevant order in respect of an offence of which the offender
was convicted on or after that day, the period of 2 years.

150.6

In paragraph 13 of Schedule 23 to the Sentencing Act 2020 (powers to amend
limits in community requirements)—

150.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), after “9(4)” insert  “or (4A)” ;

150.6.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), for “9(5)” substitute  “9(6)” .

150.7

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended in accordance with subsections  (8)
and  (9) .

150.8

In Schedule 19A (supervision default orders)—

150.8.a

in paragraph 2 (application of community orders provisions to supervision
default orders), in paragraph (h), for “9(1) to (4)” substitute  “9(1) to
(4A)” ;

150.8.b

in paragraph 3—

150.8.b.i

in sub-paragraph (6), in the substituted sub-paragraph (4)(a), for  “16 hours”
substitute “the relevant number of hours”;

150.8.b.ii

after sub-paragraph (6) insert—

150.8.b.ii.6A

Paragraph 9(4A) of that Schedule applies as if references to an offence of
which the offender was convicted before, on or after a day were references to
a failure by a person to comply with a requirement that occurred before, on or
after that day.

150.9

In Schedule 31 (default orders: modification of provisions relating to
community orders), in paragraph 3—

150.9.a

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

150.9.a.1A

Any reference to an offence of which the offender was convicted before, on or
after a day is to be read as a reference to a default made by a person before,
on or after that day.

;

150.9.b

in sub-paragraph (2)—

150.9.b.i

for “sub-paragraph (4)” substitute  “sub-paragraph (4A)” ;

150.9.b.ii

for “(4A)” substitute  “(4B)” .

###### Power for responsible officer to vary curfew requirements etc

151

151.1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

151.2

In Part 5 of Schedule 9 (community orders and suspended sentence orders:
curfew requirements), after paragraph 10 insert—

############ Power of responsible officer to vary curfew requirement

151.2.10A

151.2.10A.1

This paragraph applies where—

151.2.10A.1.a

a relevant order is in force,

151.2.10A.1.b

the order is in respect of an offence of which the offender was convicted on
or after the day on which section 151 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022 came into force,

151.2.10A.1.c

the order includes a curfew requirement imposed under paragraph 9, and

151.2.10A.1.d

the responsible officer considers that the variation condition is met.

151.2.10A.2

The variation condition is met if, having regard to a change in the offender’s
circumstances since the relevant order was made, it is appropriate to—

151.2.10A.2.a

vary the start time of any of the curfew periods;

151.2.10A.2.b

vary the relevant place in relation to any of those periods.

151.2.10A.3

The responsible officer may, with the consent of the offender, give the
offender notice (a “ variation notice ”) specifying—

151.2.10A.3.a

the new start time of such of the curfew periods as are specified in the
notice;

151.2.10A.3.b

the new relevant place for such of the curfew periods as are so specified.

151.2.10A.4

The effect of a variation notice is to vary the relevant order as specified in
the notice, with effect from the date so specified.

151.2.10A.5

A variation notice may specify different variations of the start time, or of
the relevant place, for different days.

151.2.10A.6

Before giving a variation notice containing provision pursuant to sub-
paragraph  (3)(b) , the responsible officer must obtain and consider
information about each place proposed to be specified in the notice.

151.2.10A.7

That information must include information as to the attitude of persons likely
to be affected by the offender’s enforced presence there.

151.2.10A.8

A variation notice must not—

151.2.10A.8.a

vary the length of any of the offender’s curfew periods;

151.2.10A.8.b

in a case where the relevant order includes a residence requirement under
paragraph 13, vary the relevant place in a way that is inconsistent with that
requirement;

151.2.10A.8.c

make any variation prohibited by sub-paragraph  (9) .

151.2.10A.9

A variation is prohibited by this sub-paragraph if—

151.2.10A.9.a

the relevant order concerned includes an electronic compliance monitoring
requirement imposed under paragraph 10(3) (a “monitoring requirement”), and

151.2.10A.9.b

the responsible officer considers that, if the court had made the relevant
order imposing the curfew requirement as varied by the variation, the court—

151.2.10A.9.b.i

would not have imposed the monitoring requirement, or

151.2.10A.9.b.ii

would have imposed a different monitoring requirement.

151.2.10A.10

The responsible officer must give the appropriate court—

151.2.10A.10.a

a copy of a variation notice given under this paragraph, and

151.2.10A.10.b

evidence of the offender’s consent to the notice.

151.2.10A.11

In this paragraph—

151.2.10A.11.a

“appropriate court”—

151.2.10A.11.a.i

in relation to a community order, has the same meaning as in Schedule 10 (see
paragraph 1 of that Schedule);

151.2.10A.11.a.ii

in relation to a suspended sentence order, has the same meaning as in Schedule
16 (see paragraph 1 of that Schedule);

151.2.10A.11.b

“ curfew periods ”, in relation to a relevant order, means the periods
specified in the order under paragraph 9(2)(a);

151.2.10A.11.c

“ relevant place ”, in relation to a curfew period, means the place specified
under paragraph 9(2)(b) at which the offender is required to remain for that
period;

151.2.10A.11.d

“ start time ”, in relation to a curfew period, means the time at which the
period is required to start pursuant to the relevant order.

151.3

In paragraph 16 of Schedule 10 (amendment of community order because of change
of residence), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

151.3.3

If the permission is given by the responsible officer—

151.3.3.a

the officer must give notice to the appropriate court of the permission, and

151.3.3.b

the court must amend the order as set out in sub-paragraph (2).

151.4

After paragraph 17 of that Schedule insert—

############ Amendment because of variation of curfew requirement by responsible officer

151.4.17A

151.4.17A.1

This paragraph applies where at any time the responsible officer gives—

151.4.17A.1.a

a copy of a variation notice in relation to a community order, and

151.4.17A.1.b

evidence of the offender’s consent to the notice,

to the appropriate court under paragraph 10A of Schedule 9.

151.4.17A.2

The appropriate court must amend the order to reflect the effect of the
variation notice.

151.5

In paragraph 23 of Schedule 16 (amendment of suspended sentence order) because
of change of residence), after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

151.5.3

If the permission is given by the responsible officer—

151.5.3.a

the officer must give notice to the appropriate court of the permission, and

151.5.3.b

the court must amend the suspended sentence order as set out in sub-paragraph
(2).

151.6

After paragraph 24 of that Schedule insert—

############ Amendment because of variation of curfew requirement by responsible officer

151.6.24A

151.6.24A.1

This paragraph applies where at any time the responsible officer gives—

151.6.24A.1.a

a copy of a variation notice in relation to a suspended sentence order, and

151.6.24A.1.b

evidence of the offender’s consent to the notice,

to the appropriate court under paragraph 10A of Schedule 9.

151.6.24A.2

The appropriate court must amend the order to reflect the effect of the
variation notice.

###### Removal of attendance centre requirements for adults

152

152.1

The Sentencing Code is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)  to  (4) .

152.2

In section 207(3) (community orders: availability of attendance centre
requirement), for the words from “the offender” to the end substitute

—

152.2.a

the offender was convicted of the offence before the day on which section 152
of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

152.2.b

the offender was aged under 25 when convicted of the offence.

152.3

In section 291(3) (suspended sentence orders: availability of attendance
centre requirement), for the words from “the offender” to the end substitute

—

152.3.a

the offender was convicted of the offence before the day on which section 152
of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, and

152.3.b

the offender was aged under 25 when convicted of the offence.

152.4

In Schedule 9 (community orders and suspended sentence orders: requirements),
in the heading to Part 13, after “Attendance centre requirement” insert  “:
offenders convicted before the day on which section 152 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force” .

152.5

Schedule 13 contains related amendments.

###### Special procedures relating to review and breach

153

Schedule 14 makes provision for, and in relation to, the powers of courts—

153.a

to review community and suspended sentence orders, and

153.b

to commit an offender to custody for breach of a community or suspended
sentence order.

###### Drug testing requirement

154

Schedule 15 amends the Sentencing Code to make provision for a drug testing
requirement in community orders and suspended sentence orders.

##### Unpaid work requirements

###### Duty to consult on unpaid work requirements

155

After section 10 of the Offender Management Act 2007 insert—

########## Duty to consult on unpaid work requirements

155.10A

155.10A.1

Each provider of probation services must, in each calendar year, consult the
prescribed persons about the work to be performed by persons who—

155.10A.1.a

are subject to unpaid work requirements, and

155.10A.1.b

are supervised by that provider.

155.10A.2

In this section “ prescribed person ” means a person, or a person of a
description, prescribed by regulations made by the Secretary of State.

155.10A.3

In this section “ unpaid work requirement ” means an unpaid work requirement
as defined by—

155.10A.3.a

paragraph 10(1) of Schedule 6 to the Sentencing Code (youth rehabilitation
orders),

155.10A.3.b

paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 9 to the Sentencing Code (community orders and
suspended sentence orders), or

155.10A.3.c

paragraph 3A(1) of Schedule A1 to the Children Act 1989 (enforcement orders).

155.10A.4

For the purposes of this section a person is supervised by a provider of
probation services if an officer of that provider has functions relating to
the person’s compliance with an unpaid work requirement.

#### Assaults on those providing a public service etc

##### Assaults on those providing a public service etc

156

In the Sentencing Act 2020, after section 68 insert—

######### Assaults on those providing a public service etc

156.68A

156.68A.1

This section applies where—

156.68A.1.a

a court is considering the seriousness of an offence listed in subsection (3),
and

156.68A.1.b

the offence is not aggravated under section 67(2).

156.68A.2

If the offence was committed against a person providing a public service,
performing a public duty or providing services to the public, the court—

156.68A.2.a

must treat that fact as an aggravating factor, and

156.68A.2.b

must state in open court that the offence is so aggravated.

156.68A.3

The offences referred to in subsection (1) are—

156.68A.3.a

an offence of common assault or battery, except where section 1 of the
Assaults on Emergency Workers (Offences) Act 2018 applies;

156.68A.3.b

an offence under any of the following provisions of the Offences against the
Person Act 1861—

156.68A.3.b.i

section 16 (threats to kill);

156.68A.3.b.ii

section 18 (wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm);

156.68A.3.b.iii

section 20 (malicious wounding);

156.68A.3.b.iv

section 47 (assault occasioning actual bodily harm);

156.68A.3.c

an inchoate offence in relation to any of the preceding offences.

156.68A.4

In this section—

156.68A.4.a

a reference to providing services to the public includes a reference to
providing goods or facilities to the public;

156.68A.4.b

a reference to the public includes a reference to a section of the public.

156.68A.5

Nothing in this section prevents a court from treating the fact that an
offence was committed against a person providing a public service, performing
a public duty or providing services to the public as an aggravating factor in
relation to offences not listed in subsection (3).

156.68A.6

This section has effect in relation to a person who is convicted of the
offence on or after the date on which section 156 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 comes into force.

### Youth justice

#### Youth remand

##### Youth remand

157

157.1

The Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 is amended as
follows.

157.2

In section 91 (remands of children otherwise than on bail), after subsection
(4) insert—

157.2.4A

Before deciding whether to remand a child to youth detention accommodation in
accordance with section 102 the court must consider the interests and welfare
of the child.

157.3

In section 98 (first set of conditions for a remand to youth detention
accommodation)—

157.3.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

157.3.a.aa

the sentencing condition (see subsection (2A)),

;

157.3.b

after subsection (2) insert—

157.3.b.2A

The sentencing condition is that it appears to the court that it is very
likely that the child will be sentenced to a custodial sentence for the
offence mentioned in section 91(1) or one or more of those offences.

;

157.3.c

in subsection (4), at the end (after paragraph (b)) insert  “, and that the
risks posed by the child cannot be managed safely in the community” .

157.4

In section 99 (second set of conditions for a remand to youth detention
accommodation)—

157.4.a

in subsection (3), for “there is a real prospect” substitute  “it is very
likely” ;

157.4.b

in subsection (5)(a)—

157.4.b.i

after “recent” insert  “and significant” ;

157.4.b.ii

after “remand” insert  “, and it appears to the court that the history is
relevant in all the circumstances of the case” ;

157.4.c

in subsection (6)—

157.4.c.i

after “recent” insert  “and significant” ;

157.4.c.ii

after “remand” insert  “, and this appears to the court relevant in all the
circumstances of the case” ;

157.4.d

in subsection (7), at the end (after paragraph (b)) insert  “, and that the
risks posed by the child cannot be managed safely in the community” .

157.5

In section 100 (first set of conditions for a remand to youth detention
accommodation: extradition cases)—

157.5.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

157.5.a.aa

the sentencing condition (see subsection (2A)),

;

157.5.b

after subsection (2) insert—

157.5.b.2A

The sentencing condition is that it appears to the court that, if the child
were convicted in England and Wales of an offence equivalent to the offence to
which the extradition proceedings relate or one or more of those offences, it
is very likely that the child would be sentenced to a custodial sentence for
that offence or those offences.

;

157.5.c

in subsection (4), at the end (after paragraph (b)) insert  “, and that the
risks posed by the child cannot be managed safely in the community” .

157.6

In section 101 (second set of conditions for a remand to youth detention
accommodation: extradition cases)—

157.6.a

in subsection (3), for “there would be a real prospect” substitute  “it is
very likely” ;

157.6.b

in subsection (5)(a)—

157.6.b.i

after “recent” insert  “and significant” ;

157.6.b.ii

after “remand,” insert  “and it appears to the court that the history is
relevant in all the circumstances of the case,” ;

157.6.c

in subsection (6)—

157.6.c.i

after “recent” insert  “and significant” ;

157.6.c.ii

after “remand” insert  “, and this appears to the court relevant in all the
circumstances of the case” ;

157.6.d

in subsection (7), at the end (after paragraph (b)) insert  “, and that the
risks posed by the child cannot be managed safely in the community” .

157.7

In section 102 (remands to youth detention accommodation)—

157.7.a

in subsection (4), before paragraph (a) insert—

157.7.a.za

state in open court that it has considered subsections (3) and (4A) of section
91,

;

157.7.b

in subsection (5), before paragraph (a) insert—

157.7.b.za

is given in writing to—

157.7.b.za.i

the child,

157.7.b.za.ii

any legal representative of the child, and

157.7.b.za.iii

any youth offending team which appears to the court to have functions in
relation to the child,

.

#### Detention and training orders

##### Discretion as to length of term

158

In section 236(1) of the Sentencing Code (term of detention and training
order), for “4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 18 or 24 months” substitute  “at least 4 months
but must not exceed 24 months” .

##### Consecutive detention and training order and sentence of detention: effect of early release decision

159

159.1

In section 237 of the Sentencing Code (making of detention and training order
where offender subject to other order or sentence of detention), omit
subsection (5).

159.2

In section 241 of that Code (period of detention and training), after
subsection (5) insert—

########### Consecutive detention and training order and sentence of detention

159.2.5A

Where the offender is also subject to a sentence of any of the following kinds
that is to take effect, by virtue of an order to which subsection (7) applies,
when the offender would otherwise be released for supervision—

159.2.5A.a

a sentence of detention under section 250 or 252A,

159.2.5A.b

a sentence of detention under section 209 or 224A of the Armed Forces Act
2006, or

159.2.5A.c

an extended sentence of detention under section 254 (including one passed as a
result of section 221A of the Armed Forces Act 2006),

subsection (4) is to be read as if, instead of conferring a power to release
the offender, it conferred a power to determine that the Secretary of State
would, but for the sentence concerned, have released the offender.

159.3

In section 264AA of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (consecutive terms:
detention and training orders), after subsection (1) insert—

159.3.1A

In a case where the detention and training order was made on or after the day
on which section 159 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came
into force, section 246(1)(a) is to be read as if, instead of conferring a
power to release the offender, it conferred a power to determine that the
Secretary of State would, but for the detention and training order, have
directed the offender’s release under that section.

##### Detention and training orders: time to count as served

160

Schedule 16 makes provision in relation to the treatment of time spent
remanded in custody or on bail as time served in relation to detention and
training orders.

#### Youth rehabilitation orders

##### Youth rehabilitation orders

161

161.1

Schedule 17 contains amendments to provisions of the Criminal Justice and
Immigration Act 2008 and the Sentencing Act 2020 which relate to youth
rehabilitation orders.

161.2

In the following provisions of this section, “ the relevant YRO provisions ”
means—

161.2.a

Parts  2  and  3  of Schedule 17, and

161.2.b

subsection  (1)  of this section so far as relating to those Parts.

161.3

Regulations under section 208(1) which bring any of the relevant YRO
provisions into force only for a specified purpose or in relation to a
specified area may—

161.3.a

provide for that provision to be in force for that purpose or in relation to
that area for a specified period, and

161.3.b

make transitional or saving provision in connection with that provision
ceasing to be in force at the end of the specified period.

161.4

Regulations containing provision by virtue of subsection  (3)(a)  may be
amended by subsequent regulations under section 208(1) so as to continue any
of the relevant YRO provisions in force for the specified purpose or in
relation to the specified area for a further specified period.

161.5

Accordingly, the reference to section 419(1) of the Sentencing Act 2020, as
applied by section 206, to the coming into force of an amendment is to be read
as including a reference to the continuing in force of an amendment by reason
of subsection  (4) .

161.6

In subsections  (3)  and  (4) , “ specified ” means specified in regulations
under section 208(1).

161.7

Subsection  (8)  applies if—

161.7.a

the Secretary of State has made regulations under section 208(1) which make
provision permitted by subsection (3), and

161.7.b

the Secretary of State subsequently makes regulations under section 208(1)
which bring any of the relevant YRO provisions into force without making
provision permitted by subsection (3).

161.8

The regulations mentioned in subsection  (7) (b)  may—

161.8.a

provide that those provisions are to come into force with the amendments
specified in the regulations;

161.8.b

make amendments to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 or the
Sentencing Act 2020 in consequence of the amendments made by paragraph (a).

161.9

A statutory instrument containing regulations under section 208(1) which make
provision permitted by subsection  (8)  (whether alone or with other
provision) may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

#### Abolition of reparation orders

##### Abolition of reparation orders

162

In section 110(1) of the Sentencing Code (availability of reparation order),
before paragraph (a) insert—

162.za

the offender is convicted of the offence before the day on which section 162
of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 comes into force,

.

### Secure children's homes and secure 16 to 19 Academies

#### Temporary release from secure children’s homes

163

163.1

This section applies to a person who is detained in a secure children’s home
in pursuance of—

163.1.a

a sentence of detention,

163.1.b

a detention and training order or a further detention order,

163.1.c

a detention order under Schedule 5A to the Policing and Crime Act 2009 (breach
of gang injunction), or

163.1.d

a detention order under Schedule 2 to the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and
Policing Act 2014 (breach of anti-social behaviour injunction).

163.2

The Secretary of State or the manager of the home may temporarily release a
person to whom this section applies.

163.3

A temporary release under this section may be granted subject to conditions.

163.4

A person who is temporarily released under this section may be recalled at any
time by the Secretary of State or the manager of the home (irrespective of
which of those granted the release).

163.5

A manager of a secure children’s home must have regard to any guidance issued
by the Secretary of State about the use of powers of temporary release under
this section.

163.6

In this section—

      “ detention and training order ” has the same meaning as in the
Sentencing Code (see section 233 of that Code) and includes an order made
under section 100 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 or
section 211 of the Armed Forces Act 2006;           “ further detention order
” has the same meaning as in Schedule 12 to the Sentencing Code (see paragraph
1 of that Schedule) and includes an order made under section 104(3) of the
Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 and a further detention order
made by virtue of section 213 of the Armed Forces Act 2006;
“manager”—         in relation to a secure children’s home in England, means
the person who is registered under Part 2 of the Care Standards Act 2000 as
the manager of the home or, in a case where no such person is registered, the
person who is registered under that Part as the person who carries on the
home;           in relation to a secure children’s home in Wales, means the
person who is designated as the responsible individual in respect of the home
for the purposes of Part 1 of the Regulation and Inspection of Social Care
(Wales) Act 2016;                 “secure children’s home”—         in
relation to England, means a children’s home, within the meaning of section 1
of the Care Standards Act 2000, which provides accommodation for the purposes
of restricting liberty;           in relation to Wales, means residential
premises which provide a secure accommodation service within the meaning of
Part 1 of the  Regulation and Inspection of Social Care (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw
2) .

163.7

In section 49 of the Prison Act 1952 (persons unlawfully at large), after
subsection (4) insert—

163.7.4ZA

For the purposes of this section a person who, after being temporarily
released in pursuance of section 163 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022 (temporary release from a secure children’s home), is at large
at any time during the period for which they are liable to be detained
pursuant to their sentence shall be deemed to be unlawfully at large if the
period for which they were temporarily released has expired or if they have
been recalled under that section.

#### Secure 16 to 19 Academies

164

164.1

In section 1B of the Academies Act 2010 (16 to 19 Academies), at the end
insert—

164.1.4

A 16 to 19 Academy may provide secure accommodation for its students, but only
if it is approved to do so by the Secretary of State.

164.1.5

“ Secure accommodation ” means accommodation that is provided for the purpose
of restricting liberty.

164.1.6

The Secretary of State may grant approval under subsection (4) subject to
conditions.

164.1.7

A 16 to 19 Academy which provides secure accommodation for its students is to
be known as a secure 16 to 19 Academy.

164.2

In section 12 of that Act (charitable and trust corporation status of Academy
proprietors etc), at the end insert—

164.2.5

The setting up, establishment and running of a secure 16 to 19 Academy is to
be treated as a charitable purpose that falls within the description in
section 3(1)(b) of the Charities Act 2011 (advancement of education) for the
purposes of—

164.2.5.a

this section,

164.2.5.b

the Charities Act 2011, and

164.2.5.c

any other enactment that applies (in whatever way) the definition of
“charitable purpose” in section 2 of that Act.

164.2.6

But subsection (5) is to be disregarded in determining, in accordance with
section 3(1)(m) of the Charities Act 2011, whether a purpose may be regarded
as analogous to, or within the spirit of, a purpose falling within paragraph
(b) of section 3(1) of that Act.

164.3

In section 248(1) of the Sentencing Code (meaning of “ youth detention
accommodation ”), after paragraph (b) insert—

164.3.ba

a secure 16 to 19 Academy,

.

164.4

In the Children’s Homes (England) Regulations 2015 ( S.I. 2015/541 )—

164.4.a

in regulation 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1), in the definition of
“secure children’s home”—

164.4.a.i

after “means” insert

—



;

164.4.a.ii

at the end insert

; or

      a secure 16 to 19 Academy (see section 1B(4) to (7) of the Academies Act
2010);

;

164.4.b

in regulation 3 (excepted establishments)—

164.4.b.i

in paragraph (1)(b), for “as” substitute  “other than a secure 16 to 19
Academy, as those terms are” ;

164.4.b.ii

omit paragraph (1A).

### Management of offenders

#### Serious violence reduction orders

##### Serious violence reduction orders

165

165.1

In Part 11 of the Sentencing Code (behaviour orders) after Chapter 1 insert—

########### Serious violence reduction orders

############ Power to make serious violence reduction order

165.1.342A

165.1.342A.1

This section applies where—

165.1.342A.1.a

a person aged 18 or over (“the offender”) is convicted of an offence which was
committed on or after the first appointed day, and

165.1.342A.1.b

the prosecution makes an application to the court for a serious violence
reduction order to be made in respect of the offender.

165.1.342A.2

Subject to subsection (6), the court may make a serious violence reduction
order in respect of the offender if—

165.1.342A.2.a

the condition in subsection (3) or (4) is met, and

165.1.342A.2.b

the condition in subsection (5) is met.

165.1.342A.3

The condition in this subsection is that the court is satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that—

165.1.342A.3.a

a bladed article or offensive weapon was used by the offender in the
commission of the offence, or

165.1.342A.3.b

the offender had a bladed article or offensive weapon with them when the
offence was committed.

165.1.342A.4

The condition in this subsection is that the court is satisfied on the balance
of probabilities that—

165.1.342A.4.a

a bladed article or offensive weapon was used by another person in the
commission of the offence and the offender knew or ought to have known that
this would be the case, or

165.1.342A.4.b

another person who committed the offence had a bladed article or offensive
weapon with them when the offence was committed and the offender knew or ought
to have known that this would be the case.

165.1.342A.5

The condition in this subsection is that the court considers it necessary to
make a serious violence reduction order in respect of the offender to—

165.1.342A.5.a

protect the public in England and Wales from the risk of harm involving a
bladed article or offensive weapon,

165.1.342A.5.b

protect any particular members of the public in England and Wales (including
the offender) from such risk, or

165.1.342A.5.c

prevent the offender from committing an offence involving a bladed article or
offensive weapon.

165.1.342A.6

The court may make a serious violence reduction order in respect of the
offender only if it—

165.1.342A.6.a

does so in addition to dealing with the offender for the offence, and

165.1.342A.6.b

does not make an order for absolute discharge under section 79 in respect of
the offence.

165.1.342A.7

For the purpose of deciding whether to make a serious violence reduction order
the court may consider evidence led by the prosecution and evidence led by the
offender.

165.1.342A.8

It does not matter whether the evidence would have been admissible in the
proceedings in which the offender was convicted.

165.1.342A.9

The court may adjourn any proceedings on an application for a serious violence
reduction order even after sentencing the offender.

165.1.342A.10

If the offender does not appear for any adjourned proceedings the court may—

165.1.342A.10.a

further adjourn the proceedings,

165.1.342A.10.b

issue a warrant for the offender’s arrest, or

165.1.342A.10.c

hear the proceedings in the offender’s absence.

165.1.342A.11

The court may not act under subsection (10)(b) unless it is satisfied that the
offender has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned
proceedings.

165.1.342A.12

The court may not act under subsection (10)(c) unless it is satisfied that the
offender—

165.1.342A.12.a

has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned proceedings,
and

165.1.342A.12.b

has been informed that if the offender does not appear for those proceedings
the court may hear the proceedings in the offender’s absence.

165.1.342A.13

On making a serious violence reduction order the court must in ordinary
language explain to the offender—

165.1.342A.13.a

the effects of the order, and

165.1.342A.13.b

the powers that a constable has in respect of the offender under section  342E
while the order is in effect.

165.1.342A.14

In subsection (1)(a) “ the first appointed day ” means the first day appointed
by regulations under section 208(1) of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022 for the coming into force to any extent of section 165 of that
Act.

165.1.342A.15

In subsection (4) the references to the offence include references to any
offence arising out of the same facts as the offence.

############ Meaning of “serious violence reduction order”

165.1.342B

165.1.342B.1

In this Chapter, “ serious violence reduction order ” means an order made in
respect of an offender that imposes on the offender—

165.1.342B.1.a

the requirements specified in subsections (2) and (4), and

165.1.342B.1.b

the requirements and prohibitions, if any, specified in regulations made by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this section.

165.1.342B.2

The offender must be required to notify the information in subsection (3) to
the police within the period of 3 days beginning with the day on which the
order takes effect.

165.1.342B.3

That information is—

165.1.342B.3.a

the offender’s name on the day that the notification is given and, where the
offender uses one or more other names on that day, each of those names,

165.1.342B.3.b

the offender’s home address on that day, and

165.1.342B.3.c

the address of any other premises at which, on that day, the offender
regularly resides or stays.

165.1.342B.4

The offender must be required to notify the information mentioned in
subsection (5) to the police within the period of 3 days beginning with the
day on which the offender—

165.1.342B.4.a

uses a name which has not been previously notified to the police in accordance
with the order,

165.1.342B.4.b

changes their home address, or

165.1.342B.4.c

decides to live for a period of one month or more at any premises the address
of which has not been previously notified to the police in accordance with the
order.

165.1.342B.5

That information is—

165.1.342B.5.a

in a case within subsection (4)(a), the name which has not previously been
notified,

165.1.342B.5.b

in a case within subsection (4)(b), the new home address, and

165.1.342B.5.c

in a case within subsection (4)(c), the address of the premises at which the
offender has decided to live.

165.1.342B.6

A serious violence reduction order must provide that the offender gives a
notification of the kind mentioned in subsection (2) or (4) by—

165.1.342B.6.a

attending at a police station in a police area in which the offender lives,
and

165.1.342B.6.b

giving an oral notification to a police officer, or to any person authorised
for the purpose by the officer in charge of the station.

165.1.342B.7

The Secretary of State may make regulations under subsection (1)(b) only if—

165.1.342B.7.a

the Secretary of State has laid a report before Parliament under section
166(3) of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (report to be laid
after piloting of serious violence reduction orders), and

165.1.342B.7.b

the Secretary of State considers that it is appropriate to make the
regulations for the purpose of assisting constables to exercise the powers
conferred by section  342E .

165.1.342B.8

Regulations under subsection (1)(b) are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

165.1.342B.9

In this section, “ home address ”, in relation to the offender, means—

165.1.342B.9.a

the address of the offender’s sole or main residence, or

165.1.342B.9.b

if the offender has no such residence, the address or location of a place
where the offender can regularly be found and, if there is more than one such
place, such one of those places as the offender may select.

############ Serious violence reduction orders: additional requirements etc

165.1.342C

165.1.342C.1

A serious violence reduction order may impose on the offender any requirement
or prohibition specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this section if the condition in subsection (2) is met.

165.1.342C.2

The condition in this subsection is that the court considers it appropriate
for the order to impose the requirement or prohibition on the offender for the
purpose of assisting constables to exercise the powers conferred by section
342E in respect of the offender.

165.1.342C.3

Regulations under this section may be made only after the Secretary of State
has laid a report before Parliament under section 166(3) of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (report to be laid after piloting of serious
violence reduction orders).

165.1.342C.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure.

############ Duration of serious violence reduction orders

165.1.342D

165.1.342D.1

A serious violence reduction order takes effect on the day it is made, subject
to subsections (3) and (4).

165.1.342D.2

A serious violence reduction order must specify the period for which it has
effect, which must be a fixed period of not less than 6 months and not more
than 2 years.

165.1.342D.3

Subsection (4) applies in relation to a serious violence reduction order if—

165.1.342D.3.a

the offender has been remanded in or committed to custody by an order of a
court, or

165.1.342D.3.b

a custodial sentence has been imposed on the offender or the offender is
serving or otherwise subject to a such a sentence.

165.1.342D.4

The order may provide that it does not take effect until the offender is
released from custody or ceases to be subject to a custodial sentence.

165.1.342D.5

Where a court makes a serious violence reduction order and the offender is
already subject to such an order, the earlier order ceases to have effect.

############ Serious violence reduction orders: powers of constables

165.1.342E

165.1.342E.1

This section applies where a serious violence reduction order is in effect.

165.1.342E.2

A constable may search the offender for the purpose of ascertaining whether
the offender has a bladed article or an offensive weapon with them.

165.1.342E.3

A constable may detain the offender for the purpose of carrying out the
search.

165.1.342E.4

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of the
search if the constable reasonably suspects it to be a bladed article or an
offensive weapon.

165.1.342E.5

The powers in this section may be exercised only while the offender is in a
public place.

165.1.342E.6

A constable may use reasonable force, if necessary, for the purpose of
exercising a power conferred by this section.

165.1.342E.7

The powers conferred on a constable by this section are additional to powers
which the constable has at common law or by virtue of any other enactment and
does not affect those powers.

############ Retention and disposal of things seized under section 

165.1.342F

165.1.342F.1

Any thing seized by a constable under section  342E  may be retained in
accordance with regulations made by the Secretary of State under this section.

165.1.342F.2

The Secretary of State may by regulations make provision—

165.1.342F.2.a

regulating the retention and safekeeping of things seized by a constable under
section  342E , and

165.1.342F.2.b

regulating the disposal and destruction of such things in such circumstances
as the regulations may prescribed.

165.1.342F.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

############ Offences relating to a serious violence reduction order

165.1.342G

165.1.342G.1

Where a serious violence reduction order is in effect, the offender commits an
offence if the offender—

165.1.342G.1.a

fails without reasonable excuse to do anything the offender is required to do
by the order,

165.1.342G.1.b

without reasonable excuse does anything the offender is prohibited from doing
by the order,

165.1.342G.1.c

notifies to the police, in purported compliance with the order, any
information which the offender knows to be false,

165.1.342G.1.d

tells a constable that they are not subject to a serious violence reduction
order, or

165.1.342G.1.e

intentionally obstructs a constable in the exercise of any power conferred by
section  342E .

165.1.342G.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

165.1.342G.2.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, or
a fine, or both;

165.1.342G.2.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years,
or a fine, or both.

165.1.342G.3

In relation to an offence committed before the coming into force of paragraph
24(2) of Schedule 22 (maximum sentence that may be imposed on summary
conviction of offence triable either way) the reference in subsection (2)(a)
to 12 months is to be read as a reference to 6 months.

165.1.342G.4

If a person is convicted of an offence under this section, an order for
conditional discharge under section 80 is not available to the court by or
before which the person is convicted.

############ Variation, renewal or discharge of serious violence reduction order

165.1.342H

165.1.342H.1

A person within subsection (2) may apply to the appropriate court for an order
varying, renewing or discharging a serious violence reduction order.

165.1.342H.2

Those persons are—

165.1.342H.2.a

the offender;

165.1.342H.2.b

the chief officer of police for the police area in which the offender lives;

165.1.342H.2.c

the chief officer of police for the police area in which the offender
committed the offence on the basis of which the order was made;

165.1.342H.2.d

a chief officer of police who believes that the offender is in, or is
intending to come to, the chief officer’s police area;

165.1.342H.2.e

where the offence on the basis of which the order was made is an offence to
which this paragraph applies, the chief constable of the British Transport
Police Force.

165.1.342H.3

Paragraph (e) of subsection (2) applies to an offence which—

165.1.342H.3.a

was committed at, or in relation to, a place within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of
the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 (jurisdiction of British Transport
Police Force), or

165.1.342H.3.b

otherwise related to a railway within the meaning given by section 67 of the
Transport and Works Act 1992 or a tramway within the meaning given by that
section.

165.1.342H.4

An application under this section must be made in accordance with rules of
court.

165.1.342H.5

Before making a decision on an application under this section, the court must
hear—

165.1.342H.5.a

the person making the application, and

165.1.342H.5.b

any other person within subsection (2) who wishes to be heard.

165.1.342H.6

Subject to subsection (7), on an application under this section the court may
make such order varying, renewing or discharging the serious violence
reduction order as it thinks appropriate.

165.1.342H.7

The court may renew a serious violence reduction order, or vary such an order
so as to lengthen its duration, only if it considers that to do so is
necessary—

165.1.342H.7.a

to protect the public in England and Wales from the risk of harm involving a
bladed article or offensive weapon,

165.1.342H.7.b

to protect any particular members of the public in England and Wales
(including the offender) from such risk, or

165.1.342H.7.c

to prevent the offender from committing an offence involving a bladed article
or offensive weapon.

165.1.342H.8

On making an order under this section varying or renewing a serious violence
reduction order, the court must in ordinary language explain to the offender—

165.1.342H.8.a

the effects of the serious violence reduction order (as varied or renewed),
and

165.1.342H.8.b

the powers that a constable has in respect of the offender under section 342E
while the serious violence reduction order is in effect.

165.1.342H.9

In this section the “ appropriate court ” means—

165.1.342H.9.a

where the Crown Court or the Court of Appeal made the serious violence
reduction order, the Crown Court;

165.1.342H.9.b

where a magistrates’ court made the serious violence reduction order and the
application is made by the offender or the chief constable of the British
Transport Police Force—

165.1.342H.9.b.i

that magistrates’ court, or

165.1.342H.9.b.ii

a magistrates’ court for the area in which the offender lives;

165.1.342H.9.c

where a magistrates’ court made the serious violence reduction order and the
application is made by a chief officer of police—

165.1.342H.9.c.i

that magistrates’ court,

165.1.342H.9.c.ii

a magistrates’ court for the area in which the offender lives, or

165.1.342H.9.c.iii

a magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area.

############ Appeal against serious violence reduction order etc

165.1.342I

165.1.342I.1

An appeal against the making of a serious violence reduction order may be
brought by the offender as if the order were a sentence passed on the offender
for an offence.

165.1.342I.2

Where an application is made under section  342H  for an order varying,
renewing or discharging a serious violence reduction order—

165.1.342I.2.a

the person who made the application may appeal against a refusal to make an
order under that section;

165.1.342I.2.b

the offender may appeal against the making of an order under that section
which was made on the application of a chief officer of police or the chief
constable of the British Transport Police Force;

165.1.342I.2.c

a chief officer of police within subsection (2) of that section may appeal
against the making of an order under that section which was made on the
application of the offender;

165.1.342I.2.d

where the offence on the basis of which the serious violence reduction order
was made is an offence to which this paragraph applies, the chief constable of
the British Transport Police Force may appeal against the making of an order
under that section which was made on the application of the offender.

165.1.342I.3

Paragraph (d) of subsection (2) applies to an offence which—

165.1.342I.3.a

was committed at, or in relation to, a place within section 31(1)(a) to (f) of
the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003 (jurisdiction of British Transport
Police Force), or

165.1.342I.3.b

otherwise related to a railway within the meaning given by section 67 of the
Transport and Works Act 1992 or a tramway within the meaning given by that
section.

165.1.342I.4

An appeal under subsection (2)—

165.1.342I.4.a

is to be made to the Court of Appeal if the application under section  342H
was made to the Crown Court;

165.1.342I.4.b

is to be made to the Crown Court in any other case.

165.1.342I.5

On an appeal under subsection (2) to the Crown Court, the court may make—

165.1.342I.5.a

such orders as may be necessary to give effect to its determination of the
appeal, and

165.1.342I.5.b

such incidental and consequential orders as appear to it to be appropriate.

############ Guidance

165.1.342J

165.1.342J.1

The Secretary of State may issue guidance to—

165.1.342J.1.a

constables,

165.1.342J.1.b

chief officers of police, and

165.1.342J.1.c

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force,

in relation to serious violence reduction orders.

165.1.342J.2

The guidance may in particular include—

165.1.342J.2.a

guidance about the exercise by constables, chief officers of police and the
chief constable of the British Transport Police Force of their functions under
this Chapter,

165.1.342J.2.b

guidance about identifying offenders in respect of whom it may be appropriate
for applications for serious violence reduction orders to be made, and

165.1.342J.2.c

guidance about providing assistance to prosecutors in connection with
applications for serious violence reduction orders.

165.1.342J.3

The Secretary of State may revise any guidance issued under this section.

165.1.342J.4

The Secretary of State must arrange for any guidance issued under this section
to be published.

165.1.342J.5

A constable, chief officer of police or the chief constable of the British
Transport Police Force must have regard to any guidance issued under this
section.

############ Guidance: Parliamentary procedure

165.1.342K

165.1.342K.1

Before issuing guidance under section 342J, the Secretary of State must lay a
draft of the guidance before Parliament.

165.1.342K.2

If, within the 40-day period, either House of Parliament resolves not to
approve the draft guidance, the guidance may not be issued.

165.1.342K.3

If no such resolution is made within that period, the Secretary of State may
issue the guidance.

165.1.342K.4

In this section “ the 40-day period ”, in relation to draft guidance, means
the period of 40 days beginning with the day on which the draft is laid before
Parliament (or, if it is not laid before each House on the same day, the later
of the days on which it is laid).

165.1.342K.5

In calculating the 40-day period, no account is to be taken of any period
during which—

165.1.342K.5.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

165.1.342K.5.b

both Houses are adjourned for more than 4 days.

############ Serious violence reduction orders: interpretation

165.1.342L

In this Chapter—

“ bladed article ” means an article to which section 139 of the Criminal
Justice Act 1988 applies; “ custodial sentence ” includes a pre-Code custodial
sentence (see section 222(4)); “ harm ” includes physical and psychological
harm; “ offensive weapon ” has the same meaning as in section 1(4) of the
Prevention of Crime Act 1953; “ public place ” means— any place to which the
public or any section of the public has access, on payment or otherwise, as of
right or by virtue of express or implied permission, or any other place to
which people have ready access but which is not a dwelling; “ the offender ”,
in relation to a serious violence reduction order, means the offender in
respect of whom the order or the application for the order has been made.

165.2

In section 80(3) of the Sentencing Code (list of circumstances where an order
for conditional discharge is not available) after paragraph (d) insert—

165.2.da

section  342G (4) (offences relating to a serious violence reduction order);

.

165.3

In section 3(2) of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985 (functions of the
Director of Public Prosecutions) after paragraph (fg) insert—

165.3.fh

to have the conduct of applications for orders under section  342A  of the
Sentencing Code (serious violence reduction orders);

.

##### Serious violence reduction orders: piloting

166

166.1

The Secretary of State may exercise the power in section 208(1) so as to bring
section 165 into force—

166.1.a

for all purposes, and

166.1.b

in relation to the whole of England and Wales,

only if the conditions in subsections (2) and (3) are met.

166.2

The condition in this subsection is that regulations under section 208(1) have
brought section 165 into force only—

166.2.a

for one or more specified purposes, or

166.2.b

in relation to one or more specified areas.

166.3

The condition in this subsection is that the Secretary of State has laid
before Parliament a report on the operation of Chapter 1A of Part 11 of the
Sentencing Code (inserted by section 165)—

166.3.a

for one or more of those purposes, or

166.3.b

in relation to one or more of those areas.

166.4

A report under subsection (3) must in particular include—

166.4.a

information about the number of offenders in respect of whom serious violence
reduction orders have been made;

166.4.b

information about the offences that were the basis for applications as a
result of which serious violence reduction orders were made;

166.4.c

information about the exercise by constables of the powers in section 342E of
the Sentencing Code (serious violence reduction orders: powers of constables);

166.4.d

an assessment of the impact of the operation of Chapter 1A of Part 11 of the
Sentencing Code on people with protected characteristics (within the meaning
of the Equality Act 2010);

166.4.e

an initial assessment of the impact of serious violence reduction orders on
the reoffending rates of offenders in respect of whom such orders have been
made;

166.4.f

an assessment of the impact on offenders of being subject to a serious
violence reduction order;

166.4.g

information about the number of offences committed under section 342G of the
Sentencing Code (offences relating to a serious violence reduction order) and
the number of suspected offences under that section that have been
investigated.

166.5

Regulations under section 208(1) which bring section 165 into force only for a
specified purpose or in relation to a specified area may—

166.5.a

provide for section 165 to be in force for that purpose or in relation to that
area for a specified period;

166.5.b

make transitional or saving provision in connection with section 165 ceasing
to be in force at the end of the specified period.

166.6

Regulations containing provision by virtue of subsection (5)(a) may be amended
by subsequent regulations under section 208(1) so as to continue section 165
in force—

166.6.a

for the specified purpose, or

166.6.b

in relation to the specified area,

for a further specified period.

166.7

Accordingly, the reference in section 419(1) of the Sentencing Act 2020, as
applied by section 206, to the coming into force of an amendment is to be read
as including a reference to the continuing in force of an amendment by reason
of subsection  (6) .

166.8

In this section—

“ serious violence reduction order ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1A of
Part 11 of the Sentencing Code (see section 342B of the Sentencing Code); “
specified ” means specified in regulations under section 208(1).

#### Knife crime prevention orders

##### Knife crime prevention order on conviction: adjournment of proceedings

167

167.1

In section 19 of the Offensive Weapons Act 2019 (knife crime prevention orders
made on conviction), after subsection (9) insert—

167.1.9A

The court may adjourn any proceedings on an application for a knife crime
prevention order even after sentencing the defendant.

167.1.9B

If the defendant does not appear for any adjourned proceedings the court may—

167.1.9B.a

further adjourn the proceedings,

167.1.9B.b

issue a warrant for the defendant’s arrest, or

167.1.9B.c

hear the proceedings in the defendant’s absence.

167.1.9C

The court may not act under subsection (9B)(b) unless it is satisfied that the
defendant has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned
proceedings.

167.1.9D

The court may not act under subsection (9B)(c) unless it is satisfied that the
defendant—

167.1.9D.a

has had adequate notice of the time and place of the adjourned proceedings,
and

167.1.9D.b

has been informed that if the defendant does not appear for those proceedings
the court may hear the proceedings in the defendant’s absence.

167.2

Regulations under section 208(1) which bring subsection  (1)  into force only
for a specified purpose or in relation to a specified area may—

167.2.a

provide for that provision to be in force for that purpose or in relation to
that area for a specified period;

167.2.b

make transitional or saving provision in relation to that provision ceasing to
be in force at the end of the specified period.

167.3

Regulations containing provision by virtue of subsection  (2)(a)  may be
amended by subsequent regulations under section 208(1) so as to continue
subsection  (1)  in force for the specified purpose or in relation to the
specified area for a further specified period.

167.4

In this section “ specified ” means specified in regulations under section
208(1).

#### Management of sex offenders

##### Notification requirements

###### Locations for sexual offender notification

168

168.1

Section 87 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (method of notification and related
matters) is amended as follows.

168.2

For paragraph (a) of subsection (1) substitute—

168.2.a

attending at the police station in the person’s local police area that is for
the time being specified in a document published for that local police area
under this section or, if there is more than one such police station, at any
one of them, and

.

168.3

After subsection (2) insert—

168.3.2A

The chief officer of police for each police area must publish, in such manner
as the chief officer thinks fit, a document containing the name and address of
each police station in that area at which a person may give a notification
under section 83(1), 84(1) or 85(1).

168.3.2B

A chief officer of police must keep under review a document published by the
chief officer under this section and may from time to time publish a revised
version of the document in such manner as the chief officer thinks fit.

###### Offences outside the United Kingdom: notification requirements

169

169.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

169.2

After section 96 insert—

############ Offences outside the United Kingdom: notification requirements

############# Offences outside the United Kingdom: notification requirements

169.2.96ZA

169.2.96ZA.1

Where this section applies to a person (“ P ”), P is subject to the
notification requirements of this Part for the notification period set out in
section 82.

This is subject to sections 96ZB (young offenders: parental notices) and 96ZC
(modifications of notification requirements).

169.2.96ZA.2

This section applies to P if P has been given a notice under subsection (3)
and that notice has not been cancelled.

169.2.96ZA.3

A constable may give a notice to P if—

169.2.96ZA.3.a

the conditions in subsections (6), (7) and (8) are met in respect of P, and

169.2.96ZA.3.b

an officer of at least the rank of inspector has authorised the giving of the
notice to P.

169.2.96ZA.4

A notice given to P under subsection (3) must be given to P in person and must
contain details of—

169.2.96ZA.4.a

the notifications that P is required to give under this Part,

169.2.96ZA.4.b

when those notifications must be given, and

169.2.96ZA.4.c

where those notifications may be given.

169.2.96ZA.5

A notice given under subsection (3) may be cancelled by a constable giving
notice in writing to P in person but such a cancellation must be authorised by
an officer of at least the rank of inspector.

169.2.96ZA.6

The first condition is that under the law in force in a country outside the
United Kingdom—

169.2.96ZA.6.a

P has been convicted of a relevant offence (whether or not P has been punished
for it),

169.2.96ZA.6.b

a court exercising jurisdiction under that law has made in respect of a
relevant offence a finding equivalent to a finding that P is not guilty by
reason of insanity,

169.2.96ZA.6.c

such a court has made in respect of a relevant offence a finding equivalent to
a finding that P is under a disability and did the act charged against P in
respect of the offence, or

169.2.96ZA.6.d

P has been cautioned in respect of a relevant offence.

169.2.96ZA.7

The second condition is that—

169.2.96ZA.7.a

the first condition is met because of a conviction, finding or caution which
occurred on or after 1 September 1997,

169.2.96ZA.7.b

the first condition is met because of a conviction or finding which occurred
before that date, but P was dealt with in respect of the offence or finding on
or after that date, or has yet to be dealt with in respect of it, or

169.2.96ZA.7.c

the first condition is met because of a conviction or finding which occurred
before that date, but on that date P was, in respect of the offence or
finding, subject under the law in force in the country concerned to detention,
supervision or any other disposal equivalent to any of those mentioned in
section 81(3) (read with sections 81(6) and 131).

169.2.96ZA.8

The third condition is that the period set out in section 82 (as it would have
effect as modified by section 96ZC(2) and (3) if this section applied to P) in
respect of the relevant offence has not expired.

169.2.96ZA.9

In this section and section 96ZC “ relevant offence ” means an act which—

169.2.96ZA.9.a

constituted an offence under the law in force in the country concerned, and

169.2.96ZA.9.b

would have constituted an offence listed in Schedule 3 (other than at
paragraph 60) if it had been done in any part of the United Kingdom.

169.2.96ZA.10

For the purposes of subsection (9)(a), an act punishable under the law in
force in a country outside the United Kingdom constitutes an offence under
that law however it is described in that law.

############# Young offenders: parental notices

169.2.96ZB

169.2.96ZB.1

Where the person (“ P ”) given a notice under section 96ZA is under 18 a
constable may also give a notice (a “parental notice”) to a person (“the
parent”) with parental responsibility for P.

169.2.96ZB.2

Subsections (3)(b) to (5) of section 96ZA apply to the giving of a parental
notice as if references to P were references to the parent.

169.2.96ZB.3

If a parental notice has been given to the parent and has not been cancelled
or ceased to have effect—

169.2.96ZB.3.a

the obligations that would (apart from this subsection) be imposed by virtue
of section 96ZA on P are to be treated instead as obligations on the parent,
and

169.2.96ZB.3.b

the parent must ensure that P attends with them at the police station when a
notification under this Part is being given.

169.2.96ZB.4

The parental notice ceases to have effect when P reaches the age of 18.

169.2.96ZB.5

If a parental notice is to be given, section 96ZA(4)(a) has effect in relation
to the notice given to P as if the reference to the notifications that P is
required to give under this Part were a reference to—

169.2.96ZB.5.a

the notifications that the parent is required to give under this Part, and

169.2.96ZB.5.b

the notifications (if any) that P is required to give under this Part once the
parental notice ceases to have effect.

############# Modifications of notification requirements

169.2.96ZC

169.2.96ZC.1

The application of this Part to a person (“ P ”) to whom section 96ZA applies
in respect of a conviction, finding or caution is subject to the modifications
set out in this section.

169.2.96ZC.2

References to the “relevant date”—

169.2.96ZC.2.a

in a case where P is within section 96ZA(6)(a), are to the date of the
conviction,

169.2.96ZC.2.b

in a case where P is within section 96ZA(6)(b) or (c), are to the date of the
finding, and

169.2.96ZC.2.c

in a case where P is within section 96ZA(6)(d), are to the date of the
caution.

169.2.96ZC.3

In section 82—

169.2.96ZC.3.a

references, except in the Table, to a person (or relevant offender) within any
provision of section 80 are to be read as references to P;

169.2.96ZC.3.b

the reference in the Table to section 80(1)(d) is to be read as a reference to
section 96ZA(6)(d);

169.2.96ZC.3.c

references to an order of any description are to be read as references to any
corresponding disposal made in relation to P in respect of an offence or
finding by reference to which a notice has been given to P under section 96ZA;

169.2.96ZC.3.d

the reference to offences listed in Schedule 3 is to be read as a reference to
relevant offences (see section 96ZA(9)).

169.2.96ZC.4

Section 83 has effect as if after subsection (1) there were inserted—

169.2.96ZC.4.1A

In the case of a relevant offender who is subject to the notification
requirements of this Part by virtue of a notice being given to the relevant
offender under section 96ZA, the reference in subsection (1) to the period of
3 days beginning with the relevant date (or if later the commencement of this
Part) is to be read as a reference to the period of 3 days beginning with the
day on which the notice was given to the relevant offender.

169.2.96ZC.5

Section 83(4) has effect as if—

169.2.96ZC.5.a

for the words “Where a notification order is made” there were substituted
“Where a relevant offender is subject to the notification requirements of this
Part by virtue of a notice given under section 96ZA” , and

169.2.96ZC.5.b

in paragraph (a) for the words “the order was made” there were substituted
“the notice was given to the relevant offender” .

############# Appeal against the issue of a notice under section 96ZA or 96ZB

169.2.96ZD

169.2.96ZD.1

A person (“ P ”) may appeal to a magistrates’ court against the decision to
give them a notice under section 96ZA.

169.2.96ZD.2

The grounds for bringing an appeal under subsection (1) include—

169.2.96ZD.2.a

that one or more of the conditions for the giving of the notice were not met
in respect of P at the time the notice was given;

169.2.96ZD.2.b

that the conviction, finding or caution by reason of which P was given the
notice falls within subsection (3).

169.2.96ZD.3

A conviction, finding or caution falls within this subsection if—

169.2.96ZD.3.a

any investigations or proceedings leading to it were conducted in a way which
contravened any of the Convention rights (within the meaning of section 1 of
the Human Rights Act 1998) which P would have had if those investigations or
proceedings had taken place in the United Kingdom, and

169.2.96ZD.3.b

that contravention was such that the conviction, finding or caution cannot be
safely relied on for the purposes of meeting the condition in section 96ZA(6).

169.2.96ZD.4

A person (“the parent”) may appeal to a magistrates’ court against the
decision to give them a parental notice under section 96ZB.

169.2.96ZD.5

The grounds for bringing an appeal under subsection (4) include—

169.2.96ZD.5.a

that one or more of the conditions for the giving of a notice under section
96ZA to the person (“ P ”) for whom the parent has parental responsibility
were not met in respect of P at the time the notice under section 96ZA was
given;

169.2.96ZD.5.b

that the conviction, finding or caution by reason of which P was given a
notice under section 96ZA falls within subsection (3);

169.2.96ZD.5.c

that one or more of the requirements for giving the parent a parental notice
under section 96ZB were not met at the time the parental notice was given.

169.2.96ZD.6

On an appeal under subsection (1) or (4) a magistrates’ court may cancel or
confirm the notice which is the subject of the appeal.

169.3

In section 91(1)(a) (offences relating to notification) for “or 89(2)(b)”
substitute  “, 89(2)(b) or 96ZB(3)(b)” .

169.4

In section 91A(3) (review of indefinite notification requirements) for
paragraph (c) substitute—

169.4.c

a notice given under section 96ZA.

169.5

Omit sections 97 to 103 (notification orders) and section 103G(6) and (7)
(notification order made on application for sexual harm prevention order or
interim sexual harm prevention order).

169.6

In section 133(1) (general interpretation), in the definition of “relevant
date” for “98, 100” substitute  “, 96ZC” .

169.7

Subsection (5) does not affect—

169.7.a

the validity or effect of any order made under section 97 or 100 of the Sexual
Offences Act 2003 before the coming into force of this section or the
application of Part 2 of that Act to any person in respect of whom such an
order was so made;

169.7.b

in respect of an application made under section 97(1) or section 100(2) of
that Act before the coming into force of this section—

169.7.b.i

the determination of such an application, or

169.7.b.ii

the validity and effect of any order made on such an application or the
application of Part 2 of that Act to any person in respect of whom such an
order was so made.

169.8

The amendments made by subsections (4) and (6) do not apply in respect of any
order to which, or any person to whom, subsection (7) applies.

###### Notification orders: Scotland

170

170.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

170.2

In section 97 (notification orders: applications and grounds)—

170.2.a

in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a)—

170.2.a.i

for the words from “A chief officer of police” to “police area” substitute
“The chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland (“the chief constable”)
may by application to any sheriff” , and

170.2.a.ii

omit “(“ the defendant ”)”,

170.2.b

in subsection (1)(a)—

170.2.b.i

for “him” substitute  “the chief constable” , and

170.2.b.ii

for “defendant” substitute  “person” ,

170.2.c

in subsection (1)(b)—

170.2.c.i

for “defendant”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “person” ,

170.2.c.ii

for “his police area”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “Scotland” , and

170.2.c.iii

for “chief officer” substitute  “chief constable” ,

170.2.d

in subsection (2)—

170.2.d.i

for “he”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “the person” , and

170.2.d.ii

in paragraph (c), for “him” substitute  “the person” ,

170.2.e

in subsection (5) for “court” substitute  “sheriff” , and

170.2.f

after subsection (5) insert—

170.2.f.5A

A record of evidence must be kept on any application for an order under this
section.

170.2.f.5B

The clerk of the court by which a notification order under this section is
made must cause a copy of the order as so made to be—

170.2.f.5B.a

given to the person named in the order,

170.2.f.5B.b

sent to the person by registered post, or

170.2.f.5B.c

sent to the person by the recorded delivery service,

and where a copy of the order is so sent to the person, an acknowledgement or
certificate of delivery issued by the Post Office is sufficient evidence of
the delivery of the copy on the day specified in the acknowledgement or
certificate.

170.3

In section 98 (notification orders: effect)—

170.3.a

in subsections (1)(a) and (3)(a) and (c) for “defendant” substitute  “person
in respect of whom the order has effect” , and

170.3.b

in subsection (1)(b) for “defendant” substitute  “person” .

170.4

In section 99 (sections 97 and 98: relevant offences), in subsections (3) and
(4), for “defendant” substitute  “person in respect of whom the order is
sought” .

170.5

In section 100 (interim notification orders)—

170.5.a

in subsection (2)—

170.5.a.i

in paragraph (a), omit “the complaint containing”, and

170.5.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “by complaint to the court to which that application has
been made” substitute  “by further application to the sheriff to whom the main
application has been made” ,

170.5.b

in subsection (5)—

170.5.b.i

in paragraph (a), for “defendant” substitute  “person in respect of whom the
order has effect” , and

170.5.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “defendant” substitute  “person” ,

170.5.c

in subsection (7)—

170.5.c.i

for “defendant” substitute  “person in respect of whom the order has effect” ,
and

170.5.c.ii

for “complaint” substitute  “application” , and

170.5.d

after subsection (7) insert—

170.5.d.7A

A record of evidence must be kept on any application for an order under this
section.

170.5.d.7B

The clerk of the court by which an interim notification order is made, varied,
renewed or discharged under this section must cause a copy of, as the case may
be—

170.5.d.7B.a

the order as so made, varied or renewed, or

170.5.d.7B.b

the interlocutor by which discharge is effected,

to be given to the person named in the order or to be sent to the person in
accordance with subsection (7C).

170.5.d.7C

A copy of the order may be sent to the person named in the order—

170.5.d.7C.a

by registered post, or

170.5.d.7C.b

by the recorded delivery service,

and where a copy of the order is so sent to the person, an acknowledgement or
certificate of delivery issued by the Post Office is sufficient evidence of
the delivery of the copy on the day specified in the acknowledgement or
certificate.

170.6

Omit sections 101 (notification orders and interim notification orders:
appeals in England and Wales) and 103 (sections 97 to 100: Scotland).

##### Sexual harm prevention orders and sexual risk orders

###### Applications by British Transport Police and Ministry of Defence Police

171

171.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

171.2

Section 103A (sexual harm prevention orders: applications and grounds) is
amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (6) .

171.3

In subsection (4), for the words before paragraph (a) substitute  “A person
mentioned in subsection (4A) (“ the applicant ”) may by complaint to a
magistrates’ court apply for a sexual harm prevention order in respect of a
person if it appears to the applicant that—” .

171.4

After subsection (4) insert—

171.4.4A

Those persons are—

171.4.4A.a

a chief officer of police;

171.4.4A.b

the Director General of the National Crime Agency (“the Director General”);

171.4.4A.c

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force;

171.4.4A.d

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police.

171.5

For subsection (7) substitute—

171.5.7

If the Director General, the chief constable of the British Transport Police
Force or the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police makes an
application under subsection (4), that person must as soon as practicable
notify the chief officer of police for a relevant police area of that
application.

171.6

In subsection (9)(b)—

171.6.a

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), after “the Director General” insert  “,
the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force or the chief
constable of the Ministry of Defence Police” , and

171.6.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “Director General” substitute  “applicant” .

171.7

In section 103F (interim sexual harm prevention orders), after subsection (6)
(inserted by section 173 of this Act) insert—

171.7.7

If the Director General of the National Crime Agency, the chief constable of
the British Transport Police Force or the chief constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police makes an application under this section, that person must as
soon as practicable notify the chief officer of police for a relevant police
area of that application.

171.7.8

In subsection (7), “ relevant police area ” has the same meaning as in section
103A (sexual harm prevention orders: applications and grounds) (see section
103A(9)).

171.8

In section 103J(1) (sexual harm prevention orders and interim sexual harm
prevention orders: guidance) for “chief officers of police and to the Director
General of the National Crime Agency” substitute  “chief officers of police,
the Director General of the National Crime Agency, the chief constable of the
British Transport Police Force and the chief constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police” .

171.9

Section 122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect) is amended
in accordance with subsections  (10)  and  (11) .

171.10

For subsection (1) substitute—

171.10.1

A person mentioned in subsection (1A) (“ the applicant ”) may by complaint to
a magistrates’ court apply for an order under this section (a “sexual risk
order”) in respect of a person (“ the defendant ”) if it appears to the
applicant that the condition in subsection (2) is met.

171.10.1A

Those persons are—

171.10.1A.a

a chief officer of police;

171.10.1A.b

the Director General of the National Crime Agency (“the Director General”);

171.10.1A.c

the chief constable of the British Transport Police Force;

171.10.1A.d

the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police.

171.11

For subsection (5) substitute—

171.11.5

If the Director General, the chief constable of the British Transport Police
Force or the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence Police makes an
application under subsection (1), that person must as soon as practicable
notify the chief officer of police for a relevant police area of that
application.

171.12

In section 122B(3)(b) (interpretation of section 122A)—

171.12.a

after “Agency” insert  “, the chief constable of the British Transport Police
Force or the chief constable for the Ministry of Defence Police” , and

171.12.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), for “Director General” substitute  “applicant” .

171.13

In section 122E (interim sexual risk orders), after subsection (6) (inserted
by section 173 of this Act) insert—

171.13.7

If the Director General of the National Crime Agency, the chief constable of
the British Transport Police Force or the chief constable of the Ministry of
Defence Police makes an application under this section, that person must as
soon as practicable notify the chief officer of police for a relevant police
area of that application.

171.13.8

In subsection (7), “ relevant police area ” has the same meaning as in section
122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect) (see section
122B(3)).

171.14

In section 122J(1) (sexual risk orders and interim sexual risk orders:
guidance) for “chief officers of police and to the Director General of the
National Crime Agency” substitute  “chief officers of police, the Director
General of the National Crime Agency, the chief constable of the British
Transport Police Force and the chief constable of the Ministry of Defence
Police” .

###### List of countries

172

172.1

The Secretary of State may—

172.1.a

prepare a list of countries and territories outside the United Kingdom in
which the Secretary of State considers children are at a high risk of sexual
abuse or sexual exploitation from United Kingdom nationals or United Kingdom
residents, or

172.1.b

direct a relevant person to prepare a list of countries and territories
outside the United Kingdom in which the relevant person considers children are
at a high risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation from United Kingdom
nationals or United Kingdom residents.

172.2

If a list is prepared by the Secretary of State, the Secretary of State must
lay the list before Parliament.

172.3

If a list is prepared by a relevant person—

172.3.a

the relevant person must submit the list to the Secretary of State, and

172.3.b

the Secretary of State must lay the list before Parliament.

172.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after a list has been laid before
Parliament, the person who prepared the list must publish it.

172.5

A list published under subsection (4) has effect for the purposes of—

172.5.a

section 346 of the Sentencing Code (exercise of power to make sexual harm
prevention order),

172.5.b

section 350 of the Sentencing Code (sexual harm prevention orders: variations,
renewals and discharges),

172.5.c

section 103A of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (sexual harm prevention orders:
applications and grounds),

172.5.d

section 103E of that Act (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals
and discharges),

172.5.e

section 103F of that Act (interim sexual harm prevention orders),

172.5.f

section 122A of that Act (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and
effect),

172.5.g

section 122D of that Act (sexual risk orders: variations, renewals and
discharges),

172.5.h

section 122E of that Act (interim sexual risk orders),

172.5.i

section 136ZG of that Act (variation of sexual harm prevention order made in
Scotland by court in England and Wales),

172.5.j

section 136ZH of that Act (variation of sexual offences prevention order or
foreign travel order by court in England and Wales), and

172.5.k

section 136ZI of that Act (variation of sexual risk order made in Scotland by
court in England and Wales).

172.6

If a list has been published, the person who prepared it must keep it under
review and may, from time to time, prepare a revised list (but see subsections
(7) and (8)).

172.7

If the function under subsection (6) is for the time being exercisable by the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of State may direct a relevant person to
exercise that function.

172.8

If the function under subsection (6) is for the time being exercisable by a
relevant person, the Secretary of State may direct that the function is to be
exercisable by another relevant person or by the Secretary of State.

172.9

A list published under this section may at any time be withdrawn by the
Secretary of State.

172.10

Subsections (2) to (9) apply to a revised list as they apply to a list
prepared under subsection (1).

172.11

In this section—

“ child ” means a person under 18; “ relevant person ” means a person whose
statutory functions relate to— the prevention or detection of crime, or other
law enforcement purposes; “ United Kingdom national ” means— a British
citizen, a British overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas)
or a British Overseas citizen, a person who under the British Nationality Act
1981 is a British subject, or a British protected person within the meaning of
that Act; “ United Kingdom resident ” means an individual who is resident in
the United Kingdom.

###### Requirement for courts and certain persons to have regard to the list of countries

173

173.1

In section 346 of the Sentencing Code (exercise of power to make sexual harm
prevention order)—

173.1.a

the existing text becomes subsection (1), and

173.1.b

after that subsection insert—

173.1.b.2

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at a high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, the
court must have regard to the list in considering—

173.1.b.2.a

whether a sexual harm prevention order is necessary for the purpose of
protecting children generally, or any particular children, from sexual harm
from the offender outside the United Kingdom, and

173.1.b.2.b

in particular, whether a prohibition on foreign travel (see section 348) is
necessary for that purpose.

173.2

In section 350 of the Sentencing Code (sexual harm prevention orders:
variations, renewals and discharges)—

173.2.a

after subsection (3) insert—

173.2.a.3A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (2)(b) or (c) must have regard to the list in
considering—

173.2.a.3A.a

whether to apply for an order varying or renewing a sexual harm prevention
order for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular
children, from sexual harm from the offender outside the United Kingdom, and

173.2.a.3A.b

in particular, whether to apply for an order imposing, varying or renewing a
prohibition on foreign travel for that purpose.

, and

173.2.b

after subsection (6A) (inserted by section 175) insert—

173.2.b.6B

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.2.b.6B.a

whether an order varying or renewing the sexual harm prevention order is
necessary for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular
children, from sexual harm from the offender outside the United Kingdom, and

173.2.b.6B.b

in particular, whether an order imposing, varying or renewing a prohibition on
foreign travel is necessary for that purpose.

173.3

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

173.4

In section 103A (sexual harm prevention orders: applications and grounds)—

173.4.a

after subsection (3) insert—

173.4.a.3A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, the
court must have regard to the list in considering—

173.4.a.3A.a

whether a sexual harm prevention order is necessary for the purpose of
protecting children generally, or any particular children, from sexual harm
from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.4.a.3A.b

in particular, whether a prohibition on foreign travel (see section 103D) is
necessary for that purpose.

, and

173.4.b

after subsection (4A) (inserted by section 171) insert—

173.4.b.4B

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, a person mentioned
in subsection (4A) must have regard to the list in considering—

173.4.b.4B.a

whether a person has since the appropriate date acted in such a way as to give
reasonable cause to believe that it is necessary for a sexual harm prevention
order to be made for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any
particular children, from sexual harm from that person outside the United
Kingdom, and

173.4.b.4B.b

whether to apply for a prohibition on foreign travel (see section 103D) to be
included in any such order for that purpose.

173.5

In section 103E (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals and
discharges)—

173.5.a

after subsection (2) insert—

173.5.a.2A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (2)(b) to (d) must have regard to the list in
considering—

173.5.a.2A.a

whether to apply for an order varying or renewing a sexual harm prevention
order for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular
children, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.5.a.2A.b

in particular, whether to apply for an order imposing, varying or renewing a
prohibition on foreign travel for that purpose.

,

173.5.b

after subsection (5A) (inserted by section 175) insert—

173.5.b.5B

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.5.b.5B.a

whether any order varying or renewing the sexual harm prevention order is
necessary for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular
children, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.5.b.5B.b

in particular, whether an order imposing, varying or renewing a prohibition on
foreign travel is necessary for that purpose.

, and

173.5.c

in subsection (6), for “subsection (5)” substitute  “subsections (2A), (5) and
(5B)” .

173.6

In section 103F (interim sexual harm prevention orders)—

173.6.a

after subsection (2) insert—

173.6.a.2A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person who has made, or is considering making, an application under section
103A(4) must have regard to the list in considering—

173.6.a.2A.a

whether to apply for an interim sexual harm prevention order for the purpose
of protecting children generally, or any particular children, from sexual harm
from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.6.a.2A.b

in particular, whether to apply for a prohibition on foreign travel to be
included in any such order for that purpose.

,

173.6.b

after subsection (3) insert—

173.6.b.3A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.6.b.3A.a

whether to make an interim sexual harm prevention order for the purpose of
protecting children generally, or any particular children, from sexual harm
from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.6.b.3A.b

in particular, whether to include in any such order a prohibition on foreign
travel for that purpose.

, and

173.6.c

after subsection (5) insert—

173.6.c.6

Subsections (2A) and (3A) apply in relation to an application for the
variation or renewal of an interim sexual harm prevention order as they apply
in relation to an application for such an order.

173.7

In section 122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect)—

173.7.a

after subsection (2) insert—

173.7.a.2A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (1A) must have regard to the list in
considering—

173.7.a.2A.a

whether as a result of the act mentioned in subsection (2) there is reasonable
cause to believe that it is necessary for a sexual risk order to be made for
the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children, from
harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.7.a.2A.b

whether to apply for a prohibition on foreign travel (see section 122C) to be
included in any such order for that purpose.

, and

173.7.b

after subsection (6) insert—

173.7.b.6A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.7.b.6A.a

whether a sexual risk order is necessary for the purpose of protecting
children generally, or any particular children, from harm from the defendant
outside the United Kingdom, and

173.7.b.6A.b

in particular, whether a prohibition on foreign travel (see section 122C) is
necessary for that purpose.

173.8

In section 122D (sexual risk order: variations, renewals and discharges),

173.8.a

after subsection (2) insert—

173.8.a.2A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (2)(b) to (d) must have regard to the list in
considering—

173.8.a.2A.a

whether to apply for an order varying or renewing a sexual risk order for the
purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children, from
harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.8.a.2A.b

in particular, whether to apply for an order imposing, varying or renewing a
prohibition on foreign travel for that purpose.

,

173.8.b

in subsection (3) for “the application” substitute  “an application made under
this section” , and

173.8.c

after subsection (4A) (inserted by section 176) insert—

173.8.c.4B

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.8.c.4B.a

whether any order varying or renewing the sexual risk order is necessary for
the purposes of protecting children generally, or any particular children,
from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.8.c.4B.b

in particular, whether an order imposing, varying or renewing a prohibition on
foreign travel is necessary for that purpose.

173.9

In section 122E (interim sexual risk orders)—

173.9.a

after subsection (2) insert—

173.9.a.2A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person who has made, or is considering making, an application for a sexual
risk order must have regard to the list in considering—

173.9.a.2A.a

whether to apply for an interim sexual risk order for the purpose of
protecting children generally, or any particular children, from harm from the
defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

173.9.a.2A.b

in particular, whether to apply for a prohibition on foreign travel to be
included in any such order for that purpose.

,

173.9.b

after subsection (3) insert—

173.9.b.3A

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

173.9.b.3A.a

whether to make an interim sexual risk order for the purpose of protecting
children generally, or any particular children, from harm from the defendant
outside the United Kingdom, and

173.9.b.3A.b

in particular, whether to include a prohibition on foreign travel in any such
order for that purpose.

, and

173.9.c

after subsection (5) insert—

173.9.c.6

Subsections (2A) and (3A) apply in relation to an application for the
variation or renewal of an interim sexual risk order as they apply in relation
to an application for such an order.

###### Standard of proof

174

174.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

174.2

In section 103A(3) (sexual harm prevention orders: applications and grounds)—

174.2.a

omit “and” at the end of paragraph (a), and

174.2.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

174.2.b.b

the court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that since the
appropriate date the defendant has acted in one or more of the ways alleged by
the person making the application, and

174.2.b.c

the court is satisfied that the defendant having acted in such a way makes it
necessary to make a sexual harm prevention order, for the purpose of—

174.2.b.c.i

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from sexual harm
from the defendant, or

174.2.b.c.ii

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

174.3

In section 122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect), for
subsection (6) substitute—

174.3.6

On an application under subsection (1), the court may make a sexual risk order
if—

174.3.6.a

the court is satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the defendant has,
whether before or after the commencement of this Part, done one or more of the
acts of a sexual nature alleged by the person making the application, and

174.3.6.b

the court is satisfied that as a result of the defendant acting in such a way
it is necessary to make such an order for the purpose of—

174.3.6.b.i

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from harm from
the defendant, or

174.3.6.b.ii

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

###### Sexual harm prevention orders: power to impose positive requirements

175

175.1

The Sentencing Code is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (6).

175.2

In section 343 (sexual harm prevention order)—

175.2.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

175.2.a.1

In this Code a “ sexual harm prevention order ” means an order made under this
Chapter in respect of an offender.

175.2.a.1A

A sexual harm prevention order may—

175.2.a.1A.a

prohibit the offender from doing anything described in the order;

175.2.a.1A.b

require the offender to do anything described in the order.

,

175.b

in subsection (2), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” , and

175.c

after subsection (2) insert—

175.c.3

The prohibitions or requirements which are imposed on the offender by a sexual
harm prevention order must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

175.c.3.a

any conflict with the offender’s religious beliefs,

175.c.3.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the offender normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

175.c.3.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the offender
may be subject (but see section 349).

175.3

In section 347 (sexual harm prevention order: matters to be specified)—

175.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “prohibitions” insert  “and requirements” ,

175.3.b

in subsection (1)(b)—

175.3.b.i

after “each prohibition” insert  “or requirement” , and

175.3.b.ii

for ““prohibition period”” substitute  ““specified period”” ,

175.3.c

in subsection (2)—

175.3.c.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “prohibition period” substitute
“specified period” , and

175.3.c.ii

in paragraph (b), after “prohibition” insert  “or requirement” , and

175.3.d

in subsection (3), after “prohibitions”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
requirements” .

175.4

After section 347 insert—

############ Sexual harm prevention orders: requirements included in order etc.

175.4.347A

175.4.347A.1

A sexual harm prevention order that imposes a requirement to do something on
an offender must specify a person who is to be responsible for supervising
compliance with the requirement.

The person may be an individual or an organisation.

175.4.347A.2

Before including such a requirement in a sexual harm prevention order, the
court must receive evidence about its suitability and enforceability from—

175.4.347A.2.a

the individual to be specified under subsection (1), if an individual is to be
specified;

175.4.347A.2.b

an individual representing the organisation to be specified under subsection
(1), if an organisation is to be specified.

175.4.347A.3

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to electronic monitoring
requirements (see instead section 348A(5) and (6)).

175.4.347A.4

It is the duty of a person specified under subsection (1)—

175.4.347A.4.a

to make any necessary arrangements in connection with the requirements for
which the person has responsibility (“the relevant requirements”);

175.4.347A.4.b

to promote the offender’s compliance with the relevant requirements;

175.4.347A.4.c

if the person considers that—

175.4.347A.4.c.i

the offender has complied with all the relevant requirements, or

175.4.347A.4.c.ii

the offender has failed to comply with a relevant requirement,

to inform the appropriate chief officer of police.

175.4.347A.5

In subsection (4)(c) the “appropriate chief officer of police means—

175.4.347A.5.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in which it appears to the
person specified under subsection (1) that the offender lives, or

175.4.347A.5.b

if it appears to that person that the offender lives in more than one police
area, whichever of the chief officers of police of those areas the person
thinks it is most appropriate to inform.

175.4.347A.6

An offender subject to a requirement imposed by a sexual harm prevention order
must—

175.4.347A.6.a

keep in touch with the person specified under subsection (1) in relation to
that requirement, in accordance with any instructions given by that person
from time to time, and

175.4.347A.6.b

notify that person of any change of the offender’s home address.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the order.

175.4.347A.7

In this section “ home address ”, in relation to an offender, means—

175.4.347A.7.a

the address of the offender’s sole or main residence in the United Kingdom, or

175.4.347A.7.b

where the offender has no such residence, the address or location of a place
in the United Kingdom where the offender can regularly be found and, if there
is more than one such place, such one of those places as the offender may
select.

175.5

In section 350 (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals and
discharges)—

175.5.a

in subsection (6)—

175.5.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions” insert  “or
requirements” , and

175.5.a.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “prohibitions” insert  “and
requirements” ,

175.5.b

after subsection (6) insert—

175.5.b.6A

Any additional prohibitions or requirements that are imposed on the offender
must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

175.5.b.6A.a

any conflict with the offender’s religious beliefs,

175.5.b.6A.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the offender normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

175.5.b.6A.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the offender
may be subject.

, and

175.5.c

in subsection (8), after “other prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” .

175.6

In section 354 (offence: breach of sexual harm prevention order)—

175.6.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

175.6.a.1

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person—

175.6.a.1.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a sexual harm
prevention order, or

175.6.a.1.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a sexual harm
prevention order.

,

175.6.b

in subsection (2), for “doing anything prohibited by such an order” substitute
“breaching such an order” , and

175.6.c

omit subsection (3).

175.7

In paragraph 98 of Schedule 22 to the Sentencing Act 2020 (amendment of
section 354 of the Sentencing Code), in the substituted subsection (2) for
“doing anything prohibited by such an order”  substitute “breaching such an
order”.

175.8

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

175.9

In section 103C (sexual harm prevention orders: effect)—

175.9.a

for subsection (1) substitute—

175.9.a.1

A sexual harm prevention order may—

175.9.a.1.a

prohibit the defendant from doing anything described in the order;

175.9.a.1.b

require the defendant to do anything described in the order.

,

175.9.b

in subsection (2), after “prohibition” insert  “or requirement” ,

175.9.c

in subsection (3), after “prohibitions”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or
requirements” ,

175.9.d

in subsection (4), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” , and

175.9.e

after subsection (4) insert—

175.9.e.4A

The prohibitions or requirements which are imposed on the defendant by a
sexual harm prevention order must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

175.9.e.4A.a

any conflict with the defendant’s religious beliefs,

175.9.e.4A.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the defendant normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

175.9.e.4A.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the defendant
may be subject (but see subsection (6)).

175.10

After section 103C insert—

############ SHPOs: requirements included in order etc.

175.10.103CA

175.10.103CA.1

A sexual harm prevention order that imposes a requirement to do something on a
defendant must specify a person who is to be responsible for supervising
compliance with the requirement.

The person may be an individual or an organisation.

175.10.103CA.2

Before including such a requirement in a sexual harm prevention order, the
court must receive evidence about its suitability and enforceability from—

175.10.103CA.2.a

the individual to be specified under subsection (1), if an individual is to be
specified;

175.10.103CA.2.b

an individual representing the organisation to be specified under subsection
(1), if an organisation is to be specified.

175.10.103CA.3

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to electronic monitoring
requirements (see instead section 103FA(5) and (6)).

175.10.103CA.4

It is the duty of a person specified under subsection (1)—

175.10.103CA.4.a

to make any necessary arrangements in connection with the requirements for
which the person has responsibility (“the relevant requirements”);

175.10.103CA.4.b

to promote the defendant’s compliance with the relevant requirements;

175.10.103CA.4.c

if the person considers that—

175.10.103CA.4.c.i

the defendant has complied with all the relevant requirements, or

175.10.103CA.4.c.ii

the defendant has failed to comply with a relevant requirement,

to inform the appropriate chief officer of police.

175.10.103CA.5

In subsection (4)(c) the “appropriate chief officer of police means—

175.10.103CA.5.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in which it appears to the
person specified under subsection (1) that the defendant resides, or

175.10.103CA.5.b

if it appears to that person that the defendant resides in more than one
police area, whichever of the chief officers of police of those areas the
person thinks it is most appropriate to inform.

175.10.103CA.6

A defendant subject to a requirement imposed by a sexual harm prevention order
must—

175.10.103CA.6.a

keep in touch with the person specified under subsection (1) in relation to
that requirement, in accordance with any instructions given by that person
from time to time, and

175.10.103CA.6.b

notify that person of any change of the defendant’s home address.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the order.

175.11

In section 103E (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals and
discharges)—

175.11.a

in subsection (5)—

175.11.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions” insert  “or
requirements” , and

175.11.a.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “prohibitions” insert  “and
requirements” ,

175.11.b

after subsection (5) insert—

175.11.b.5A

Any additional prohibitions or requirements that are imposed on the defendant
must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

175.11.b.5A.a

any conflict with the defendant’s religious beliefs,

175.11.b.5A.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the defendant normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

175.11.b.5A.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the defendant
may be subject.

, and

175.11.c

in subsection (8), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” .

175.12

In section 103F(3) (interim sexual harm prevention orders), for the words from
“, prohibiting the defendant” to the end of the subsection substitute  “—

175.12.a

prohibiting the defendant from doing anything described in the order;

175.12.b

requiring the defendant to do anything described in the order.”

175.13

In section 103I (offence: breach of sexual harm prevention order or interim
sexual harm prevention order)—

175.13.a

before subsection (1) insert—

175.13.a.A1

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

175.13.a.A1.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a sexual harm
prevention order or an interim sexual harm prevention order, or

175.13.a.A1.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a sexual harm
prevention order or an interim sexual harm prevention order,

commits an offence.

,

175.13.b

in subsection (1), omit paragraphs (a) and (b), and

175.13.c

omit subsection (2).

###### Sexual risk orders: power to impose positive requirements

176

176.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

176.2

In section 122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect)—

176.2.a

for subsection (7) substitute—

176.2.a.7

A sexual risk order may—

176.2.a.7.a

prohibit the defendant from doing anything described in the order;

176.2.a.7.b

require the defendant to do anything described in the order.

,

176.2.b

in subsection (8), for the words from “may specify” to the end of the
subsection substitute

—

176.2.b.a

has effect for a fixed period (not less than 2 years) specified in the order
or until further order, and

176.2.b.b

may specify different periods for different prohibitions or requirements.

,

176.2.c

in subsection (9), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” , and

176.2.d

after subsection (9) insert—

176.2.d.9A

The prohibitions or requirements which are imposed on the defendant by a
sexual risk order must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

176.2.d.9A.a

any conflict with the defendant’s religious beliefs,

176.2.d.9A.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the defendant normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

176.2.d.9A.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the defendant
may be subject (but see subsection (10)).

176.3

After section 122B insert—

############ Sexual risk orders: requirements included in order etc.

176.3.122BA

176.3.122BA.1

A sexual risk order that imposes a requirement to do something on a defendant
must specify a person who is to be responsible for supervising compliance with
the requirement.

The person may be an individual or an organisation.

176.3.122BA.2

Before including such a requirement in a sexual risk order, the court must
receive evidence about its suitability and enforceability from—

176.3.122BA.2.a

the individual to be specified under subsection (1), if an individual is to be
specified;

176.3.122BA.2.b

an individual representing the organisation to be specified under subsection
(1), if an organisation is to be specified.

176.3.122BA.3

Subsections (1) and (2) do not apply in relation to electronic monitoring
requirements (see instead section 122EA(5) and (6)).

176.3.122BA.4

It is the duty of a person specified under subsection (1)—

176.3.122BA.4.a

to make any necessary arrangements in connection with the requirements for
which the person has responsibility (“the relevant requirements”);

176.3.122BA.4.b

to promote the defendant’s compliance with the relevant requirements;

176.3.122BA.4.c

if the person considers that—

176.3.122BA.4.c.i

the defendant has complied with all the relevant requirements, or

176.3.122BA.4.c.ii

the defendant has failed to comply with a relevant requirement,

to inform the appropriate chief officer of police.

176.3.122BA.5

In subsection (4)(c) the “appropriate chief officer of police means—

176.3.122BA.5.a

the chief officer of police for the police area in which it appears to the
person specified under subsection (1) that the defendant resides, or

176.3.122BA.5.b

if it appears to that person that the defendant resides in more than one
police area, whichever of the chief officers of police of those areas the
person thinks it is most appropriate to inform.

176.3.122BA.6

A defendant subject to a requirement imposed by a sexual risk order must—

176.3.122BA.6.a

keep in touch with the person specified under subsection (1) in relation to
that requirement, in accordance with any instructions given by that person
from time to time, and

176.3.122BA.6.b

notify that person of any change of the defendant’s home address.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the order.

176.4

In section 122D (sexual risk orders: variations, renewals and discharges)—

176.4.a

in subsection (4)—

176.4.a.i

in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions” insert  “or
requirements” , and

176.4.a.ii

in the words after paragraph (b), after “prohibitions” insert  “and
requirements” , and

176.4.b

after that subsection, insert—

176.4.b.4A

Any additional prohibitions or requirements that are imposed on the defendant
must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

176.4.b.4A.a

any conflict with the defendant’s religious beliefs,

176.4.b.4A.b

any interference with the times, if any, at which the defendant normally works
or attends any educational establishment, and

176.4.b.4A.c

any conflict with any other court order or injunction to which the defendant
may be subject.

176.5

In section 122E(3) (interim sexual risk orders), for the words from “,
prohibiting the defendant” to the end of the subsection substitute  “—

176.5.a

prohibiting the defendant from doing anything described in the order;

176.5.b

requiring the defendant to do anything described in the order.”

176.6

In section 122H (offence: breach of sexual risk order or interim sexual risk
order etc)—

176.6.a

before subsection (1) insert—

176.6.a.A1

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

176.6.a.A1.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a sexual risk order
or an interim sexual risk order, or

176.6.a.A1.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a sexual risk order
or an interim sexual risk order,

commits an offence.

,

176.6.b

in subsection (1), omit paragraphs (a) and (b), and

176.6.c

omit subsection (2).

###### Positive requirements: further amendments

177

177.1

In section 351 of the Sentencing Code (variation of sexual harm prevention
order by court in Northern Ireland)—

177.1.a

in subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “or requirements” , and

177.1.b

in subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “and requirements” .

177.2

In section 113 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (offence: breach of SOPO or
interim SOPO etc), for subsection (1ZA) substitute—

177.2.1ZA

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person—

177.2.1ZA.a

contravenes a prohibition imposed by—

177.2.1ZA.a.i

a sexual harm prevention order,

177.2.1ZA.a.ii

an order under Chapter 2 of Part 11 of the Sentencing Code (sexual harm
prevention order on conviction), or

177.2.1ZA.a.iii

an interim sexual harm prevention order,

other than a prohibition on foreign travel, or

177.2.1ZA.b

fails to comply with a requirement imposed by—

177.2.1ZA.b.i

a sexual harm prevention order,

177.2.1ZA.b.ii

an order under Chapter 2 of Part 11 of the Sentencing Code (sexual harm
prevention order on conviction), or

177.2.1ZA.b.iii

an interim sexual harm prevention order.

177.3

In section 128 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (offence: breach of RSHO or
interim RSHO etc)—

177.3.a

in subsection (1) omit paragraphs (c) and (d), and

177.3.b

after subsection (1) insert—

177.3.b.1A

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

177.3.b.1A.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a sexual risk order
or an interim sexual risk order, or

177.3.b.1A.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a sexual risk order
or an interim sexual risk order,

commits an offence.

177.4

In section 136ZA(2) of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (application of orders
throughout the United Kingdom), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements”
.

177.5

In section 136ZC of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (variation of sexual harm
prevention order by court in Northern Ireland)—

177.5.a

in subsection (5), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “or requirements” , and

177.5.b

in subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “and requirements” .

177.6

In section 136ZD of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (variation of sexual risk
order by court in Northern Ireland)—

177.6.a

in subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “or requirements” , and

177.6.b

in subsection (5), in the words before paragraph (a), after “prohibitions”
insert  “and requirements” .

177.7

In section 37 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 22)  (breach of orders equivalent to orders in Chapters 3 and 4:
offence)—

177.7.a

after subsection (1) insert—

177.7.a.1A

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person fails to
do something which the person is required to do by an equivalent order from
elsewhere in the United Kingdom.

,

177.7.b

in each of subsections (2) and (3), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1A)” ,
and

177.7.c

in subsection (4), after “prohibitions” insert  “or requirements” .

###### Electronic monitoring requirements

178

178.1

The Sentencing Code is amended in accordance with subsections (2) to (5).

178.2

In section 343 (sexual harm prevention order), after subsection (3) (inserted
by section 175 of this Act) insert—

178.2.4

A sexual harm prevention order may require the offender to submit to
electronic monitoring of the offender’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order (see section 348A for further provision
about such a requirement).

178.3

In section 347 (sexual harm prevention orders: matters to be specified)—

178.3.a

in subsection (1), in the words after paragraph (b), after “United Kingdom”
insert  “and section 348A for further matters to be included in the case of an
electronic monitoring requirement” , and

178.3.b

in subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), after “travel)” insert
“and section 348A(8) (electronic monitoring requirements)” .

178.4

After section 348 insert—

############ Sexual harm prevention orders: electronic monitoring requirements

178.4.348A

178.4.348A.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply for the purpose of determining whether a
court may impose, under section 343(4), an electronic monitoring requirement
on the offender in a sexual harm prevention order.

178.4.348A.2

If there is a person (other than the offender) without whose co-operation it
would be impracticable to secure the monitoring in question, the requirement
may not be imposed without that person’s consent.

178.4.348A.3

The court may impose the requirement only if—

178.4.348A.3.a

it has been notified by the Secretary of State that electronic monitoring
arrangements are available in the relevant area, and

178.4.348A.3.b

it is satisfied that the necessary provision can be made under the
arrangements currently available.

178.4.348A.4

In subsection (3)(a) “ the relevant area ” means—

178.4.348A.4.a

the local justice area in which it appears to the court that the offender
resides or will reside, and

178.4.348A.4.b

in a case where it is proposed to include in the order—

178.4.348A.4.b.i

a requirement that the offender must remain, for specified periods, at a
specified place, or

178.4.348A.4.b.ii

a provision prohibiting the offender from entering a specified place or area,

the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to be specified is
situated.

“ Specified ” means specified in the sexual harm prevention order under which
the electronic monitoring requirement is imposed.

178.4.348A.5

A sexual harm prevention order that includes an electronic monitoring
requirement must specify the person who is to be responsible for the
monitoring.

178.4.348A.6

The person specified under subsection (5) (“the responsible person”) must be
of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

178.4.348A.7

Where a sexual harm prevention order imposes an electronic monitoring
requirement on the offender, the offender must (among other things)—

178.4.348A.7.a

submit, as required from time to time by the responsible person, to—

178.4.348A.7.a.i

being fitted with, or the installation of, any necessary apparatus, and

178.4.348A.7.a.ii

the inspection or repair of any apparatus fitted or installed for the purposes
of the monitoring,

178.4.348A.7.b

not interfere with, or with the working of, any apparatus fitted or installed
for the purposes of the monitoring, and

178.4.348A.7.c

take any steps required by the responsible person for the purpose of keeping
in working order any apparatus fitted or installed for the purpose of the
monitoring.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the sexual harm prevention
order under which the electronic monitoring requirement is imposed.

178.4.348A.8

A sexual harm prevention order may not provide for an electronic monitoring
requirement to have effect for more than 12 months.

178.4.348A.9

Subsection (8) does not prevent an electronic monitoring requirement from
being extended for a further period (of no more than 12 months each time)
under section 350.

############ Data from electronic monitoring: code of practice

178.4.348B

178.4.348B.1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice relating to the
processing of data gathered in the course of electronic monitoring of
offenders under electronic monitoring requirements imposed by sexual harm
prevention orders.

178.4.348B.2

A failure to observe a code issued under this section does not of itself make
a person liable to any criminal or civil proceedings.

178.5

In section 350 (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals,
discharges), after subsection (6B) (inserted by section 173 of this Act)
insert—

178.5.6C

Section 348A (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

178.5.6C.a

the variation of an order to require the defendant to submit to electronic
monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order, or

178.5.6C.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual harm prevention order,
subject to subsection (6D).

178.5.6D

In its application to the variation or renewal of an order, section 348A(4)(b)
has effect as if—

178.5.6D.a

the reference to a case where it is proposed to include in the order a
requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) included a
case where the order already includes such a requirement or provision, and

178.5.6D.b

the reference to the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to
be specified is situated included the local justice area in which the place or
area already specified is situated.

178.6

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended in accordance with subsections  (7)
to  (16) .

178.7

In section 103C (sexual harm prevention orders: effect)—

178.7.a

in subsection (2), for “section 103D(1)” substitute  “sections 103D(1) and
103FA(8)” , and

178.7.b

after subsection (4A) (inserted by section 175 of this Act) insert—

178.7.b.4B

A sexual harm prevention order may require the defendant to submit to
electronic monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order (see section 103FA for further provision
about such a requirement).

178.8

In section 103E (sexual harm prevention orders: variations, renewals and
discharges) after subsection (5B) (inserted by section 173 of this Act)
insert—

178.8.5C

Section 103FA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

178.8.5C.a

the variation of an order to require the defendant to submit to electronic
monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order, or

178.8.5C.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual harm prevention order,
subject to subsection (5D).

178.8.5D

In its application to the variation or renewal of an order, section
103FA(4)(b) has effect as if—

178.8.5D.a

the reference to a case where it is proposed to include in the order a
requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) included a
case where the order already includes such a requirement or provision, and

178.8.5D.b

the reference to the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to
be specified is situated included the local justice area in which the place or
area already specified is situated.

178.9

In section 103F (interim sexual harm prevention orders)—

178.9.a

after subsection (3A) (inserted by section 173 of this Act) insert—

178.9.a.3B

An interim sexual harm prevention order may require the defendant to submit to
electronic monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order (see section 103FA for further provision
about such a requirement).

, and

178.9.b

in subsection (4) for “Such an order” substitute  “An interim sexual harm
prevention order” .

178.10

After section 103F insert—

############ SHPOs and interim SHPOs: electronic monitoring requirements

178.10.103FA

178.10.103FA.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply for the purpose of determining whether a
court may impose, under section 103C(4B) or section 103F(3B), an electronic
monitoring requirement on the defendant in a sexual harm prevention order or
interim sexual harm prevention order.

178.10.103FA.2

If there is a person (other than the defendant) without whose co-operation it
would be impracticable to secure the monitoring in question, the requirement
may not be imposed without that person’s consent.

178.10.103FA.3

The court may impose the requirement only if—

178.10.103FA.3.a

it has been notified by the Secretary of State that electronic monitoring
arrangements are available in the relevant area, and

178.10.103FA.3.b

it is satisfied that the necessary provision can be made under the
arrangements currently available.

178.10.103FA.4

In subsection (3)(a) “ the relevant area ” means—

178.10.103FA.4.a

the local justice area in which it appears to the court that the defendant
resides or will reside, and

178.10.103FA.4.b

in a case where it is proposed to include in the order—

178.10.103FA.4.b.i

a requirement that the defendant must remain, for specified periods, at a
specified place, or

178.10.103FA.4.b.ii

a provision prohibiting the defendant from entering a specified place or area,

the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to be specified is
situated.

“ Specified ” means specified in the sexual harm prevention order or interim
sexual harm prevention order under which the electronic monitoring requirement
is imposed.

178.10.103FA.5

A sexual harm prevention order or interim sexual harm prevention order that
includes an electronic monitoring requirement must specify the person who is
to be responsible for the monitoring.

178.10.103FA.6

The person specified under subsection (5) (“the responsible person”) must be
of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

178.10.103FA.7

Where a sexual harm prevention order or interim sexual harm prevention order
imposes an electronic monitoring requirement on the defendant, the defendant
must (among other things)—

178.10.103FA.7.a

submit, as required from time to time by the responsible person, to—

178.10.103FA.7.a.i

being fitted with, or the installation of, any necessary apparatus, and

178.10.103FA.7.a.ii

the inspection or repair of any apparatus fitted or installed for the purposes
of the monitoring,

178.10.103FA.7.b

not interfere with, or with the working of, any apparatus fitted or installed
for the purposes of the monitoring, and

178.10.103FA.7.c

take any steps required by the responsible person for the purpose of keeping
in working order any apparatus fitted or installed for the purpose of the
monitoring.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the sexual harm prevention
order or interim sexual harm prevention order under which the electronic
monitoring requirement is imposed.

178.10.103FA.8

A sexual harm prevention order or an interim sexual harm prevention order may
not provide for an electronic monitoring requirement to have effect for more
than 12 months.

178.10.103FA.9

Subsection (8) does not prevent an electronic monitoring requirement from
being extended for a further period (of no more than 12 months each time)
under section 103E.

############ Data from electronic monitoring: code of practice

178.10.103FB

178.10.103FB.1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice relating to the
processing of data gathered in the course of electronic monitoring of
defendants under electronic monitoring requirements imposed by—

178.10.103FB.1.a

sexual harm prevention orders,

178.10.103FB.1.b

relevant Scottish orders within the meaning of section 136ZG that have been
renewed or varied as mentioned in subsection (11) of that section (variation
etc by court in England and Wales to impose electronic monitoring
requirement), and

178.10.103FB.1.c

sexual offences prevention orders that have been renewed or varied as
mentioned in section 136ZH(10) (variation etc by court in England and Wales to
impose electronic monitoring requirement).

178.10.103FB.2

A failure to observe a code issued under this section does not of itself make
a person liable to any criminal or civil proceedings.

178.11

In section 122A (sexual risk orders: applications, grounds and effect)—

178.11.a

after subsection (8) insert—

178.11.a.8A

Subsection (8) is subject to section 122C(1) (duration of prohibitions on
foreign travel) and section 122EA(8) (duration of electronic monitoring
requirements).

, and

178.11.b

after subsection (9A) (as inserted by section 176 of this Act) insert—

178.11.b.9B

A sexual risk order may require the defendant to submit to electronic
monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order (see section 122EA for further provision
about such a requirement).

178.12

In section 122D (sexual risk orders: variations, renewals and discharges)
after subsection (4B) (inserted by section 173 of this Act) insert—

178.12.4C

Section 122EA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

178.12.4C.a

the variation of an order to require the defendant to submit to electronic
monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order, or

178.12.4C.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual risk order, subject to
subsection (4D).

178.12.4D

In its application to the variation or renewal of an order, section
122EA(4)(b) has effect as if—

178.12.4D.a

the reference to a case where it is proposed to include in the order a
requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) included a
case where the order already includes such a requirement or provision, and

178.12.4D.b

the reference to the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to
be specified is situated included the local justice area in which the place or
area already specified is situated.

178.13

In section 122E (interim sexual risk orders)—

178.13.a

after subsection (3A) (inserted by section 173 of this Act) insert—

178.13.a.3B

An interim sexual risk order may require the defendant to submit to electronic
monitoring of the defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and
requirements imposed by the order (see section 122EA for further provision
about such a requirement).

, and

178.13.b

in subsection (4) for “Such an order” substitute  “An interim sexual risk
order” .

178.14

After section 122E insert—

############ Sexual risk orders and interim sexual risk orders: electronic monitoring requirements

178.14.122EA

178.14.122EA.1

Subsections  (2)  and  (3)  apply for the purpose of determining whether a
court may impose, under section 122A(9B) or section 122E(3B), an electronic
monitoring requirement on the defendant in a sexual risk order or interim
sexual risk order.

178.14.122EA.2

If there is a person (other than the defendant) without whose co-operation it
would be impracticable to secure the monitoring in question, the requirement
may not be imposed without that person’s consent.

178.14.122EA.3

The court may impose the requirement only if—

178.14.122EA.3.a

it has been notified by the Secretary of State that electronic monitoring
arrangements are available in the relevant area, and

178.14.122EA.3.b

it is satisfied that the necessary provision can be made under the
arrangements currently available.

178.14.122EA.4

In subsection (3)(a) “ the relevant area ” means—

178.14.122EA.4.a

the local justice area in which it appears to the court that the defendant
resides or will reside, and

178.14.122EA.4.b

in a case where it is proposed to include in the order—

178.14.122EA.4.b.i

a requirement that the defendant must remain, for specified periods, at a
specified place, or

178.14.122EA.4.b.ii

a provision prohibiting the defendant from entering a specified place or area,

the local justice area in which the place or area proposed to be specified is
situated.

“ Specified ” means specified in the sexual risk order or interim sexual risk
order under which the electronic monitoring requirement is imposed.

178.14.122EA.5

A sexual risk order or interim sexual risk order that includes an electronic
monitoring requirement must specify the person who is to be responsible for
the monitoring.

178.14.122EA.6

The person specified under subsection (5) (“the responsible person”) must be
of a description specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

178.14.122EA.7

Where a sexual risk order or interim sexual risk order imposes an electronic
monitoring requirement on the defendant, the defendant must (among other
things)—

178.14.122EA.7.a

submit, as required from time to time by the responsible person, to—

178.14.122EA.7.a.i

being fitted with, or the installation of, any necessary apparatus, and

178.14.122EA.7.a.ii

the inspection or repair of any apparatus fitted or installed for the purposes
of the monitoring,

178.14.122EA.7.b

not interfere with, or with the working of, any apparatus fitted or installed
for the purposes of the monitoring, and

178.14.122EA.7.c

take any steps required by the responsible person for the purpose of keeping
in working order any apparatus fitted or installed for the purpose of the
monitoring.

These obligations have effect as requirements of the sexual risk order or
interim sexual risk order under which the electronic monitoring requirement is
imposed.

178.14.122EA.8

A sexual risk order or an interim sexual risk order may not provide for an
electronic monitoring requirement to have effect for more than 12 months.

178.14.122EA.9

Subsection (8) does not prevent an electronic monitoring requirement from
being extended for a further period (of no more than 12 months each time)
under section 122D.

############ Data from electronic monitoring: code of practice

178.14.122EB

178.14.122EB.1

The Secretary of State must issue a code of practice relating to the
processing of data gathered in the course of electronic monitoring of
defendants under electronic monitoring requirements imposed by—

178.14.122EB.1.a

sexual risk orders,

178.14.122EB.1.b

relevant Scottish orders within the meaning of section 136ZI that have been
renewed or varied as mentioned in subsection (11) of that section (variation
etc by court in England and Wales to impose electronic monitoring
requirement), and

178.14.122EB.1.c

risk of sexual harm orders that have been renewed or varied as mentioned in
section 136ZJ(7) (variation etc by court in England and Wales to impose
electronic monitoring requirement).

178.14.122EB.2

A failure to observe a code issued under this section does not of itself make
a person liable to any criminal or civil proceedings.

178.15

In section 136ZA, after subsection (2) insert—

178.15.3

A requirement that is imposed by a relevant order and that relates to the
electronic monitoring of a person’s compliance with the prohibitions or
requirements imposed by the order is to be treated for the purposes of
subsection (2) as a requirement that is expressly confined to a particular
locality.

178.16

In section 138(3), after “containing” insert  “only regulations under section
103FA(6) or section 122EA(6) or” .

###### Positive requirements and electronic monitoring requirements: service courts

179

In section 137(3) of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (service courts: sexual harm
prevention orders)—

179.a

in paragraph (a)—

179.a.i

after “103A(3)” insert  “and (4)” , and

179.a.ii

for the words from “and 103J” to “Sentencing Code” substitute  “, 103FA(3)(a),
(4) and (6) and 103J of this Act, and sections 348A(3)(a), (4) and (6) and 355
to 357 of the Sentencing Code” ,

179.b

in paragraph (b), in the words before sub-paragraph (i)—

179.b.i

for “103A(1) and (2)” substitute  “103A(1), (2) and (3A), and

179.b.ii

for the words from “and 103G” to “Sentencing Code” substitute  “, 103FA(1),
(2), (3)(b) and (5) to (9), 103FB and 103G to 103I of this Act, and sections
343 to 348, 348A(1), (2), (3)(b) and (5) to (9), 348B to 354 and 358 of the
Sentencing Code” ,

179.c

in paragraph (b)(i), after “paragraphs” insert  “(ba), (bb)” ,

179.d

after paragraph (b) insert—

179.d.ba

if section 103CA applies to the defendant at a time when the defendant is a
person subject to service law or a civilian subject to service discipline, the
reference in section 103CA(4)(c) (requirements included in order: report on
compliance) to the appropriate chief officer of police is to be read as a
reference to a Provost Marshal;

179.d.bb

if section 347A applies to the defendant at a time when the defendant is a
person subject to service law or a civilian subject to service discipline, the
reference in section 347A(4)(c) of the Sentencing Code (requirements included
in order: report on compliance) to the appropriate chief office of police is
to be read as a reference to a Provost Marshal;

,

179.e

in paragraph (c), for “Provost Martial”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“Provost Marshal” , and

179.f

in paragraph (c), after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

179.f.ia

the reference in section 103E(2A) to a person mentioned in subsection (2)(b)
to (d) is to be read as a reference to a Provost Marshal;

179.f.ib

the reference in section 350(3A) of the Sentencing Code to a person mentioned
in subsection (2)(b) or (c) is to be read as a reference to a Provost Marshal;

.

##### Orders made in different parts of the United Kingdom

###### Enforcement of requirements of orders made in Scotland or Northern Ireland

180

180.1

The Sexual Offences Act 2003 is amended as follows.

180.2

In section 103I (offence: breach of SHPO or interim SHPO etc), after
subsection (1) insert—

180.2.1A

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to do something that the person
is required to do by a sexual offences prevention order or an interim sexual
offences prevention order commits an offence.

180.2.1B

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

180.2.1B.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a relevant Scottish
order, or

180.2.1B.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a relevant Scottish
order,

commits an offence.

180.2.1C

In subsection (1B) “ relevant Scottish order ” means—

180.2.1C.a

a sexual harm prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) , or

180.2.1C.b

an interim sexual harm prevention order made under section 21 of that Act.

180.3

In section 113 (offence: breach of SOPO or interim SOPO etc), after subsection
(1ZA) insert—

180.3.1ZB

A person commits an offence if, without reasonable excuse, the person—

180.3.1ZB.a

contravenes a prohibition imposed by a relevant Scottish order other than a
prohibition on foreign travel, or

180.3.1ZB.b

fails to comply with a requirement imposed by a relevant Scottish order.

180.3.1ZC

In subsection (1ZB)—

“ prohibition on foreign travel ” has the meaning given by section 17(2) of
the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) ; “
relevant Scottish order ” means— a sexual harm prevention order made under
section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016,
or an interim sexual harm prevention order made under section 21 of that Act.

180.4

In section 122(1) (offence: breach of foreign travel order)—

180.4.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

180.4.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

180.4.b.c

he contravenes a prohibition on foreign travel imposed by a sexual harm
prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and
Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) .

180.5

In section 122H (offence: breach of sexual risk order or interim sexual risk
order etc)—

180.5.a

in subsection (1) omit paragraphs (e) and (f), and

180.5.b

after subsection (1) insert—

180.5.b.1A

A person who, without reasonable excuse, does anything that the person is
required to do by a risk of sexual harm order that has been renewed or varied
as mentioned in section 136ZJ(7) commits an offence.

180.5.b.1B

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

180.5.b.1B.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a relevant Scottish
order, or

180.5.b.1B.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a relevant Scottish
order,

commits an offence.

180.5.b.1C

In subsection (1B) “ relevant Scottish order ” means—

180.5.b.1C.a

a sexual risk order made under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) , or

180.5.b.1C.b

an interim sexual risk order made under section 31 of that Act.

180.6

In section 128 (offence: breach of risk of sexual harm order or interim risk
of sexual harm order etc)—

180.6.a

in subsection (1) omit paragraphs (e) and (f), and

180.6.b

after subsection (1A) (inserted by section 177) insert—

180.6.b.1B

A person who, without reasonable excuse—

180.6.b.1B.a

does anything that the person is prohibited from doing by a relevant Scottish
order, or

180.6.b.1B.b

fails to do something that the person is required to do by a relevant Scottish
order,

commits an offence.

180.6.b.1C

In subsection (1B) “ relevant Scottish order ” means—

180.6.b.1C.a

a sexual risk order made under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) , or

180.6.b.1C.b

an interim sexual risk order made under section 31 of that Act.

180.7

In section 136ZA (application of orders throughout the United Kingdom) in
subsection (1)—

180.7.a

after paragraph (i) insert—

180.7.a.ia

a sexual harm prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) ;

180.7.a.ib

an interim sexual harm prevention order made under section 21 of that Act;

180.7.a.ic

a sexual risk order made under section 27 of that Act;

180.7.a.id

an interim sexual risk order made under section 31 of that Act.

, and

180.7.b

omit paragraphs (j) and (k).

###### Effect of conviction for breach of Scottish order etc

181

181.1

In section 122I of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (effect of conviction etc of
an offence under section 122H etc)—

181.1.a

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (b),

181.1.b

after subsection (2) insert—

181.1.b.2A

This section also applies to a person (“ the defendant ”) who—

181.1.b.2A.a

is convicted of an offence mentioned in subsection (2B),

181.1.b.2A.b

is acquitted of such an offence by reason of the special defence set out in
section 51A of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, or

181.1.b.2A.c

is found, in respect of such an offence, to be unfit for trial under section
53F of that Act in a case where the court determines that the defendant has
done the act constituting the offence.

181.1.b.2B

Those offences are—

181.1.b.2B.a

an offence under section 34 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22)  (breach of sexual risk order or interim sexual
risk order in Scotland);

181.1.b.2B.b

an offence under section 37 of that Act (breach of equivalent orders) in
respect of a breach of an order made under section 122A, 122E, 123 or 126 of
this Act.

,

181.1.c

in subsection (6)—

181.1.c.i

in paragraph (a), for “or caution” substitute  “, caution or acquittal” ,

181.1.c.ii

in that paragraph, after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (2A)” ,

181.1.c.iii

in paragraph (b), for “or caution” substitute  “, caution or acquittal” , and

181.1.c.iv

in that paragraph, after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (2A)” ,

181.1.d

after subsection (6) insert—

181.1.d.6A

In subsection (6) “sexual risk order” and “interim sexual risk order” include
orders under sections 27 and 31 (respectively) of the Abusive Behaviour and
Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

, and

181.1.e

omit subsection (7).

181.2

In section 129 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (effect of conviction etc of an
offence under section 128 etc)—

181.2.a

in subsection (1A), omit paragraph (b),

181.2.b

after subsection (1A) insert—

181.2.b.1B

This section also applies to a person (“ the defendant ”) who—

181.2.b.1B.a

is convicted of an offence mentioned in subsection (1C),

181.2.b.1B.b

is acquitted of such an offence by reason of the special defence set out in
section 51A of the Criminal Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995, or

181.2.b.1B.c

is found, in respect of such an offence, to be unfit for trial under section
53F of that Act in a case where the court determines that the defendant has
done the act constituting the offence.

181.2.b.1C

Those offences are—

181.2.b.1C.a

an offence under section 34 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22)  (breach of sexual risk order or interim sexual
risk order in Scotland);

181.2.b.1C.b

an offence under section 37 of that Act (breach of equivalent orders) in
respect of a breach of an order made under section 122A, 122E, 123 or 126 of
this Act.

,

181.2.c

in subsection (5)—

181.2.c.i

in paragraph (a), for “or caution” substitute  “, caution or acquittal” ,

181.2.c.ii

in that paragraph, after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1B)” ,

181.2.c.iii

in paragraph (b), for “or caution” substitute  “, caution or acquittal” , and

181.2.c.iv

in that paragraph, after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1B)” ,

181.2.d

after subsection (5) insert—

181.2.d.5A

In subsection (5) “sexual risk order” and “interim sexual risk order” include
orders under sections 27 and 31 (respectively) of the Abusive Behaviour and
Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

, and

181.2.e

omit subsection (6).

###### Orders superseding, or superseded by, Scottish orders

182

182.1

In section 349(2) of the Sentencing Code (making of sexual harm prevention
order: effect on other orders)—

182.1.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (a), and

182.1.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, or

182.1.b.c

a sexual harm prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) ,

.

182.2

Section 136ZB of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (order ceases to have effect
when new order made) is amended as follows.

182.3

In subsection (1), in the table—

182.3.a

in the entry relating to a sexual harm prevention order, in the second column,
after “—foreign travel order” insert—

sexual harm prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) .

, and

182.3.b

in the entry relating to a sexual risk order, in the second column, after
“—foreign travel order” insert—

sexual risk order made under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

182.4

In subsection (2)—

182.4.a

in the words before the table—

182.4.a.i

omit “or Scotland”, and

182.4.a.ii

after “England and Wales” insert  “or Scotland” , and

182.4.b

in the table—

182.4.b.i

in the entry relating to a sexual offences prevention order, in the second
column, after “—in the case of a sexual harm prevention order containing a
prohibition on foreign travel, each of its other prohibitions” insert—

sexual harm prevention order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive
Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016 not containing a prohibition on
foreign travel; in the case of a sexual harm prevention order made under
section 11 or 12 of that Act containing a prohibition on foreign travel, each
of its other prohibitions.

,

182.4.b.ii

in the entry relating to a foreign travel order, in the second column, after
“—prohibition on foreign travel contained in a sexual harm prevention order”
insert—

prohibition on foreign travel contained in a sexual harm prevention order made
under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act
2016.

, and

182.4.b.iii

in the entry relating to a risk of sexual harm order, in the second column,
after “—in the case of a sexual risk order containing a prohibition on foreign
travel, each of its other prohibitions” insert—

sexual risk order made under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act 2016 not containing a prohibition on foreign travel; in
the case of a sexual risk order made under section 27 of that Act containing a
prohibition on foreign travel, each of its other prohibitions.

182.5

After subsection (2) insert—

182.5.2ZA

Where a court in Scotland makes an order listed in the first column of the
following Table in relation to a person who is already subject to an order or
prohibition listed opposite it in the second column, the earlier order or
prohibition ceases to have effect (even though it was made or imposed by a
court in England and Wales or Northern Ireland) unless the court orders
otherwise.

New order Earlier order or prohibition Sexual harm prevention order made under
section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016
sexual harm prevention order; sexual offences prevention order; foreign travel
order. Sexual risk order made under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and
Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016 sexual risk order; risk of sexual harm order;
foreign travel order.

182.6

In subsection (2A), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or subsection (2ZA)” .

182.7

In subsection (3), omit paragraph (b).

###### Variation etc of order by court in another part of the United Kingdom

183

183.1

Schedule 18 contains amendments enabling a court in one part of the United
Kingdom to vary, renew or discharge an order made in another.

183.2

In that Schedule—

183.2.a

Part 1 enables a court in Northern Ireland to renew or discharge orders made
in England and Wales and to vary, renew or discharge orders made in Scotland;

183.2.b

Part 2 enables a court in Scotland to vary, renew or discharge orders made in
England and Wales or Northern Ireland;

183.2.c

Part 3 enables a court in England and Wales to vary, renew or discharge orders
made in Scotland or Northern Ireland.

#### Management of terrorist offenders

##### Terrorist offenders released on licence: arrest without warrant pending recall decision

184

184.1

After section 43A of the Terrorism Act 2000 insert—

########### Offenders released on licence: powers in connection with protecting public from risk of terrorism

############ Terrorist offenders released on licence: arrest without warrant pending recall decision

184.1.43B

184.1.43B.1

Subject to subsection  (2) , a constable may arrest without warrant a
terrorist offender who has been released on licence if the constable—

184.1.43B.1.a

has reasonable grounds for suspecting that the offender has breached a
condition of their licence, and

184.1.43B.1.b

reasonably considers that it is necessary, for purposes connected with
protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism, to detain the
offender until a recall decision is made.

184.1.43B.2

A terrorist offender who is detained under this section must (unless recalled
or otherwise detained under any other power) be released—

184.1.43B.2.a

if a recall decision is made not to revoke the offender’s licence (and
accordingly the offender is not recalled to prison), as soon as practicable
after that decision is made, or

184.1.43B.2.b

if a recall decision has not been made by the end of the relevant period, at
the end of that period.

184.1.43B.3

Part 1 of Schedule 8 makes provision that applies where a terrorist offender
is arrested under this section.

184.1.43B.4

In this section “ terrorist offender ” means—

184.1.43B.4.a

an offender to whom a restricted release provision applies or would apply but
for the fact that the offender has been released on licence;

184.1.43B.4.b

a life prisoner within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime
(Sentences) Act 1997 (see section 34 of that Act) who is serving a sentence
for an offence within section 247A(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003;

184.1.43B.4.c

a life prisoner within the meaning of Part 1 of the Prisoners and Criminal
Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 (see section 27 of that Act) who is serving a
sentence, or is subject to an order for lifelong restriction, for an offence
within section 1AB(2) of that Act;

184.1.43B.4.d

a life prisoner within the meaning of the Life Sentences (Northern Ireland)
Order 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2564 (N.I. 2) ) (see Article 2 of that Order) who is
serving a sentence for an offence within Article 20A(2) of the Criminal
Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1216 (N.I. 1) ).

184.1.43B.5

For the purposes of this section—

184.1.43B.5.a

a reference to an offender who has been released on licence includes an
offender who —

184.1.43B.5.a.i

has been released temporarily pursuant to rules made under section 47(5) of
the Prison Act 1952 or section 13(1)(c) of the  Prison Act (Northern Ireland)
1953 (c. 18 (N.I.)) , or

184.1.43B.5.a.ii

has been released temporarily on licence pursuant to rules made under section
39(6) of the Prisons (Scotland) Act 1989;

184.1.43B.5.b

a reference to a condition of an offender’s licence includes a condition to
which an offender’s temporary release is subject;

184.1.43B.5.c

a reference to revocation of an offender’s licence includes recall of an
offender from temporary release.

184.1.43B.6

In this section—

“ prison ” includes any place where a person is liable to be detained; “
recall decision ”, in relation to a terrorist offender who has been released
on licence, means a decision by any person with the power to revoke the
offender’s licence and recall the offender to prison whether or not to
exercise that power; the “ relevant period ” means— in relation to a terrorist
offender who has been released on licence under the law of England and Wales,
the period of 6 hours beginning with the time of the arrest under this
section; in relation to a terrorist offender who has been released on licence
under the law of Scotland or Northern Ireland, the period of 12 hours
beginning with the time of the arrest under this section; “ restricted release
provision ” means— section 247A of the Criminal Justice Act 2003; section 1AB
of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993; Article 20A of
the Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2008.

184.1.43B.7

A person who has the powers of a constable in one part of the United Kingdom
may exercise the power under subsection (1) in any part of the United Kingdom.

184.2

In Schedule 8 to the Terrorism Act 2000 (detention)—

184.2.a

in the shoulder reference, for “Section 41” substitute  “Sections 41 and 43B”
;

184.2.b

in the heading for Part 1, after “41” insert  “or 43B” ;

184.2.c

in paragraph 1, in sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (4), after “41” insert  “or
43B” ;

184.2.d

in paragraph 2, before sub-paragraph (1) insert—

184.2.d.A1

This paragraph applies in the case of a person detained under Schedule 7 or
section 41.

;

184.2.e

in paragraph 6—

184.2.e.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from “Subject to” to “section 41”
substitute  “A person detained under Schedule 7 or section 41 or 43B” ;

184.2.e.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

184.2.e.ii.1A

In the case of a person detained under Schedule 7 or section 41, sub-paragraph
(1) is subject to paragraph 8.

;

184.2.f

in paragraph 7—

184.2.f.i

in sub-paragraph (1), for the words from “Subject to” to “section 41”
substitute  “A person detained under Schedule 7 or section 41 or 43B” ;

184.2.f.ii

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

184.2.f.ii.1A

Sub-paragraph (1) is subject—

184.2.f.ii.1A.a

in the case of a person detained under Schedule 7 or section 41, to paragraphs
8 and 9, and

184.2.f.ii.1A.b

in the case of a person detained under section 43B, to paragraph 9.

;

184.2.g

in paragraph 8, before sub-paragraph (1) insert—

184.2.g.A1

This paragraph does not apply in the case of a person detained under section
43B (except for the purposes of paragraph 9(3)(a)).

;

184.2.h

after paragraph 13 insert—

184.2.h.13A

No fingerprint, intimate sample or non-intimate sample may be taken from a
person detained under section 43B.

;

184.2.i

in paragraph 16—

184.2.i.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “41” insert  “or 43B” ;

184.2.i.ii

in sub-paragraphs (4) and (7), at the beginning insert  “Where a person is
detained under Schedule 7 or section 41,” ;

184.2.j

in paragraph 18, in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), after “41” insert  “or 43B” .

##### Power to search terrorist offenders released on licence

185

After section 43B of the Terrorism Act 2000 insert—

######### Power to search terrorist offenders released on licence

185.43C

185.43C.1

A constable may stop and search a terrorist offender who is within subsection
(2)  if the constable is satisfied that it is necessary to do so for purposes
connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.

185.43C.2

A terrorist offender is within this subsection if—

185.43C.2.a

the offender has been released on licence (and not recalled), and

185.43C.2.b

the offender’s licence includes a search condition.

185.43C.3

The power in subsection (1) may be exercised in any place to which the
constable lawfully has access (whether or not it is a place to which the
public has access).

185.43C.4

Subsection  (5)  applies if a constable, in exercising the power in subsection
(1) to stop a terrorist offender, stops a vehicle (see section 116(2)).

185.43C.5

The constable may search the vehicle and anything in or on it for purposes
connected with protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism.

185.43C.6

Nothing in subsection  (5)  confers a power to search any person, but the
power to search in that subsection is in addition to the power in subsection
(1) to search a terrorist offender.

185.43C.7

The power in subsection (1) to search a terrorist offender includes power to
search anything carried by the offender.

185.43C.8

Subsection  (5)  of section 43B applies for the purposes of this section as it
applies for the purposes of that section.

185.43C.9

In this section—

“ search condition ” means a condition requiring the offender to submit to a
search of their person under this section; “ terrorist offender ” has the same
meaning as in section 43B.

185.43C.10

A person who has the powers of a constable in one part of the United Kingdom
may exercise a power under this section in any part of the United Kingdom.

##### Search of premises of offender released on licence for purposes connected with protection from risk of terrorism

186

After section 43C of the Terrorism Act 2000 insert—

######### Search of premises of offender released on licence for purposes connected with protection from risk of terrorism

186.43D

186.43D.1

A justice may issue a warrant under this section if, on the application of a
senior police officer of the relevant force, the justice is satisfied that the
requirements in subsection (2) are met.

186.43D.2

The requirements are—

186.43D.2.a

that the person specified in the application is a relevant offender who has
been released on licence (and not recalled),

186.43D.2.b

that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the person resides, or
may regularly be found, at premises (whether residential or otherwise)
specified in the application,

186.43D.2.c

that it is necessary, for purposes connected with protecting members of the
public from a risk of terrorism, for a constable to enter and search premises
specified in the application, and

186.43D.2.d

the occupier of the premises is unlikely to consent to a constable entering or
searching the premises specified in the application.

186.43D.3

A warrant under this section must specify each set of premises to which it
relates (which are to be premises in relation to which the requirements in
subsection  (2)(b)  to (d) are met).

186.43D.4

A warrant under this section is a warrant that authorises a constable of the
relevant force, for the purposes referred to in subsection  (2)(c) —

186.43D.4.a

to enter the premises to which it relates, and

186.43D.4.b

to search the premises or, if the premises are multiple occupancy premises,
the relevant parts of the premises.

186.43D.5

A warrant under this section may—

186.43D.5.a

authorise the constable executing it to use reasonable force if necessary to
enter and search the premises;

186.43D.5.b

authorise entry to, and search of, the premises on more than one occasion
(whether on a certain number of occasions or without limit), so far as the
justice who issues the warrant is satisfied that such authorisation is
necessary for the purposes referred to in subsection (2)(c).

186.43D.6

For the purposes of subsection  (4) —

186.43D.6.a

“multiple occupancy premises” are premises at which two or more individuals
who are not members of the same household reside;

186.43D.6.b

the reference to the “ relevant parts ” of multiple occupancy premises is to
those parts of the premises to which the constable has reasonable grounds for
believing that the person to whom the warrant relates has access.

186.43D.7

Subsection  (5)  of section 43B applies for the purposes of this section as it
applies for the purposes of that section.

186.43D.8

In this section “ relevant offender ” means—

186.43D.8.a

a prisoner to whom Chapter 6 of Part 12 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003
applies (release of fixed-term prisoners);

186.43D.8.b

a life prisoner within the meaning of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Crime
(Sentences) Act 1997 (see section 34 of that Act);

186.43D.8.c

a short-term prisoner, long-term prisoner or life prisoner within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Prisoners and Criminal Proceedings (Scotland) Act 1993 (see
section 27 of that Act);

186.43D.8.d

a fixed-term prisoner within the meaning of Chapter 4 of Part 2 of the
Criminal Justice (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 ( S.I. 2008/1216 (N.I. 1) )
(see Article 16 of that Order);

186.43D.8.e

a life prisoner within the meaning of the Life Sentences (Northern Ireland)
Order 2001 ( S.I. 2001/2564 (N.I. 2) ) (see Article 2 of that Order).

186.43D.9

In this section—

“ justice ” means— a justice of the peace in England and Wales, a sheriff or
summary sheriff in Scotland, or a lay magistrate in Northern Ireland; “
relevant force ” means— if the premises specified in the application for the
warrant are in England or Wales, the police force maintained for the police
area in which those premises are situated, if those premises are in Scotland,
the Police Service of Scotland, or if those premises are in Northern Ireland,
the Police Service of Northern Ireland; “ senior police officer ” means a
constable of the rank of superintendent or above.

##### Powers of seizure and retention

187

After section 43D of the Terrorism Act 2000 insert—

######### Seizure and retention of items found in search under section 43C or 43D

187.43E

187.43E.1

This section applies where a constable carries out—

187.43E.1.a

a search of a terrorist offender under section 43C(1),

187.43E.1.b

a search of a vehicle, or anything in or on a vehicle, under section 43C(5),
or

187.43E.1.c

a search of premises further to a warrant issued under section 43D.

187.43E.2

A constable may seize anything that the constable finds in the course of the
search if—

187.43E.2.a

the constable reasonably suspects that—

187.43E.2.a.i

the thing is or contains evidence in relation to an offence, and

187.43E.2.a.ii

it is necessary to seize it in order to prevent it being concealed, lost,
damaged, altered or destroyed, or

187.43E.2.b

the constable reasonably believes that it is necessary to do so for the
purpose of ascertaining—

187.43E.2.b.i

whether the offender has breached a condition of the offender’s licence, and

187.43E.2.b.ii

if so, whether the breach affects the risk of terrorism to which members of
the public are exposed.

187.43E.3

Anything seized under subsection (2) may be—

187.43E.3.a

subjected to tests;

187.43E.3.b

retained for as long as is necessary in all the circumstances (but see
subsection (5)).

187.43E.4

In particular (and regardless of the ground on which the thing was seized)—

187.43E.4.a

if a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the thing is or
contains evidence in relation to an offence, it may be retained—

187.43E.4.a.i

for use as evidence at a trial for an offence, or

187.43E.4.a.ii

for forensic examination or for investigation in connection with an offence;

187.43E.4.b

if a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the thing has been
obtained in consequence of the commission of an offence, it may be retained in
order to establish its lawful owner.

187.43E.5

Anything seized under subsection (2)(b) that is not retained as mentioned in
subsection (4)(a) or (b) may be retained for a maximum period of 7 days
beginning with the day after the day on which the thing is seized.

187.43E.6

Nothing may be retained for either of the purposes mentioned in subsection
(4)(a) if a photograph or copy would be sufficient for that purpose.

187.43E.7

In this section “ offender ” means—

187.43E.7.a

in relation to a search under section 43C, the terrorist offender to whom the
search relates;

187.43E.7.b

in relation to a search under section 43D, the relevant offender in relation
to whom the warrant authorising the search was issued.

187.43E.8

Nothing in this section affects any power of a court to make an order under
section 1 of the Police (Property) Act 1897.

##### Sections 184 to 187: consequential provision

188

Schedule 19 makes provision that is consequential on sections 184 to 187.

##### Arrangements for assessing etc risks posed by certain offenders

189

189.1

Section 325 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (arrangements for assessing etc
risks posed by certain offenders) is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (6) .

189.2

In subsection (1), in the definition of “relevant sexual or violent offender”,
for “has the meaning” substitute  “and “relevant terrorist offender” have the
meanings” .

189.3

In subsection (2)—

189.3.a

for the “and” at the end of paragraph (a) substitute—

189.3.a.aa

relevant terrorist offenders,

189.3.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert

, and

189.3.b.c

other persons who have committed offences (wherever committed) and are
considered by the responsible authority to be persons who may be at risk of
involvement in terrorism-related activity.

189.4

For subsection (4) substitute—

189.4.4

A person to whom subsection (4A) applies may, for the purpose described in
subsection (2), disclose information to another person to whom subsection (4A)
applies.

189.4.4A

This subsection applies to—

189.4.4A.a

the responsible authority,

189.4.4A.b

a person specified in subsection (6), and

189.4.4A.c

a person who the responsible authority considers may contribute to the
achievement of the purpose described in subsection (2).

189.4.4B

A disclosure under subsection (4) does not breach—

189.4.4B.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

189.4.4B.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

189.4.4C

But subsection (4) does not authorise a disclosure of information that—

189.4.4C.a

would contravene the data protection legislation (but in determining whether
it would do so, the power in that subsection is to be taken into account), or

189.4.4C.b

would be prohibited by any of Parts 1 to 7 or Chapter 1 of Part 9 of the
Investigatory Powers Act 2016.

189.4.4D

Subsection (4E) applies if a person who may disclose or receive information by
virtue of subsection (4) would not otherwise be a competent authority for the
purposes of Part 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (law enforcement
processing) in relation to the processing by that person of personal data by
virtue of that subsection.

189.4.4E

The person is to be treated as a competent authority for the purposes of that
Part in relation to the processing by that person of personal data by virtue
of subsection (4).

189.4.4F

But subsection (4E) does not apply to an intelligence service within the
meaning of Part 4 of the Data Protection Act 2018 (see section 82(2) of that
Act).

189.4.4G

Subsections (4) to (4F) do not affect any power to disclose information apart
from that conferred by subsection (4).

189.5

In subsection (6), in the opening words, after “(3)” insert  “,  (4A)(b) ” .

189.6

In subsection (9), at the appropriate places insert—

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3 of that Act);

;

“ involvement in terrorism-related activity ” has the same meaning as in the
Terrorism Prevention and Investigation Measures Act 2011 (see section 4 of
that Act);

;

“ personal data ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see
section 3(2) of that Act);

;

“ processing ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act 2018 (see
section 3(4) of that Act);

.

189.7

Section 327 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (interpretation of section 325)
is amended in accordance with subsections  (8)  to  (10) .

189.8

In subsection (3)—

189.8.a

in paragraph (a)—

189.8.a.i

for “is” substitute  “has been” , and

189.8.a.ii

after “specified in” insert  “Part 1 or 2 of” , and

189.8.b

in paragraph (b)—

189.8.b.i

in the words before sub-paragraph (i), for “is” substitute  “was” ,

189.8.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (i), for “for a term of 12 months or more” substitute  “that
is not for a term of less than 12 months” , and

189.8.b.iii

after sub-paragraph (v) insert—

189.8.b.iii.va

a sentence of custody for life under section 93 or 94 of the Powers of
Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 or under section 272 or 275 of the
Sentencing Code,

.

189.9

In subsection (4)(a), after “specified in” insert  “Part 1 or 2 of” .

189.10

After subsection (4A) insert—

189.10.4B

For the purposes of section 325, a person is a relevant terrorist offender if
the person falls within one or both of subsections  (4C)  and  (4D) .

189.10.4C

A person falls within this subsection if the person is subject to the
notification requirements of Part 4 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008.

189.10.4D

A person falls within this subsection if the person has been convicted of and
sentenced for a relevant terrorist offence, or otherwise dealt within in
relation to such an offence, as described in—

189.10.4D.a

paragraph (a) or (b) of section 45(1) of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008,

189.10.4D.b

paragraph (a) or (b) of section 45(2) of that Act,

189.10.4D.c

paragraph (a) or (b) of section 45(3) of that Act, or

189.10.4D.d

paragraph (a) or (b) of paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 6 to that Act.

189.10.4E

For the purposes of subsection  (4D) —

189.10.4E.a

any reference in the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 to an offence to which Part 4
of that Act applies is to be read as if it were a reference to a relevant
terrorist offence, and

189.10.4E.b

any reference in that Act to a hospital order is to be read as if it included
a guardianship order within the meaning of the Mental Health Act 1983 or the
Mental Health (Northern Ireland) Order 1986 ( S.I. 1986/595 (N.I. 4) ).

189.10.4F

In subsections  (4D)  and  (4E)  “ relevant terrorist offence ” means—

189.10.4F.a

an offence specified in Part 1 or 2 of Schedule 19ZA (terrorism offences
punishable with imprisonment for life or for more than two years),

189.10.4F.b

a service offence as respects which the corresponding civil offence is so
specified, or

189.10.4F.c

an offence which was determined to have a terrorist connection (see subsection
(4G) );

and in paragraph  (b)  “ service offence ” and “ corresponding civil offence ”
have the same meanings as in the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (see section 95 of
that Act).

189.10.4G

For the purposes of subsection  (4F)(c) , an offence was determined to have a
terrorist connection if it was—

189.10.4G.a

determined to have a terrorist connection under—

189.10.4G.a.i

section 69 of the Sentencing Code (including as applied by section 238(6) of
the Armed Forces Act 2006),

189.10.4G.a.ii

section 30 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced in England and Wales before the Sentencing Code applied, or an
offender sentenced in Northern Ireland but now capable of posing a risk in an
area in England and Wales), or

189.10.4G.a.iii

section 32 of that Act (in the case of a person sentenced for a service
offence before the Sentencing Code applied), or

189.10.4G.b

proved to have been aggravated by reason of having a terrorist connection
under section 31 of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (in the case of an offender
sentenced in Scotland but now capable of posing a risk in an area in England
and Wales).

#### Football banning orders

##### Football banning orders: relevant offences

190

190.1

The Football Spectators Act 1989 is amended as follows.

190.2

Schedule 1 (football banning orders: relevant offences) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (7) .

190.3

In paragraph 1(c) (certain offences under the Public Order Act 1986 committed
at premises)—

190.3.a

after “any offence under section” insert  “4,” , and

190.3.b

before “harassment” insert  “fear or provocation of violence, or” .

190.4

In paragraph 1(k) (certain offences under the Public Order Act 1986 committed
on a journey to or from a football match)—

190.4.a

after “any offence under section” insert  “4,” , and

190.4.b

before “harassment” insert  “fear or provocation of violence, or” .

190.5

In paragraph 1(q) (certain offences under the Public Order Act 1986 which the
court declares to be related to a football match)—

190.5.a

after “any offence under section” insert  “4,” ,

190.5.b

before “harassment” insert  “fear or provocation of violence, or” , and

190.5.c

omit “or any provision of Part 3 or 3A of that Act (hatred by reference to
race etc)”.

190.6

In paragraph 1, after paragraph (u) insert—

190.6.v

any offence under any provision of Part 3 or 3A of the Public Order Act 1986
(hatred by reference to race etc)—

190.6.v.i

which does not fall within paragraph (c) or (k), and

190.6.v.ii

as respects which the court makes a declaration that the offence related to a
football match, to a football organisation or to a person whom the accused
knew or believed to have a prescribed connection with a football organisation,

190.6.w

any offence under section 31 of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 (racially or
religiously aggravated public order offences) as respects which the court
makes a declaration that the offence related to a football match, to a
football organisation or to a person whom the accused knew or believed to have
a prescribed connection with a football organisation,

190.6.x

any offence under section 1 of the Malicious Communications Act 1988 (offence
of sending letter, electronic communication or article with intent to cause
distress or anxiety)—

190.6.x.i

which does not fall within paragraph (d), (e), (m), (n), (r) or (s),

190.6.x.ii

as respects which the court has stated that the offence is aggravated by
hostility of any of the types mentioned in section 66(1) of the Sentencing
Code (racial hostility etc), and

190.6.x.iii

as respects which the court makes a declaration that the offence related to a
football match, to a football organisation or to a person whom the accused
knew or believed to have a prescribed connection with a football organisation,

190.6.y

any offence under section 127(1) of the Communications Act 2003 (improper use
of public telecommunications network)—

190.6.y.i

which does not fall within paragraph (d), (e), (m), (n), (r) or (s),

190.6.y.ii

as respects which the court has stated that the offence is aggravated by
hostility of any of the types mentioned in section 66(1) of the Sentencing
Code (racial hostility etc), and

190.6.y.iii

as respects which the court makes a declaration that the offence related to a
football match, to a football organisation or to a person whom the accused
knew or believed to have a prescribed connection with a football organisation.

190.7

In paragraph 4—

190.7.a

the words from “In this Schedule” to “Part II of this Act.” become sub-
paragraph (1),

190.7.b

after sub-paragraph (1) insert—

190.7.b.1A

In this Schedule “ football organisation ” means an organisation which is a
regulated football organisation for the purposes of Part 2 of this Act.

, and

190.7.c

after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

190.7.c.3

The provision that may be made by an order made by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Schedule includes provision that a person has a
prescribed connection with a football organisation where—

190.7.c.3.a

the person has had a connection of a prescribed kind with a football
organisation in the past, or

190.7.c.3.b

the person will or may have a connection of a prescribed kind with a football
organisation in the future.

190.8

In section 14 (main definitions), after subsection (2) insert—

190.8.2A

“ Regulated football organisation ” means an organisation (whether in the
United Kingdom or elsewhere) which—

190.8.2A.a

relates to association football, and

190.8.2A.b

is a prescribed organisation or an organisation of a prescribed description.

190.9

Section 23 (further provision about, and appeals against, declarations of
relevance) is amended in accordance with subsections  (10)  and  (11) .

190.10

In subsection (1), for the words from “related to football matches” to the end
of the subsection substitute

—

190.10.a

related to football matches,

190.10.b

related to a particular football match or to particular football matches,

190.10.c

related to a football organisation, or

190.10.d

related to a person whom the defendant knew or believed to have a prescribed
connection with a football organisation,

as the case may be.

190.11

In subsection (5), for the words from “related to football matches” to the end
of the subsection substitute

—

190.11.a

related to football matches,

190.11.b

related to one or more particular football matches,

190.11.c

related to a football organisation, or

190.11.d

related to a person whom the defendant knew or believed to have a prescribed
connection with a football organisation.

190.12

This section does not apply in relation to an offence committed before the day
appointed by regulations under section 208 (1)  for its coming into force (so
far as it has not previously been commenced by section 208(4)(y)).

##### Football banning orders: power to amend list of relevant offences

191

191.1

In section 14 of the Football Spectators Act 1989 (main definitions), after
subsection (8) insert—

191.1.9

The Secretary of State may by regulations amend paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 so
as to add, modify or remove a reference to an offence or a description of
offence.

191.1.10

Regulations under subsection  (9)  may make consequential amendments to this
Act.

191.1.11

A statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (9)  may not
be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid before and approved by
a resolution of each House of Parliament.

191.2

Section 22A of that Act (other interpretation, etc) is amended in accordance
with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

191.3

In subsection (3), after “order” insert  “or regulations” .

191.4

After subsection (3) insert—

191.4.3A

An order or regulations under this Part—

191.4.3A.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

191.4.3A.b

may make consequential, supplementary, incidental, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

##### Football banning orders: requirement to make order on conviction etc

192

192.1

In section 14A of the Football Spectators Act 1989 (banning order made on
conviction of an offence), for subsections (2) and (3) substitute—

192.1.2

The court must make a banning order in respect of the offender unless the
court considers that there are particular circumstances relating to the
offence or to the offender which would make it unjust in all the circumstances
to do so.

192.1.3

Where the court does not make a banning order it must state in open court the
reasons for not doing so.

192.2

Section 22 of that Act (banning orders arising out of offences outside England
and Wales) is amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  and  (4) .

192.3

In subsection (4), for the words following paragraph (b) substitute—

must make a banning order in relation to the person, unless subsection (5)
applies.

192.4

For subsections (5) and (5A) substitute—

192.4.5

This subsection applies if—

192.4.5.a

it appears to the court that the conviction of the corresponding offence in a
country outside England and Wales is the subject of proceedings in a court of
law in that country questioning the conviction, or

192.4.5.b

the court considers that there are particular circumstances relating to the
corresponding offence or to the person which would make it unjust in all the
circumstances to make a banning order.

192.4.5A

Where the court does not make a banning order on the ground mentioned in
subsection (5)(b) it must state in open court the reasons for not doing so.

192.5

This section does not apply in relation to an offence committed before the day
appointed by regulations under section 208 (1)  for its coming into force.

### Rehabilitation of offenders

#### Rehabilitation of offenders

193

193.1

The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974, as it forms part of the law of
England and Wales, is amended as follows.

193.2

Section 5 (rehabilitation periods for particular sentences) is amended in
accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (12) .

193.3

In subsection (1) (sentences excluded from rehabilitation)—

193.3.a

for paragraph (b) substitute—

193.3.a.b

any of the following sentences, where the sentence is imposed for an offence
specified in Schedule 18 to the Sentencing Code (serious violent, sexual and
terrorism offences) or a service offence as respects which the corresponding
offence is so specified—

193.3.a.b.i

a sentence of imprisonment for a term exceeding 4 years;

193.3.a.b.ii

a sentence of youth custody for such a term;

193.3.a.b.iii

a sentence of detention in a young offender institution for such a term;

193.3.a.b.iv

a sentence of corrective training for such a term;

193.3.a.b.v

a sentence of detention under section 91 of the Powers of Criminal Courts
(Sentencing) Act 2000 for such a term;

193.3.a.b.vi

a sentence of detention under section 250 or 252A of the Sentencing Code for
such a term;

193.3.a.b.vii

a sentence of detention under section 209 or 224B of the Armed Forces Act 2006
for such a term;

193.3.a.b.viii

a sentence of detention under section 205ZC(5) or 208 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 for such a term;

, and

193.3.b

in paragraph (d) omit the words from “or a sentence of detention” to the end
of that paragraph (including the “and” at the end of that paragraph).

193.4

After subsection (1) insert—

193.4.1ZA

In subsection (1)(b)—

193.4.1ZA.a

“ service offence ” means an offence under—

193.4.1ZA.a.i

section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006,

193.4.1ZA.a.ii

section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or Air Force Act 1955, or

193.4.1ZA.a.iii

section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957, and

193.4.1ZA.b

“ corresponding offence ” means—

193.4.1ZA.b.i

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006, the
corresponding offence under the law of England and Wales within the meaning of
that section;

193.4.1ZA.b.ii

in relation to an offence under section 70 of the Army Act 1955 or the Air
Force Act 1955, the corresponding civil offence within the meaning of that
Act;

193.4.1ZA.b.iii

in relation to an offence under section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957,
the civil offence within the meaning of that section.

193.4.1ZB

Section 48 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (supplementary provisions relating to
ancillary service offences) applies for the purposes of subsection (1ZA)(b)(i)
as it applies for the purposes of the provisions of that Act referred to in
subsection (3)(b) of that section.

193.5

In subsection (2) (rehabilitation periods), in the words before paragraph (a),
for “(3) and” substitute  “(2A) to” .

193.6

In the table in subsection (2)(b) (rehabilitation periods)—

193.6.a

for the three rows relating to custodial sentences substitute—

A custodial sentence of more than 4 years The end of the period of 7 years
beginning with the day on which the sentence (including any licence period) is
completed The end of the period of 42 months beginning with the day on which
the sentence (including any licence period) is completed A custodial sentence
of more than 1 year and up to, or consisting of, 4 years The end of the period
of 4 years beginning with the day on which the sentence (including any licence
period) is completed The end of the period of 2 years beginning with the day
on which the sentence (including any licence period) is completed A custodial
sentence of 1 year or less The end of the period of 12 months beginning with
the day on which the sentence (including any licence period) is completed The
end of the period of 6 months beginning with the day on which the sentence
(including any licence period) is completed

;

193.6.b

omit the row relating to a community or youth rehabilitation order.

193.7

After subsection (2) (and after the table in subsection (2)(b)) insert—

193.7.2A

Subsection (2B) applies where provision is made by or under a relevant order
for the order to have effect—

193.7.2A.a

until further order,

193.7.2A.b

until the occurrence of a specified event, or

193.7.2A.c

otherwise for an indefinite period.

193.7.2B

The rehabilitation period for the order is the period—

193.7.2B.a

beginning with the date of the conviction in respect of which the order is
imposed, and

193.7.2B.b

ending when the order ceases to have effect.

193.8

For subsection (3) (rehabilitation period for community etc order which does
not provide for the last day on which the order has effect) substitute—

193.8.3

The rehabilitation period for a relevant order which is not otherwise dealt
with in the Table or under subsections (2A) and (2B) is the period of 24
months beginning with the date of conviction.

193.9

In subsection (4)(b) (rehabilitation period for other sentences), for
“subsection (3)” substitute  “any of subsections (2A) to (3)” .

193.10

In subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a), for “For” substitute
“Subject to subsection (7A), for” .

193.11

After subsection (7) insert—

193.11.7A

Subsection (7)(a) or (b) does not apply for the purposes of determining
whether a sentence is excluded from rehabilitation by virtue of subsection
(1)(b).

193.11.7B

For the purposes of this section, a sentence imposed as mentioned in
subsection (7)(f) for an offence—

193.11.7B.a

under the law of Scotland, Northern Ireland or a country or territory outside
the United Kingdom, and

193.11.7B.b

which would have constituted an offence specified in Schedule 18 to the
Sentencing Code if it had been committed in England and Wales,

is to be treated as a sentence for an offence specified in that Schedule (and
for this purpose an act punishable under the law in force in a country or
territory outside the United Kingdom constitutes an offence under that law,
however it is described in that law).

193.12

In subsection (8) (interpretation), in the definition of “relevant order”—

193.12.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

a community or youth rehabilitation order,

, and

193.12.b

for paragraph (g) substitute—

any order which— imposes a disqualification, disability, prohibition, penalty,
requirement or restriction, or is otherwise intended to regulate the behaviour
of the person convicted, and is not otherwise dealt with in the Table,

.

193.13

In section 6(5) (the rehabilitation period applicable to a conviction), for
the words from “by virtue of” to “or other penalty” substitute  “to an order
within paragraph (g) of the definition of “relevant order” in section 5(8)
above” .

193.14

In section 7(1)(d) (limitations on rehabilitation under the Act), for “or
other penalty” substitute  “, penalty, requirement, restriction or other
regulation of the person’s behaviour” .

193.15

In paragraph 5(b) of Schedule 2 (protection for spent cautions), after
“prohibition” insert  “, requirement” .

193.16

This section applies in relation to convictions before the day on which this
section comes into force (“ the commencement day ”) as well as in relation to
convictions on or after that day.

193.17

The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 (“ the 1974 Act ”) applies in
relation to convictions before the commencement day as if the amendments made
by this section had always had effect.

193.18

Where by virtue of subsection  (17) —

193.18.a

a person would, before the commencement day, have been treated for the
purposes of the 1974 Act as a rehabilitated person in respect of a conviction,
or

193.18.b

a conviction would, before that day, have been treated for the purposes of
that Act as spent,

the person or conviction concerned is (subject to any order made by virtue of
section 4(4) or 7(4) of that Act) to be so treated on and after that day.

### Disregards and pardons for certain historical offences

#### Disregard of certain convictions or cautions

194

194.1

The Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 is amended in accordance with subsections
(2)  to  (10) .

194.2

Section 92 (power of Secretary of State to disregard convictions or cautions)
is amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  to  (5) .

194.3

In subsection (1) for the words from “under” to the end of paragraph (c)
substitute  “in circumstances where the conduct constituting the offence was
sexual activity between persons of the same sex” .

194.4

In subsection (3)—

194.4.a

in paragraph (a)—

194.4.a.i

for the first “the” substitute  “any” ,

194.4.a.ii

for “conduct constituting the offence consented to it and” substitute  “sexual
activity” , and

194.4.a.iii

omit the second “and”, and

194.4.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

194.4.b.b

the offence has been repealed or, in the case of an offence at common law,
abolished by enactment (whether or not it has been re-enacted or replaced),
and

194.4.b.c

the sexual activity would not, if occurring in the same circumstances at the
point of decision, constitute an offence.

194.5

After subsection (6) insert—

194.5.7

In this section “ sexual activity ” includes—

194.5.7.a

any physical or affectionate activity which is of a type characteristic of
people involved in an intimate personal relationship, and

194.5.7.b

conduct intended to lead to sexual activity.

194.6

In section 93(3) (applications to the Secretary of State), for the words from
“the matters” to the end substitute

—

194.6.a

whether a conviction or caution is of a kind mentioned in section 92(1);

194.6.b

the matters mentioned in condition A in that section.

194.7

In section 94 (procedure for decisions by the Secretary of State)—

194.7.a

in subsection (1)—

194.7.a.i

after “considering” insert  “whether a conviction or caution is of a kind
mentioned in section 92(1) or” , and

194.7.a.ii

for “section 92” substitute  “that section” ,

194.7.b

in subsection (2)—

194.7.b.i

after “deciding” insert  “whether a conviction or caution is of a kind
mentioned in section 92(1) or” , and

194.7.b.ii

for “section 92” substitute  “that section” ,

194.7.c

after subsection (2) insert—

194.7.c.2A

If the Secretary of State refuses an application on the basis that the caution
or conviction is not of a kind mentioned in section 92(1), the Secretary of
State must—

194.7.c.2A.a

record the decision in writing, and

194.7.c.2A.b

give notice of it to the applicant.

194.8

In section 99 (appeal against refusal to disregard convictions or cautions)—

194.8.a

in subsection (1)(a) after “Secretary of State” insert  “refuses an
application on the basis mentioned in section 94(2A) or” ,

194.8.b

in subsection (3), for the words from “that it” to the end substitute

—

194.8.b.a

that the conviction or caution is of a kind mentioned in section 92(1), it
must make an order to that effect;

194.8.b.b

that it appears as mentioned in condition A of that section, it must make an
order to that effect.

, and

194.8.c

in subsection (5), after “subsection (3)” insert  “(b)” .

194.9

In section 100(1) (advisers)—

194.9.a

for the second “Secretary of State” substitute

Secretary of State—

194.9.a.a

the caution or conviction is of a kind mentioned in section 92(1), or

,

194.9.b

the remaining text becomes paragraph (b), and

194.9.c

in that paragraph for “section 92” substitute  “that section” .

194.10

In section 101—

194.10.a

in subsection (1)—

194.10.a.i

in paragraph (a) of the definition of “conviction”, after “proceedings” insert
“(including anything that under section 376(1) and (2) of the Armed Forces Act
2006 is to be treated as a conviction for the purposes of that Act)” ,

194.10.a.ii

at the end of the definition of “sentence” insert  “(including anything that
under section 376(1) and (3) of the Armed Forces Act 2006 is to be treated as
a sentence for the purposes of that Act),” ,

194.10.a.iii

at the end of paragraph (a) of the definition of “service disciplinary
proceedings” omit “or”,

194.10.a.iv

after paragraph (b) of the definition of “service disciplinary proceedings”
insert

, or

194.10.a.iv.c

in respect of a service offence (whether or not before a court but excepting
proceedings before a civilian court within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act
2006);

and for the purposes of paragraph (c) “ service offence ” means a service
offence within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006, or an SDA offence
within the meaning of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (Transitional Provisions etc)
Order 2009 ( SI 2009/1059 ).”, and

194.10.a.v

in the appropriate place insert—

      “ enactment ” includes an enactment contained in subordinate legislation
(within the meaning of the Interpretation Act 1978),

,

194.10.b

omit subsections (3) and (4),

194.10.c

in subsection (5) for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “a reference to an
inchoate or ancillary offence relating to the offence.” ,

194.10.d

in subsection (6)—

194.10.d.i

for the first “or incitement” substitute  “, incitement, encouraging or
assisting” , and

194.10.d.ii

for the second “or incitement” substitute  “, incitement, encouraging or
assisting” ,

194.10.e

after subsection (6) insert—

194.10.e.6A

For the purposes of section 92, an inchoate or ancillary offence is to be
treated as repealed or abolished to the extent that the offence to which it
relates is repealed or abolished.

194.10.e.6B

A reference to an inchoate or ancillary offence in relation to an offence is a
reference to an offence of—

194.10.e.6B.a

attempting, conspiracy or incitement to commit the offence,

194.10.e.6B.b

encouraging or assisting the commission of the offence, or

194.10.e.6B.c

aiding, abetting, counselling or procuring the commission of the offence.

194.10.e.6C

For the purposes of section 92, an offence under an enactment mentioned in
subsection (6D) is to be treated as repealed to the extent that the conduct
constituting the offence under the enactment—

194.10.e.6C.a

was punishable by reference to an offence under the law of England and Wales
which has been repealed or abolished, or

194.10.e.6C.b

if the conduct was not punishable by the law of England and Wales, was
punishable by reference to equivalent conduct constituting an offence under
the law of England and Wales which has been repealed or abolished.

194.10.e.6D

The enactments are—

194.10.e.6D.a

section 45 of the Naval Discipline Act 1866,

194.10.e.6D.b

section 41 of the Army Act 1881,

194.10.e.6D.c

section 41 of the Air Force Act 1917,

194.10.e.6D.d

section 70 of the Army Act 1955,

194.10.e.6D.e

section 70 of the Air Force Act 1955,

194.10.e.6D.f

section 42 of the Naval Discipline Act 1957, and

194.10.e.6D.g

section 42 of the Armed Forces Act 2006.

, and

194.10.f

in subsection (7) for “(5) and (6)” substitute  “(5), (6) and (6B)” .

194.11

Nothing in this section affects the disregard of a conviction or caution that
was disregarded before this section comes into force.

#### Pardons for certain convictions or cautions

195

195.1

The Policing and Crime Act 2017 is amended in accordance with subsections  (2)
to  (13) .

195.2

Section 164 (posthumous pardons for convictions etc. of certain abolished
offences) is amended in accordance with subsections  (3)  to (10).

195.3

Before subsection (1) insert—

195.3.A1

Subsection (1) applies in relation to a person—

195.3.A1.a

who was convicted of, or cautioned for, an offence in circumstances where the
conduct constituting the offence was sexual activity between persons of the
same sex, and

195.3.A1.b

who died before the end of the period of twelve months beginning with—

195.3.A1.b.i

the day on which section 194 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act
2022 comes into force, or

195.3.A1.b.ii

if later, the day on which the offence referred to in paragraph (a) became an
abolished offence (see subsection (1A)).

195.4

For subsection (1) substitute—

195.4.1

The person is pardoned for the offence if—

195.4.1.a

any other person involved in the sexual activity was aged 16 or over, and

195.4.1.b

the offence has become an abolished offence.

195.4.1A

An offence becomes an abolished offence at the point at which conditions A and
B are first met.

195.4.1B

Condition A is that the offence has been repealed or, in the case of an
offence at common law, abolished by enactment (whether or not it was re-
enacted or replaced).

195.4.1C

Condition B is that the sexual activity referred to in subsection (A1)(a)
would not, if occurring in the same circumstances, constitute an offence.

195.5

Omit subsections (2) to (6).

195.6

In subsection (7)—

195.6.a

for “subsection (8)” substitute  “subsections (8) and (8A)” , and

195.6.b

at the end of paragraph (b) insert  “(but as if the reference in subsections
(6A) and (6C) to section 92 were a reference to this section)” .

195.7

In subsection (8) (as amended by section 19 of the Armed Forces Act 2021)—

195.7.a

omit paragraph (ba),

195.7.b

at the end of paragraph (c) omit “or”,

195.7.c

after paragraph (c) (but before paragraph (d) inserted by section 19(3)(d) of
the Armed Forces Act 2021) insert—

195.7.c.ca

the Mutiny Act 1878, the Marine Mutiny Act 1878, any Act previously in force
corresponding to either of those Acts or any relevant Articles of War, or

.

195.8

After subsection (8) insert—

195.8.8A

Section 101(6D) of the 2012 Act is to be read, in its application to this
section by virtue of subsection (7) of this section, as if the enactments
listed in that subsection included—

195.8.8A.a

Article 2 of Section 20 of the Articles of War of 1749 (offences triable by
courts martial outside Great Britain),

195.8.8A.b

section 38 of the Naval Discipline Act 1860,

195.8.8A.c

section 38 of the Naval Discipline Act 1861,

195.8.8A.d

section 41 of the Naval Discipline Act 1864,

195.8.8A.e

Article 93 of Section 2 of the Articles of War of 1876 (offences not specified
in Marine Mutiny Act or Articles of War),

195.8.8A.f

section 41 of the Army Discipline and Regulation Act 1879, and

195.8.8A.g

any provision corresponding to the provision mentioned in paragraphs  (a)  or
(e) , contained in other relevant Articles of War.

195.9

In subsection (10) (inserted by section 19 of the Armed Forces Act 2021)
insert in the appropriate place—

      “ sexual activity ” includes—         any physical or affectionate
activity which is of a type characteristic of people involved in an intimate
personal relationship, and           conduct intended to lead to sexual
activity.

195.10

After subsection (10) insert—

195.10.11

Subsection (1) does not apply in relation to an offence for which the person
has previously been pardoned under this section or section 165.

195.11

In section 165(1) (other pardons for convictions etc. of certain abolished
offences) after “offence” insert  “in the circumstances” .

195.12

Omit section 166 (power to provide disregards and pardons for additional
abolished offences).

195.13

In section 167 (sections 164 to 166: supplementary)—

195.13.a

in the opening words of subsection (1) omit “, or under regulations under
166,”, and

195.13.b

in subsection (2)—

195.13.b.i

for “sections 164 to 166” substitute  “section 164 or 165” , and

195.13.b.ii

omit “or regulations under section 166”.

195.14

Nothing in this section affects a pardon for a conviction or caution which
took effect before this section comes into force.

195.15

In section 19 of the Armed Forces Act 2021 (posthumous pardons in relation to
certain abolished offences), omit subsection (2) and paragraphs (b) and (c) of
subsection (3).

### Procedures in courts and tribunals

#### Juries

##### British Sign Language interpreters for deaf jurors

196

196.1

The Juries Act 1974 is amended as follows.

196.2

After section 9B insert—

########### British Sign Language interpreters for deaf jurors

196.2.9C

196.2.9C.1

For the purpose of section 9B(2), in determining whether or not a person who
is deaf should act as a juror, the judge must consider whether the assistance
of a British Sign Language interpreter would enable that person to be capable
of acting effectively as a juror.

196.2.9C.2

Where the judge considers that the assistance of a British Sign Language
interpreter would enable the person to be capable of acting effectively as a
juror, the judge may appoint one or more interpreters to provide that
assistance, and affirm the summons.

196.2.9C.3

An interpreter appointed under subsection (2) may remain with the jury in the
course of their deliberations in proceedings before a court for the purpose of
enabling the person the interpreter is assisting to act effectively as a
juror.

196.2.9C.4

The interpreter must not interfere in or influence the deliberations of the
jury (see section 20I as to the offence).

196.3

After section 20G insert—

########### Application of certain provisions to British Sign Language interpreters

196.3.20H

196.3.20H.1

Section 12(1) and (2) (challenge for cause) apply to an interpreter appointed
under section 9C(2) as those provisions apply to jurors.

196.3.20H.2

Section 15A (surrender of electronic communications devices) applies to an
interpreter appointed under section 9C(2) as it applies to members of a jury.

196.3.20H.3

Section 20A (offence of research by jurors) applies to an interpreter
appointed under section 9C(2) as it applies to members of a jury with the
modification that the reference to “the trial period” in subsection (5), in
relation to an interpreter, is the period—

196.3.20H.3.a

beginning when the interpreter is appointed under section 9C(2), and

196.3.20H.3.b

ending when the judge discharges the jury or, if earlier, when the judge
discharges the interpreter.

196.3.20H.4

Section 20B (offence of sharing research with other jurors) applies to an
interpreter appointed under section 9C(2) as it applies to members of a jury,
but the references in section 20B to “section 20A” and “the trial period” are
to be read as references to “section 20A” and “the trial period” as modified
by subsection (3) of this section.

196.3.20H.5

In the following provisions of section 20F (exceptions to offence of
disclosing jury deliberations), the references to the conduct of a juror
include the conduct of an interpreter appointed under section 9C(2)—

196.3.20H.5.a

subsection (1)(b)(ii);

196.3.20H.5.b

subsection (4)(b);

196.3.20H.5.c

subsection (5).

########### Offence: interpreters interfering in or influencing jury deliberations

196.3.20I

196.3.20I.1

It is an offence for an interpreter appointed under section 9C(2)
intentionally to interfere in or influence the deliberations of the jury in
proceedings before a court.

196.3.20I.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable, on conviction on
indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years or a fine (or
both).

196.3.20I.3

Proceedings for an offence under this section may only be instituted by or
with the consent of the Attorney General.

196.4

In section 22(A1) (offences which do not affect contempt of court at common
law) for “or 20C” substitute  “, 20C or 20I” .

##### Continuation of criminal trial on death or discharge of a juror

197

In section 16 of the Juries Act 1974 (continuation of criminal trial on death
or discharge of juror)—

197.a

in subsection (1) for “subsections (2) and (3)” substitute  “subsection (3)” ,
and

197.b

omit subsection (2) (trials for offences punishable with death).

#### Transmission and recording of court and tribunal proceedings

##### Remote observation and recording of court and tribunal proceedings

198

198.1

In the Courts Act 2003, after section 85 insert—

########### Transmission and recording of court and tribunal proceedings

############ Remote observation and recording

############# Remote observation and recording of proceedings by direction of a court or tribunal

198.1.85A

198.1.85A.1

This section applies (subject to subsections (12) and (13)) to proceedings in
any court; and in this section “ court ” has the same meaning as in the
Contempt of Court Act 1981 (see section 19 of that Act).

198.1.85A.2

If the proceedings are specified under subsection  (8)(a) , the court may
direct that images or sounds of the proceedings are to be transmitted
electronically for the purpose of enabling persons not taking part in the
proceedings to watch or listen to the proceedings.

198.1.85A.3

A direction under subsection  (2)  may authorise only the following types of
transmission—

198.1.85A.3.a

transmission to designated live-streaming premises, or

198.1.85A.3.b

transmission to which individuals are given access only having first
identified themselves to the court (or to a person acting on behalf of the
court).

198.1.85A.4

In subsection  (3)(a) , “ designated live-streaming premises ” means premises
that are designated by the Lord Chancellor as premises that are made available
for members of the public to watch or listen to proceedings in accordance with
directions under subsection  (2) .

198.1.85A.5

A direction under subsection  (2)  may include further provision about—

198.1.85A.5.a

the manner of transmission, or

198.1.85A.5.b

the persons who are to be able to watch or listen to the transmission
(including provision making that ability subject to conditions, or aimed at
preventing persons who are not meant to watch or listen from being able to do
so).

198.1.85A.6

If images or sounds of the proceedings are transmitted electronically (whether
under a direction under subsection  (2)  or any other power), the court may
direct that a recording of the transmission is to be made, in the manner
specified in the direction, for the purpose of enabling the court to keep a
record of the proceedings.

198.1.85A.7

A direction under subsection  (2)  or  (6) —

198.1.85A.7.a

may relate to the whole, or to part, of the proceedings concerned, and

198.1.85A.7.b

may be varied or revoked.

198.1.85A.8

The Lord Chancellor may by regulations—

198.1.85A.8.a

specify proceedings (by reference to their type, the court in which they take
place, or any other circumstance) in relation to which directions under
subsection  (2)  may be made;

198.1.85A.8.b

specify matters of which the court must be satisfied before deciding to make
such a direction;

198.1.85A.8.c

specify matters that the court must take into account when deciding whether,
and on what terms, to make such a direction;

198.1.85A.8.d

require directions under subsection  (2)  to include certain provision under
subsection  (5) .

198.1.85A.9

Before making regulations under subsection  (8) , the Lord Chancellor must
determine whether the function of giving or withholding concurrence to the
regulations would most appropriately be exercised by—

198.1.85A.9.a

the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales,

198.1.85A.9.b

the Senior President of Tribunals, or

198.1.85A.9.c

both of them.

198.1.85A.10

Regulations under subsection  (8)  may be made only with the concurrence of
the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, the Senior President of
Tribunals, or both of them, as determined under subsection  (9) .

198.1.85A.11

Regulations under subsection  (8)  may make different provision for different
purposes.

198.1.85A.12

This section does not apply to proceedings in the Supreme Court.

198.1.85A.13

This section does not apply to proceedings if provision regulating the
procedure to be followed in those proceedings could be made by—

198.1.85A.13.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

198.1.85A.13.b

an Act of Senedd Cymru (including one passed with the consent of a Minister of
the Crown within the meaning of section 158(1) of the Government of Wales Act
2006), or

198.1.85A.13.c

an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly passed without the consent of the
Secretary of State.

198.2

In section 41 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925 (prohibition of photography etc
in court)—

198.2.a

after subsection (1) insert—

198.2.a.1ZA

Subsection (1) does not apply to anything done in accordance with a direction
under section  85A  of the Courts Act 2003 (remote observation and recording
of court and tribunal proceedings).

;

198.2.b

in subsection (1A), after “provide for” insert  “further” .

198.3

In section 29 of the  Criminal Justice Act (Northern Ireland) 1945 (c. 15
(N.I.))  (prohibition of photography etc in court), after subsection (1)
insert—

198.3.1A

Subsection (1) does not apply to anything done in accordance with a direction
under section 85A of the Courts Act 2003 (remote observation and recording of
court and tribunal proceedings).

198.4

In section 9 of the Contempt of Court Act 1981 (prohibition of tape recording
etc), after subsection (4) insert—

198.4.4A

This section does not apply to anything done in accordance with a direction
under section  85A  of the Courts Act 2003 (remote observation and recording
of court and tribunal proceedings).

198.5

In section 108(3) of the Courts Act 2003 (regulations and orders under that
Act subject to affirmative procedure), after paragraph (c) insert—

198.5.ca

regulations under section  85A (8)  (provision about directions for remote
observation of court and tribunal proceedings);

.

##### Offence of recording or transmission in relation to remote proceedings

199

In the Courts Act 2003, after section  85A  (inserted by section 198) insert—

######### Offence of recording or transmission

########## Offence of recording or transmission in relation to remote proceedings

199.85B

199.85B.1

It is an offence for a person to make, or attempt to make—

199.85B.1.a

an unauthorised recording, or

199.85B.1.b

an unauthorised transmission,

of an image or sound within subsection  (2)  or  (3) .

199.85B.2

An image or sound is within this subsection if it is an image or sound of
court proceedings that is being transmitted to the place where the recording
or transmission referred to in subsection  (1)  is made or attempted to be
made.

199.85B.3

An image or sound is within this subsection if it is an image or sound of a
person while that person is remotely attending court proceedings.

199.85B.4

A person is remotely attending court proceedings at any time when the person—

199.85B.4.a

is not in the same place as any member of the court, and

199.85B.4.b

is taking part in, watching or listening to the proceedings by way of a
transmission.

199.85B.5

For the purposes of this section a recording or transmission is “unauthorised”
unless it is—

199.85B.5.a

authorised (generally or specifically) by the court in which the proceedings
concerned are being conducted, or

199.85B.5.b

authorised (generally or specifically) by the Lord Chancellor.

199.85B.6

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection  (1)  to
prove that, at the time of the actual or attempted recording or transmission,
the person—

199.85B.6.a

was not in designated live-streaming premises, and

199.85B.6.b

did not know that the image or sound concerned was of a sort within subsection
(2)  or  (3) .

199.85B.7

In subsection  (6)(a) , “ designated live-streaming premises ” has the meaning
given by section  85A (4) .

199.85B.8

A person guilty of an offence under subsection  (1)  is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

199.85B.9

Conduct that amounts to an offence under subsection  (1)  is also a contempt
of court.

But a person cannot, in respect of the same conduct, be both convicted of the
offence and punished for the contempt.

199.85B.10

For the purposes of this section it does not matter whether a person making,
or attempting to make, a recording or transmission intends the recording or
transmission, or anything comprised in it, to be seen or heard by any other
person.

199.85B.11

This section does not apply to proceedings in the Supreme Court.

199.85B.12

This section does not apply to court proceedings if provision regulating the
procedure to be followed in those proceedings could be made by—

199.85B.12.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

199.85B.12.b

an Act of Senedd Cymru (including one passed with the consent of a Minister of
the Crown within the meaning of section 158(1) of the Government of Wales Act
2006), or

199.85B.12.c

an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly passed without the consent of the
Secretary of State.

199.85B.13

In this section—

      “ court ” has the same meaning as in the Contempt of Court Act 1981 (see
section 19 of that Act);           “ court proceedings ” means proceedings in
any court;           “ recording ” means a recording on any medium—         of
a single image, a moving image or any sound, or           from which a single
image, a moving image or any sound may be produced or reproduced;
“ transmission ” means any transmission by electronic means of a single image,
a moving image or any sound (and “ transmitted ” is to be construed
accordingly).

##### Expansion of use of video and audio links in criminal proceedings

200

200.1

In the Criminal Justice Act 2003, for section 51 substitute—

########### Directions for live links in criminal proceedings

200.1.51

200.1.51.1

The court may, by a direction, require or permit a person to take part in
eligible criminal proceedings through—

200.1.51.1.a

a live audio link, or

200.1.51.1.b

a live video link.

200.1.51.2

A direction under this section may be given in relation to a member of a jury
only if the direction requires all members of the jury to take part through a
live video link while present at the same place.

200.1.51.3

In this Part “ eligible criminal proceedings ” means—

200.1.51.3.a

a preliminary hearing (see section 56(1)),

200.1.51.3.b

a summary trial,

200.1.51.3.c

a criminal appeal to the Crown Court and any proceedings that are preliminary
or incidental to such an appeal,

200.1.51.3.d

a trial on indictment or any other trial in the Crown Court for an offence,

200.1.51.3.e

proceedings under section 4A or 5 of the Criminal Procedure (Insanity) Act
1964,

200.1.51.3.f

proceedings under Part 3 of the Mental Health Act 1983,

200.1.51.3.g

proceedings under—

200.1.51.3.g.i

section 11 of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000, or

200.1.51.3.g.ii

section 81(1)(g) of the Senior Courts Act 1981 or section 16 of this Act in
respect of a person who has been remanded by a magistrates’ court on
adjourning a case under that section of the 2000 Act,

200.1.51.3.h

an appeal to the criminal division of the Court of Appeal and any proceedings
that are preliminary or incidental to such an appeal,

200.1.51.3.i

a reference to the Court of Appeal by the Attorney General under Part 4 of the
Criminal Justice Act 1988 and any proceedings that are preliminary or
incidental to such a reference,

200.1.51.3.j

the hearing of a reference under section 9 or 11 of the Criminal Appeal Act
1995 and any proceedings that are preliminary or incidental to such a hearing,

200.1.51.3.k

a hearing before a magistrates’ court or the Crown Court which is held after
the defendant has entered a plea of guilty,

200.1.51.3.l

a hearing under section 142(1) or (2) of the Magistrates’ Courts Act 1980,

200.1.51.3.m

a hearing before the Court of Appeal under section 80 of this Act and any
proceedings that are preliminary or incidental to such a hearing,

200.1.51.3.n

any hearing following conviction held for the purpose of making a decision
about bail in respect of the person convicted,

200.1.51.3.o

a sentencing hearing (see section 56(1)), or

200.1.51.3.p

an enforcement hearing (see section 56(1)).

200.1.51.4

The court may not give a direction under this section unless—

200.1.51.4.a

the court is satisfied that it is in the interests of justice for the person
to whom the direction relates to take part in the proceedings in accordance
with the direction through the live audio link or live video link,

200.1.51.4.b

the parties to the proceedings have been given the opportunity to make
representations, and

200.1.51.4.c

if so required by section  52 (9) , the relevant youth offending team has been
given the opportunity to make representations.

200.1.51.5

In deciding whether to give a direction under this section, the court must
consider—

200.1.51.5.a

any guidance given by the Lord Chief Justice, and

200.1.51.5.b

all the circumstances of the case.

200.1.51.6

Those circumstances include in particular—

200.1.51.6.a

the availability of the person to whom the direction would relate,

200.1.51.6.b

any need for that person to attend in person,

200.1.51.6.c

the views of that person,

200.1.51.6.d

the suitability of the facilities at the place where that person would take
part in the proceedings in accordance with the direction,

200.1.51.6.e

whether that person would be able to take part in the proceedings effectively
if the person took part in accordance with the direction,

200.1.51.6.f

in the case of a direction relating to a witness—

200.1.51.6.f.i

the importance of the witness’s evidence to the proceedings, and

200.1.51.6.f.ii

whether the direction might tend to inhibit any party to the proceedings from
effectively testing the witness’s evidence, and

200.1.51.6.g

the arrangements that would or could be put in place for members of the public
to see or hear the proceedings as conducted in accordance with the direction.

200.2

In the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, omit Part 3A (live links in preliminary,
sentencing and enforcement hearings).

200.3

Schedule 20 makes further provision in connection with the provision made by
subsections  (1)  and  (2) .

##### Repeal of temporary provision

201

201.1

In the Coronavirus Act 2020, sections 53 and 54 and Schedules 23 and 24 (which
make temporary modifications that are superseded by the provision made by
section 200) are repealed.

201.2

In the Coronavirus Act 2020, section 55 and Schedule 25 (which make temporary
modifications that are superseded by the provision made by sections 198 and
199) are repealed.

##### Expedited procedure for initial regulations about remote observation of proceedings

202

202.1

This section applies in relation to the first regulations made under section
85A(8) of the Courts Act 2003 (as inserted by section 198(1)).

202.2

The regulations may be made without a draft of the instrument containing them
having been laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament (notwithstanding section 108(3) of the Courts Act 2003).

202.3

If regulations are made in reliance on subsection  (2) , the statutory
instrument containing them must be laid before Parliament after being made.

202.4

Regulations contained in a statutory instrument laid before Parliament under
subsection  (3)  cease to have effect at the end of the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the instrument is made unless, during that
period, the instrument is approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

202.5

In calculating the period of 28 days, no account is to be taken of any whole
days that fall within a period during which—

202.5.a

Parliament is dissolved or prorogued, or

202.5.b

either House of Parliament is adjourned for more than four days.

202.6

If regulations cease to have effect as a result of subsection  (4) , that does
not—

202.6.a

affect the validity of anything previously done under or by virtue of the
regulations, or

202.6.b

prevent the making of new regulations.

### Final provisions

#### Financial provision

203

There is to be paid out of money provided by Parliament—

203.a

any expenditure incurred under or by virtue of this Act by a Minister of the
Crown, government department or other public authority, and

203.b

any increase attributable to this Act in the sums payable under any other Act
out of money so provided.

#### Minor amendments arising out of sentencing consolidation

204

Schedule 21 makes minor amendments to the Sentencing Act 2020 and other
enactments in connection with the consolidation that led to that Act.

#### Power to make consequential provision

205

205.1

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
provision that is consequential on this Act.

205.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, amend, repeal or revoke
any enactment passed or made before, or in the same Session as, this Act.

205.3

In subsection  (2)  “ enactment ” includes—

205.3.a

an enactment contained in subordinate legislation within the meaning of the
Interpretation Act 1978,

205.3.b

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act or Measure
of Senedd Cymru,

205.3.c

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, an Act of the
Scottish Parliament, and

205.3.d

an enactment contained in, or in an instrument made under, Northern Ireland
legislation.

205.4

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

205.4.a

may make different provision for different purposes;

205.4.b

may make transitional, transitory or saving provision.

205.5

A statutory instrument containing (whether alone or with any other provision)
regulations under subsection  (1)  which amend, repeal or revoke primary
legislation may not be made unless a draft of the instrument has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament.

205.6

Any other statutory instrument containing regulations under subsection  (1)
is subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of either House of
Parliament.

205.7

In this section “ primary legislation ” means—

205.7.a

an Act of Parliament,

205.7.b

an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru,

205.7.c

an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

205.7.d

Northern Ireland legislation.

#### Power to state effect in Sentencing Act 2020 of commencement of amendments made by this Act

206

The power in section 419(1) of the Sentencing Act 2020 (power to state effect
of commencement provisions) applies in relation to any amendment or repeal
made by or under this Act of that Act as it applies in relation to an
amendment or repeal made by Schedule 22 to that Act.

#### Extent

207

207.1

This Act extends to England and Wales only, subject to the following
provisions of this section.

207.2

The following provisions extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland—

207.2.a

section 1;

207.2.b

sections 37 to 44 (and Schedule 3);

207.2.c

section 56(2);

207.2.d

section 202;

207.2.e

this Part, other than section 204 (and Schedule 21).

207.3

Sections 89(3) to (7), 141 and 143 extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

207.4

Section 161 extends to England and Wales and Northern Ireland.

207.5

A provision of this Act which amends, repeals or revokes an enactment has the
same extent within the United Kingdom as the enactment amended, repealed or
revoked, subject to subsections  (6)  to  (9) .

207.6

The following provisions extend to England and Wales only—

207.6.a

section 54;

207.6.b

sections 79, 81 and 83;

207.6.c

section 85;

207.6.d

section 90;

207.6.e

section 165;

207.6.f

sections 168 and 169;

207.6.g

section 193;

207.6.h

in Schedule 11, the amendments to the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and
the Police Act 1997.

207.7

Sections 198 and 199 extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern
Ireland.

207.8

In Schedule 18—

207.8.a

paragraphs 4 and 6 extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland,
and

207.8.b

paragraph 5 extends to England and Wales and Scotland only.

207.9

Section 170 extends to Scotland only.

207.10

Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section limits the extent within
the United Kingdom of any provision made, or inserted, by or under this Act so
far as it is applied (by whatever words) by or under the Armed Forces Act
2006.

207.11

Subsections (1) and (2) of section 384 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (extent
outside the United Kingdom) apply to the armed forces provisions as those
subsections apply to the provisions of that Act.

207.12

The following are “armed forces provisions”—

207.12.a

a provision made, or inserted, by or under this Act so far as it is applied
(by whatever words) by or under the Armed Forces Act 2006;

207.12.b

an amendment, modification or repeal made by or under this Act of—

207.12.b.i

a provision of or made under the Armed Forces Act 2006,

207.12.b.ii

a provision that amends, modifies or repeals a provision of, or made under,
that Act, or

207.12.b.iii

any other provision, so far as the provision is applied (by whatever words) by
or under that Act.

#### Commencement

208

208.1

Except as provided by subsections  (4)  and  (5) , this Act comes into force
on such day as the Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory
instrument appoint.

208.2

Regulations under subsection  (1)  may appoint different days for different
purposes or areas.

208.3

Subsection  (1)  is subject to sections 34, 161 and 166.

208.4

The following provisions of this Act come into force on the day on which this
Act is passed—

208.4.a

section 4 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.b

sections 8 to 12 (and Schedules 1 and 2) for the purposes of making
regulations;

208.4.c

section 13;

208.4.d

section 14 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.e

section 19 for the purposes of issuing guidance;

208.4.f

section 20 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.g

sections 22 and 23;

208.4.h

sections 24 to 26 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.i

section 31;

208.4.j

section 32 for the purposes of issuing guidance;

208.4.k

sections 34 to 36;

208.4.l

section 71;

208.4.m

section 72;

208.4.n

section 82 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.o

section 90 for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.p

section 132;

208.4.q

sections 140 to 143;

208.4.r

section 161(1) so far as relating to Part 2 of Schedule 17 (and that Part of
that Schedule) for the purposes of making regulations;

208.4.s

section 161(2) to (9);

208.4.t

sections 163 and 164;

208.4.u

section 165 for the purposes of issuing guidance and making regulations;

208.4.v

section 166;

208.4.w

section 167(2) to (4);

208.4.x

section 189;

208.4.y

section 190 for the purposes of making an order;

208.4.z

section 191;

208.4.aa

sections 198 and 199;

208.4.ab

section 202;

208.4.ac

this Part other than section 204 and Schedule 21.

208.5

The following provisions of this Act come into force at the end of the period
of two months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed—

208.5.a

section 2;

208.5.b

section 3;

208.5.c

sections 47 and 50;

208.5.d

section 51 (and Schedule 5);

208.5.e

sections 52 and 53;

208.5.f

section 54;

208.5.g

section 58;

208.5.h

section 59;

208.5.i

sections 83 to 88 (and Schedule 8);

208.5.j

sections 122 and 123;

208.5.k

section 124 (and Schedule 12);

208.5.l

sections 125 to 128;

208.5.m

sections 130 and 131;

208.5.n

section 135;

208.5.o

section 138;

208.5.p

sections 144 to 148;

208.5.q

sections 150 and 151;

208.5.r

section 153 (and Schedule 14);

208.5.s

section 154 (and Schedule 15);

208.5.t

sections 157 to 160 (and Schedule 16);

208.5.u

section 161(1) so far as relating to Parts 1, 4 and 5 of Schedule 17 (and
those Parts of that Schedule);

208.5.v

section 162;

208.5.w

sections 184 to 188 (and Schedule 19);

208.5.x

sections 196 and 197;

208.5.y

section 200 (and Schedule 20);

208.5.z

section 201(1);

208.5.aa

section 204 (and Schedule 21).

208.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations made by statutory instrument make
transitional, transitory or saving provision in connection with the coming
into force of any provision of this Act.

#### Short title

209

This Act may be cited as the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022.

## SCHEDULES

Specified authorities and local government areas

Section 11

Local government Specified authority Local government area A district council
The district A county council in England for an area for which there are no
district councils The district which coincides with the council’s area or, if
there is no such district, each district within the council’s area Any other
county council in England Each district which falls within the council’s area
A London borough council The London borough The Common Council of the City of
London in its capacity as a local authority The City of London The Council of
the Isles of Scilly The Isles of Scilly A county council in Wales The county A
county borough council in Wales The county borough

Criminal justice Specified authority Local government area A provider of
probation services within the meaning given by section 3(6) of the Offender
Management Act 2007 Each local government area in which the provider operates
A youth offending team established under section 39 of the Crime and Disorder
Act 1998 Each local government area which is, or which falls within, the area
of each local authority which established the team

Health and social care Specified authority Local government area   An
integrated care board established under section 14Z25   of the National Health
Service Act 2006 Each local government area which, or any part of which,
coincides with or falls within   the board’s   area A Local Health Board
established under section 11 of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006
Each local government area which, or any part of which, coincides with or
falls within the Board’s area

Police Specified authority Local government area A chief officer of police for
a police area in England and Wales Each local government area which coincides
with or falls within the police area

Fire and rescue authorities Specified authority Local government area A fire
and rescue authority constituted by a scheme under section 2 of the Fire and
Rescue Services Act 2004 or a scheme to which section 4 of that Act applies
Each local government area which, or any part of which, coincides with or
falls within the authority’s area A fire and rescue authority created by an
order under section 4A of the Fire and Rescue Services Act 2004 Each local
government area which, or any part of which, coincides with or falls within
the authority’s area A metropolitan county fire and rescue authority Each
district which falls within the authority’s area The London Fire Commissioner
Each London borough and the City of London

Educational, prison and youth custody authorities

Section 12

Educational authorities Educational authority Local government area The
governing body of— a community, foundation or voluntary school, or a community
or foundation special school, other than a school which is used wholly for the
purpose of providing education for children who are under compulsory school
age Each local government area in which the school is located The proprietor
(within the meaning given by section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996) of— an
Academy school, a 16 to 19 Academy, or an alternative provision Academy Each
local government area in which the Academy is located The proprietor (within
the meaning given by section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996) of any school
that has been approved under section 342 of the Education Act 1996, other than
a school which is used wholly for the purpose of providing education for
children who are under compulsory school age Each local government area in
which the school is located The proprietor (within the meaning given by
section 138(1) of the Education and Skills Act 2008) of any other independent
educational institution registered under section 95(1) of that Act Each local
government area in which the educational institution is located The proprietor
(within the meaning given by section 579(1) of the Education Act 1996) of any
other independent school registered under section 158 of the Education Act
2002 Each local government area in which the school is located The governing
body of an educational establishment maintained by a local authority in Wales
Each local government area in which the educational establishment is located
The management committee of a pupil referral unit Each local government area
in which the pupil referral unit is located Any other provider of education or
training to which Chapter 3 of Part 8 of the Education and Inspections Act
2006 applies, other than a provider that— is registered under the register
maintained by the Office for Students under section 3 of the Higher Education
and Research Act 2017, and is not an institution within the further education
sector as defined by section 91(3) of the Further and Higher Education Act
1992. Each local government area in which education or training is provided by
that provider

Prison authorities Prison authority Local government area The governor of a
prison in England and Wales (or, in the case of a contracted out prison within
the meaning given by section 84(4) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991, its
director) The local government area in which the prison is located

Youth custody authorities Youth custody authority  Local government area The
governor of a young offender institution (or, in the case of a contracted out
young offender institution within the meaning given by sections 84(4) and
92(1) of the Criminal Justice Act 1991, its director) The local government
area in which the young offender institution is located  The governor of a
secure training centre (or, in the case of a contracted out secure training
centre within the meaning given by section 15 of the Criminal Justice and
Public Order Act 1994, its director) The local government area in which the
secure training centre is located The principal of a secure college The local
government area in which the secure college is located  The manager of a
secure children’s home, within the meaning given by section 102(11) of the
Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012, which is used to
accommodate children remanded or sentenced to custody after being charged with
or convicted of an offence The local government area in which the secure
children’s home is located

Extraction of information from electronic devices: authorised persons

Section 44

##### Authorised persons in relation to all purposes within section 37 or 41

A constable of a police force in England and Wales. A member of staff
appointed by the chief officer of police of a police force in England and
Wales. An employee of the Common Council of the City of London who is under
the direction and control of a chief officer of police. A constable within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland) Act  2012 (asp 8)
(see section 99 of that Act). A member of staff appointed by the Scottish
Police Authority under section 26(1) of the Police and Fire Reform (Scotland)
Act 2012. A police officer within the meaning of the Police (Northern Ireland)
Act 2000 (see section 77(1) of that Act). A constable of the British Transport
Police Force. An employee of the British Transport Police Authority appointed
under section 27 of the Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003. A constable of
the Ministry of Defence police. A National Crime Agency officer.   A member of
the Royal Navy Police, the Royal Military Police or the Royal Air Force
Police.   A person who has been engaged to provide services consisting of or
including the extraction of information from electronic devices for the
purposes of the exercise of functions by a person listed in this Part of this
Schedule.

##### Authorised persons in relation to all purposes within section 37

... A person appointed as an immigration officer under paragraph 1 of Schedule
2 to the Immigration Act 1971. A person who is an enforcement officer by
virtue of section 15 of the Gangmasters (Licensing) Act 2004. A person who has
been engaged to provide services consisting of or including the extraction of
information from electronic devices for the purposes of the exercise of
functions by a person listed in this Part of this Schedule.

##### Authorised persons in relation to the prevention of crime etc only

An officer of Revenue and Customs. A person designated as a general customs
official or a customs revenue official under the Borders, Citizenship and
Immigration Act 2009 (see sections 3 and 11 of that Act).    An officer of the
department of the Secretary of State for Business and Trade. An officer of the
department of the Secretary of State for Energy Security and Net Zero. An
officer of the department of the Secretary of State for Science, Innovation
and Technology. A member of the Serious Fraud Office. A person appointed by
the Financial Conduct Authority under the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 to conduct an investigation. An officer of the Competition and Markets
Authority. A person who is authorised by the Food Standards Agency to act in
matters arising under or by virtue of the Food Safety Act 1990. A person who
is authorised for the purposes of Part 6 of the Social Security Administration
Act 1992. An inspector appointed under section 15 of the Child Support Act
1991. A person designated by the Director General of the Independent Office
for Police Conduct under paragraph 19(2) of Schedule 3 to the Police Reform
Act 2002. The Police Investigations and Review Commissioner. A person
designated by the Police Investigations and Review Commissioner under
paragraph 7B(1) of Schedule 4 to the Police, Public Order and Criminal Justice
(Scotland) Act  2006 (asp 10) . An officer appointed by the Police Ombudsman
for Northern Ireland under section 56(1) or (1A) of the Police (Northern
Ireland) Act 1998. A person who is an enforcement officer by virtue of section
303 of the Gambling Act 2005. A person who has been engaged to provide
services consisting of or including the extraction of information from
electronic devices for the purposes of the exercise of functions by a person
listed in this Part of this Schedule.

Pre-charge bail

Section 45

##### Grant of pre-charge bail

###### Amendments to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 

1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 30A (release of a person arrested elsewhere than at a police station)
is amended as follows.

2.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

2.2.1

If subsection (1A) applies, a constable may release on bail a person who is
arrested or taken into custody in the circumstances mentioned in section
30(1).

2.3

In subsection (1A)(b), for “a police officer of the rank of inspector or
above” substitute  “a custody officer” .

2.4

Before subsection (2) insert—

2.4.1C

If subsection (1A) does not apply, a constable may release without bail a
person who is arrested or taken into custody in the circumstances mentioned in
section 30(1).

2.5

In subsection (2), after “subsection (1)” insert  “or (1C)” .

3

3.1

Section 34 (limitations on police detention) is amended as follows.

3.2

For subsection (5) substitute—

3.2.5

A person whose release is ordered under subsection (2) must be released on
bail if subsection (5A) applies.

3.3

After subsection (5A) insert—

3.3.5AA

A person whose release is ordered under subsection (2) must be released
without bail if subsection (5A) does not apply.

3.4

In subsection (5B)(a), after “subsection (5)” insert  “or (5AA)” .

4

In section 36 (custody officers at police stations), after subsection (7B)
insert—

4.7C

The reference to a custody officer in section 30A(1A)(b) includes a reference
to an officer other than a custody officer who is performing the functions of
a custody officer by virtue of subsection (4) above.

5

5.1

Section 37 (duties of custody officer before charge) is amended as follows.

5.2

For subsection (2) substitute—

5.2.2

If—

5.2.2.a

the custody officer (“ C ”) determines that C does not have such evidence
before C, and

5.2.2.b

the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied,

the person arrested must be released on bail (subject to subsection (3)).

5.3

After subsection (2) insert—

5.3.2A

If—

5.3.2A.a

the custody officer (“ C ”) determines that C does not have such evidence
before C, and

5.3.2A.b

the pre-conditions for bail are not satisfied,

the person arrested must be released without bail (subject to subsection (3)).

5.4

In subsection (6A)(a), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or (2A)” .

5.5

In subsection (7), for paragraphs (b) and (c) (including the “or” at the end
of paragraph (c)) substitute—

5.5.b

shall be released—

5.5.b.i

without charge, and

5.5.b.ii

if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, on bail,

but not for the purpose mentioned in paragraph (a),

5.5.c

shall be released—

5.5.c.i

without charge, and

5.5.c.ii

if the pre-conditions for bail are not satisfied, without bail, or

.

5.6

In subsection (8A)(b), for “(c)” substitute  “(b)” .

6

6.1

Section 37CA (breach of bail following release under section 37(7)(c)) is
amended as follows.

6.2

In the section heading, for “section 37(7)(c)” substitute  “section 37(7)(b)”
.

6.3

In subsection (1), for “section 37(7)(c)” substitute  “section 37(7)(b)” .

6.4

In subsection (2), for paragraph (b) substitute—

6.4.b

shall be released—

6.4.b.i

without charge, and

6.4.b.ii

if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, on bail, or

6.4.c

shall be released—

6.4.c.i

without charge, and

6.4.c.ii

if the pre-conditions for bail are not satisfied, without bail.

7

In section 37D(4A) (release on bail under section 37: further provision), for
“section 37(7)(c)” substitute  “section 37(7)(b)” .

8

In section 41(7) (release following period of detention without charge), for
paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

8.a

on bail, if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

8.b

without bail, if those pre-conditions are not satisfied.

9

In section 42(10) (release following continued detention without charge), for
paragraphs (a) and (b) and the words following those paragraphs substitute—

9.a

on bail, if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

9.b

without bail, if those pre-conditions are not satisfied,

subject to subsection (10A).

10

10.1

Section 43 (warrants of further detention) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (15), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

10.2.a

on bail, if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

10.2.b

without bail, if those pre-conditions are not satisfied.

10.3

In subsection (18), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

10.3.a

on bail, if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

10.3.b

without bail, if those pre-conditions are not satisfied.

11

In section 44(7) (release following extension of warrants of further
detention), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute—

11.a

on bail, if the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

11.b

without bail, if those pre-conditions are not satisfied.

12

12.1

Section 47ZC (applicable bail period: conditions A to D) is amended as
follows.

12.2

In subsection (3)(a), for “section 37(7)(c)” substitute  “section 37(7)(b)” .

12.3

In subsection (4)(a), for “section 37(7)(c)” substitute  “section 37(7)(b)” .

13

In section 50A (interpretation of references to pre-conditions for bail), for
paragraph (b) substitute—

13.b

that the custody officer has considered any representations made by the person
or the person’s legal representative.

###### Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act 

14

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

15

15.1

Section 24A (arrest for failure to comply with conditions attached to
conditional caution) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsection (2), for paragraphs (b) and (c) substitute—

15.2.b

released without charge and on bail if—

15.2.b.i

the release is to enable a decision to be made as to whether the person should
be charged with the offence, and

15.2.b.ii

the pre-conditions for bail are satisfied, or

15.2.c

released without charge and without bail (with or without any variation in the
conditions attached to the caution) if paragraph (b) does not apply.

15.3

In subsection (3)(a), for “subsection (2)(c)” substitute  “subsection (2)(b)”
.

15.4

In subsection (4), for “subsection (2)(c)” substitute  “subsection (2)(b)” .

6

In section 24B(5) (application of PACE provisions), for “section 24A(2)(c)”
substitute  “section 24A(2)(b)” .

##### Factors to be taken into account in deciding whether to grant pre-charge bail

17

In section 30A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (release of person
arrested elsewhere than at police station), after subsection (1A) insert—

17.1B

In determining whether releasing the person on bail is necessary and
proportionate in all the circumstances, the constable must have regard in
particular to—

17.1B.a

the need to secure that the person surrenders to custody,

17.1B.b

the need to prevent offending by the person,

17.1B.c

the need to safeguard victims of crime and witnesses, taking into account any
vulnerabilities of any alleged victim of, or alleged witness to, the offence
for which the person was arrested where these vulnerabilities have been
identified by the constable,

17.1B.d

the need to safeguard the person, taking into account any vulnerabilities of
the person where these vulnerabilities have been identified by the constable,
and

17.1B.e

the need to manage risks to the public.

18

18.1

Section 50A of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (interpretation of
references to pre-conditions for bail) is amended as follows.

18.2

The existing text becomes subsection (1).

18.3

After that subsection insert—

18.3.2

In determining whether releasing the person on bail is necessary and
proportionate in all the circumstances, the custody officer must have regard
in particular to—

18.3.2.a

the need to secure that the person surrenders to custody,

18.3.2.b

the need to prevent offending by the person,

18.3.2.c

the need to safeguard victims of crime and witnesses, taking into account any
vulnerabilities of any alleged victim of, or alleged witness to, the offence
for which the person was arrested where these vulnerabilities have been
identified by the custody officer,

18.3.2.d

the need to safeguard the person, taking into account any vulnerabilities of
the person where these vulnerabilities have been identified by the custody
officer, and

18.3.2.e

the need to manage risks to the public.

##### Duty to seek views of alleged victims

###### Amendments to the Bail Act 

19

In section 3A of the Bail Act 1976 (conditions of bail in case of police
bail), after subsection (6) insert—

19.7

For further provision about the grant of bail by a custody officer under Part
4 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 or the variation by a custody
officer of the conditions of bail granted under that Part, see section 47ZZA
of that Act.

###### Amendments to the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 

20

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

21

21.1

Section 30CA (bail under section 30A: variation of conditions by police) is
amended as follows.

21.2

After subsection (4) insert—

21.2.4A

If it is reasonably practicable to do so, the investigating officer must seek
the views of the alleged victim (if any) of the relevant offence on—

21.2.4A.a

whether any of the conditions that are relevant conditions should be varied
under subsection (1), and

21.2.4A.b

if so, what variations should be made to those conditions.

21.2.4B

The investigating officer must inform the relevant officer of any views
obtained under subsection (4A).

21.2.4C

If any of the conditions which are relevant conditions are varied under
subsection (1), the investigating officer must, if it is reasonably
practicable to do so, notify the alleged victim of the variations.

21.2.4D

If the alleged victim of the relevant offence appears to the investigating
officer to be vulnerable, subsections (4A) and (4C) apply as if references to
the alleged victim of the offence were to a person appearing to the officer to
represent the alleged victim.

21.3

For subsection (5) substitute—

21.3.5

In this section—

“ investigating officer ”, in relation to the relevant offence, means the
constable or other person in charge of the investigation of the offence; “
relevant condition ”, in relation to the relevant offence and an alleged
victim of that offence, means a condition that relates to the safeguarding of
the alleged victim; “ relevant offence ” means the offence for which the
person making the request under subsection (1) was under arrest when granted
bail under section 30A(1); “ relevant officer ”, in relation to a designated
police station, means a custody officer but, in relation to any other police
station— means a constable who is not involved in the investigation of the
relevant offence, if such a constable is readily available, and if no such
constable is readily available— means a constable other than the one who
granted bail to the person, if such a constable is readily available, and if
no such constable is readily available, means the constable who granted bail.

21.3.6

For the purposes of this section a person (“ P ”) is an alleged victim of an
offence if—

21.3.6.a

an allegation has been made to a constable or other person involved in the
investigation of the offence that P has suffered physical, mental or emotional
harm, or economic loss, which was directly caused by the offence, and

21.3.6.b

P is an individual.

21.3.7

For the purposes of this section an alleged victim of an offence is vulnerable
if the alleged victim—

21.3.7.a

was aged under 18 at the time of the offence, or

21.3.7.b

may have difficulty understanding a communication from an investigating
officer under this section, or communicating effectively in response to it, by
reason of—

21.3.7.b.i

a physical disability or disorder,

21.3.7.b.ii

a mental disorder within the meaning of the Mental Health Act 1983, or

21.3.7.b.iii

a significant impairment of intelligence and social functioning.

22

After section 47 insert—

########## Duty to seek views of alleged victims on conditions of pre-charge bail

22.47ZZA

22.47ZZA.1

Subsections (2) to (5) apply if—

22.47ZZA.1.a

a person has been arrested for an offence, and

22.47ZZA.1.b

a custody officer proposes to release the person on bail under this Part
(except section 37C(2)(b) or 37CA(2)(b)).

22.47ZZA.2

If it is reasonably practicable to do so, the investigating officer must seek
the views of the alleged victim (if any) of the offence on—

22.47ZZA.2.a

whether relevant conditions should be imposed on the person’s bail, and

22.47ZZA.2.b

if so, what relevant conditions should be imposed.

22.47ZZA.3

In this section “ relevant condition ”, in relation to an offence and an
alleged victim of that offence, means a condition that relates to the
safeguarding of the alleged victim.

22.47ZZA.4

The investigating officer must inform the custody officer of any views
obtained under subsection (2).

22.47ZZA.5

If the person is granted bail subject to relevant conditions, the
investigating officer must, if it is reasonably practicable to do so, notify
the alleged victim of the offence of those conditions.

22.47ZZA.6

If the alleged victim of the offence appears to the investigating officer to
be vulnerable, subsections (2) and (5) apply as if references to the alleged
victim of the offence were to a person appearing to the officer to represent
the alleged victim.

22.47ZZA.7

Subsections (8) to (11) apply if—

22.47ZZA.7.a

a person has been arrested for an offence,

22.47ZZA.7.b

the person has been released on bail under this Part subject to conditions,
and

22.47ZZA.7.c

the person requests a custody officer to vary the conditions under section
3A(8) of the Bail Act 1976.

22.47ZZA.8

If it is reasonably practicable to do so, the investigating officer must seek
the views of the alleged victim (if any) of the offence on—

22.47ZZA.8.a

whether any of the conditions that are relevant conditions should be varied,
and

22.47ZZA.8.b

if so, what variations should be made to those conditions.

22.47ZZA.9

The investigating officer must inform the custody officer of any views
obtained under subsection (8).

22.47ZZA.10

If any of the conditions which are relevant conditions are varied, the
investigating officer must, if it is reasonably practicable to do so, notify
the alleged victim of the variations.

22.47ZZA.11

If the alleged victim of the offence appears to the investigating officer to
be vulnerable, subsections (8) and (10) apply as if references to the alleged
victim of the offence were to a person appearing to the officer to represent
the alleged victim.

22.47ZZA.12

In this section “ investigating officer ”, in relation to an offence, means
the constable or other person in charge of the investigation of the offence.

22.47ZZA.13

For the purposes of this section a person (“ P ”) is an alleged victim of an
offence if—

22.47ZZA.13.a

an allegation has been made to a constable or other person involved in the
investigation of the offence that P has suffered physical, mental or emotional
harm, or economic loss, which was directly caused by the offence, and

22.47ZZA.13.b

P is an individual.

22.47ZZA.14

For the purposes of this section an alleged victim of an offence is vulnerable
if the alleged victim—

22.47ZZA.14.a

was aged under 18 at the time of the offence, or

22.47ZZA.14.b

may have difficulty understanding a communication from an investigating
officer under this section, or communicating effectively in response to it, by
reason of—

22.47ZZA.14.b.i

a physical disability or disorder,

22.47ZZA.14.b.ii

a mental disorder within the meaning of the Mental Health Act 1983, or

22.47ZZA.14.b.iii

a significant impairment of intelligence and social functioning.

###### Amendments to the Criminal Justice Act 

23

In section 24B(3) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (arrest for failure to
comply with conditions of conditional caution: application of PACE
provisions)—

23.a

before paragraph (a) insert—

23.a.za

in section 30CA, omit subsections (4A) to (4D)

, and

23.b

in paragraph (a), for the words from “in section 30CA(5)(a)” to “provision”
substitute  “in section 30CA(5), in paragraph (a) of the definition of
“relevant officer”, for the reference to being involved in the investigation
of the relevant offence” .

##### Limits on period of bail without charge

24

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

25

In section 30B(8) (notice of release under section 30A: bail end date), for
“28 days” substitute  “3 months” .

26

26.1

Section 47ZB (applicable bail period: initial limit) is amended as follows.

26.2

In subsection (1)—

26.2.a

in paragraph (a)—

26.2.a.i

for “SFO case” substitute  “FCA case, HMRC case, NCA case or SFO case” , and

26.2.a.ii

for “3 months” substitute  “6 months” , and

26.2.b

in paragraph (b)—

26.2.b.i

for “in an FCA case or any other case” substitute  “in any other case” , and

26.2.b.ii

for “28 days” substitute  “3 months” .

26.3

In subsection (4)—

26.3.a

in paragraph (b)(ii), for “a senior officer” substitute  “a member of staff of
that Authority who is of the description designated for the purposes of this
sub-paragraph by the Chief Executive of that Authority” ,

26.3.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

26.3.b.ba

an “HMRC case” is a case in which—

26.3.b.ba.i

the relevant offence in relation to the person is being investigated by an
officer of Revenue and Customs, and

26.3.b.ba.ii

an officer of Revenue and Customs confirms that sub-paragraph (i) applies,

26.3.b.bb

an “NCA case” is a case in which—

26.3.b.bb.i

the relevant offence in relation to the person is being investigated by the
National Crime Agency, and

26.3.b.bb.ii

a National Crime Agency officer confirms that sub-paragraph (i) applies,

,

26.3.c

in paragraph (c)(ii), for “a senior officer” substitute  “a member of the
Serious Fraud Office” , and

26.3.d

omit paragraph (d) and the “and” preceding that paragraph.

27

In section 47ZC (applicable bail period: conditions A to D in sections 47ZD to
47ZG), in subsection (6)—

27.a

in paragraph (a), for “senior officer” substitute  “relevant officer” ,

27.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

27.b.aa

in relation to a condition which falls to be considered by virtue of section
47ZDA, the senior officer in question;

27.b.ab

in relation to a condition which falls to be considered by virtue of section
47ZDB, the appropriate decision-maker in question,

, and

27.c

in paragraph (b), for “appropriate decision-maker” substitute  “qualifying
police officer” .

28

28.1

Section 47ZD (applicable bail period: extension of initial limit in standard
cases) is amended as follows.

28.2

In subsection (1)(c), for “senior officer” substitute  “relevant officer” .

28.3

In subsection (2)—

28.3.a

for “senior officer” substitute  “relevant officer” , and

28.3.b

for “3 months” substitute  “6 months” .

28.4

In subsections (3) to (5), for “senior officer” substitute  “relevant officer”
.

28.5

After subsection (5) insert—

28.5.6

For the purposes of this Part “ relevant officer ” means a police officer of
the rank of inspector or above.

29

After section 47ZD insert—

######### Applicable bail period: further extension of limit in standard cases

29.47ZDA

29.47ZDA.1

This section applies in relation to a person if—

29.47ZDA.1.a

a relevant officer has authorised an extension of the applicable bail period
in relation to the person under section 47ZD,

29.47ZDA.1.b

that period has not ended, and

29.47ZDA.1.c

a senior officer is satisfied that conditions A to D are met in relation to
the person.

29.47ZDA.2

The senior officer may authorise the applicable bail period in relation to the
person to be extended so that it ends at the end of the period of 9 months
beginning with the person’s bail start date.

29.47ZDA.3

Before determining whether to give an authorisation under subsection (2) in
relation to a person, the senior officer must arrange for the person or the
person’s legal representative to be informed that a determination is to be
made.

29.47ZDA.4

In determining whether to give an authorisation under subsection (2) in
relation to a person, the senior officer must consider any representations
made by the person or the person’s legal representative.

29.47ZDA.5

The senior officer must arrange for the person or the person’s legal
representative to be informed whether an authorisation under subsection (2)
has been given in relation to the person.

29.47ZDA.6

For the purposes of this Part “ senior officer ” means a police officer of the
rank of superintendent or above.

######### Applicable bail period: extension of limit in non-standard cases

29.47ZDB

29.47ZDB.1

This section applies in relation to a person if—

29.47ZDB.1.a

the applicable bail period in relation to a person is the period mentioned in
section 47ZB(1)(a),

29.47ZDB.1.b

that period has not ended, and

29.47ZDB.1.c

an appropriate decision-maker is satisfied that conditions A to D are met in
relation to the person.

29.47ZDB.2

The appropriate decision-maker may authorise the applicable bail period in
relation to the person to be extended so that it ends at the end of the period
of 12 months beginning with the person’s bail start date.

29.47ZDB.3

Before determining whether to give an authorisation under subsection (2) in
relation to a person, the appropriate decision-maker must arrange for the
person or the person’s legal representative to be informed that a
determination is to be made.

29.47ZDB.4

In determining whether to give an authorisation under subsection (2) in
relation to a person, the appropriate decision-maker must consider any
representations made by the person or the person’s legal representative.

29.47ZDB.5

The appropriate decision-maker must arrange for the person or the person’s
legal representative to be informed whether an authorisation under subsection
(2) has been given in relation to the person.

29.47ZDB.6

For the purposes of this Part “ appropriate decision-maker ” means—

29.47ZDB.6.a

in an FCA case, a member of staff of the Financial Conduct Authority who is of
the description designated for the purposes of this section by the Chief
Executive of that Authority,

29.47ZDB.6.b

in an HMRC case, an officer of Revenue and Customs of a grade that is
equivalent to the rank of superintendent or above,

29.47ZDB.6.c

in an NCA case, a National Crime Agency officer of a grade that is equivalent
to the rank of superintendent or above, and

29.47ZDB.6.d

in an SFO case, a member of the Serious Fraud Office who is of the Senior
Civil Service.

30

30.1

Section 47ZE (applicable bail period: extension of limit in designated cases)
is amended as follows.

30.2

In subsection (1), for paragraphs (a) and (b) substitute  “a senior officer
has authorised an extension of the applicable bail period in relation to the
person under section 47ZDA.”

30.3

In subsection (2), for “A qualifying prosecutor” substitute  “The Director of
Public Prosecutions” .

30.4

In subsection (3)—

30.4.a

for “an appropriate decision-maker” substitute  “a qualifying police officer”
,

30.4.b

for “the decision maker” substitute  “the officer” , and

30.4.c

for “6 months” substitute  “12 months” .

30.5

Omit subsection (4).

30.6

In subsection (5)—

30.6.a

in paragraph (a), for “appropriate decision-maker” substitute  “qualifying
police officer” , and

30.6.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

30.6.b.b

the qualifying police officer must consult the Director of Public
Prosecutions.

30.7

In subsections (6) and (7), for “appropriate decision-maker” substitute
“qualifying police officer” .

30.8

In subsection (9) omit the definition of “qualifying prosecutor” and the “and”
immediately before that definition.

31

31.1

Section 47ZF (applicable bail period: first extension of limit by court) is
amended as follows.

31.2

In subsection (1)—

31.2.a

omit paragraph (a),

31.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “section 47ZD” substitute  “section 47ZDA” ,

31.2.c

after paragraph (b) (but before the “or” at the end of that paragraph) insert—

31.2.c.ba

an appropriate decision-maker has authorised an extension of the applicable
bail period in relation to the person under section 47ZDB,

, and

31.2.d

in paragraph (c), for “an appropriate decision-maker” substitute  “a
qualifying police officer” .

31.3

In subsection (4)—

31.3.a

in paragraph (a)—

31.3.a.i

for “subsection (1)(a) or (b)” substitute  “subsection (1)(b)” , and

31.3.a.ii

for “6 months” substitute  “12 months” , and

31.3.b

in paragraph (b)—

31.3.b.i

for “subsection (1)(c)” substitute  “subsection (1)(ba) or (c)” , and

31.3.b.ii

for “9 months” substitute  “18 months” .

31.4

In subsection (6)—

31.4.a

in paragraph (a)—

31.4.a.i

for “subsection (1)(a) or (b)” substitute  “subsection (1)(b)” , and

31.4.a.ii

for “9 months” substitute  “18 months” , and

31.4.b

in paragraph (b)—

31.4.b.i

for “subsection (1)(c)” substitute  “subsection (1)(ba) or (c)” , and

31.4.b.ii

for “12 months” substitute  “24 months” .

31.5

In subsection (8), after paragraph (b) insert—

31.5.ba

an officer of Revenue and Customs,

31.5.bb

a National Crime Agency officer,

.

32

In section 47ZI (sections 47ZF to 47ZH: proceedings in magistrates’ court), in
each of subsections (2)(a) and (3)(a), for “12 months” substitute  “24 months”
.

33

In section 47ZM(2) (applicable bail period: special case of release on bail
under section 30A), for “28 days”, in both places, substitute  “3 months” .

##### Police detention after arrest for breach of pre-charge bail etc

34

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

35

In section 41 (limits on period of detention without charge), after subsection
(12) insert—

35.13

Section 47(6) and (6A) makes further provision about the calculation of a
period of police detention for the purposes of this Part.

36

In section 47 (bail after arrest), after subsection (6) insert—

36.6A

Where a person has been arrested under section 46A above (other than in a case
within subsection (1ZA) or (1ZB) of that section) the period of 3 hours
beginning with the time at which the person arrives at a police station
following the arrest is not to be included as part of any period of police
detention which falls to be calculated in relation to the person under this
Part of this Act.

##### Guidance on pre-charge bail

37

In the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, after section 50A insert—

######### Guidance from the College of Policing on pre-charge bail

37.50B

37.50B.1

The College of Policing may, with the approval of the Secretary of State,
issue guidance on bail that is granted to a person under Part 3 or this Part
(“pre-charge bail”).

37.50B.2

Guidance on pre-charge bail may in particular cover—

37.50B.2.a

the exercise of powers to release a person on pre-charge bail;

37.50B.2.b

the exercise of powers to impose or vary conditions of pre-charge bail;

37.50B.2.c

the exercise of powers to arrest a person—

37.50B.2.c.i

for failing to answer pre-charge bail, or

37.50B.2.c.ii

for breaching any conditions of pre-charge bail;

37.50B.2.d

the exercise of powers to extend the period of pre-charge bail;

37.50B.2.e

the duty to seek the views of alleged victims about conditions of pre-charge
bail.

37.50B.3

The College of Policing may, with the approval of the Secretary of State, from
time to time revise the whole or any part of its guidance on pre-charge bail.

37.50B.4

Before issuing or revising guidance on pre-charge bail, the College of
Policing must consult—

37.50B.4.a

the National Police Chiefs’ Council,

37.50B.4.b

such persons as appear to the College to represent the views of local policing
bodies, and

37.50B.4.c

such other persons as the College thinks fit.

37.50B.5

The Secretary of State must lay before Parliament any guidance on pre-charge
bail issued by the College of Policing, and any revision of such guidance.

37.50B.6

The Secretary of State is not required by subsection  (5)  to lay before
Parliament, or may exclude from what is laid, anything the publication of
which, in the opinion of the Secretary of State—

37.50B.6.a

could prejudice the prevention or detection of crime or the apprehension or
prosecution of offenders, or

37.50B.6.b

could jeopardise the safety of any person.

37.50B.7

A person who exercises functions relating to pre-charge bail must have regard
to the guidance.

37.50B.8

But subsection (7) does not apply to—

37.50B.8.a

a member of the Serious Fraud Office,

37.50B.8.b

a member of staff of the Financial Conduct Authority,

37.50B.8.c

an officer of Revenue and Customs, or

37.50B.8.d

a National Crime Agency officer.

37.50B.9

A failure on the part of a person to whom subsection (7) applies to comply
with the guidance does not of itself render the person liable to any criminal
or civil proceedings.

37.50B.10

But guidance on pre-charge bail is admissible in evidence in criminal or civil
proceedings and a court may take into account a failure to comply with it in
determining a question in the proceedings.

Overseas production orders

Section 51

1

The Crime (Overseas Production Orders) Act 2019 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 3 (meaning of “ electronic data ” and “ excepted electronic data ”) is
amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (4), at the end insert  “, other than communications data to
which subsection (4A) applies” .

2.3

After subsection (4) insert—

2.3.4A

This subsection applies to communications data which is comprised in, included
as part of, attached to or logically associated with electronic data which,
apart from this subsection, may be specified or described in the application
for the overseas production order.

3

In section 5(3) (content of order: requirements fulfilled by reference to part
only of data sought) for “4(5) or (7)” substitute  “4(5), (6) or (7)” .

4

4.1

Section 9 (restrictions on service of order) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (2), after “the Secretary of State” insert  “or a prescribed
person” .

4.3

In subsection (3), after “the Lord Advocate” insert  “or a prescribed person”
.

4.4

In subsection (4)—

4.4.a

for “The Secretary of State or, as the case may be, the Lord Advocate”
substitute  “A person” , and

4.4.b

for “the Secretary of State or the Lord Advocate” substitute  “that person” .

4.5

After subsection (4) insert—

4.5.5

In this section “prescribed person”—

4.5.5.a

in relation to an overseas production order made in England and Wales or
Northern Ireland, means a person prescribed by regulations made by the
Secretary of State;

4.5.5.b

in relation to an overseas production order made in Scotland, means a person
prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Advocate.

5

5.1

Section 14 (means of service) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (3)(d)—

5.2.a

in sub-paragraph (i), after “the Secretary of State” insert  “or a prescribed
person” , and

5.2.b

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “the Lord Advocate” insert  “or a prescribed
person” .

5.3

After subsection (5) insert—

5.3.6

In this section “prescribed person”—

5.3.6.a

in relation to an order, notice or other document made or issued in England
and Wales or Northern Ireland, means a person prescribed by regulations made
by the Secretary of State;

5.3.6.b

in relation to an order, notice or other document made or issued in Scotland,
means a person prescribed by regulations made by the Lord Advocate.

6

In section 15(3) (modifications of section 9 in the case of an order made on
application by the service police)—

6.a

in paragraph (g)—

6.a.i

omit the “and” at the end of sub-paragraph (i), and

6.a.ii

at the end of sub-paragraph (ii) insert

, and

6.a.ii.iii

subsection (5) defined “prescribed person” as a person prescribed by
regulations made by the Secretary of State;

, and

6.b

for paragraph (h) substitute—

6.b.h

section 14 is to be read as if—

6.b.h.i

the reference in subsection (1)(c) to a court in England and Wales, Scotland
or Northern Ireland included the Court Martial,

6.b.h.ii

subsection (3)(d) referred only to arrangements made by the Secretary of State
or a prescribed person, and

6.b.h.iii

subsection (6) defined “prescribed person” as a person prescribed by
regulations made by the Secretary of State.

7

7.1

Section 17 (regulations) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (2), for “or 4(1)(b)” substitute  “, 4(1)(b), 9(5) or 14(6)” .

7.3

After subsection (5) insert—

7.3.6

Regulations made by the Lord Advocate under section 9(5) or 14(6) are subject
to the negative procedure (see section 28 of the Interpretation and
Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) ).

Special procedure for access to material relating to human remains

Section 56

##### Making of orders by judge

1

1.1

On an application made by a constable, a judge may make an order under
paragraph  2  if the judge is satisfied that the following conditions are met.

1.2

The first condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
material that consists of, or may relate to the location of, relevant human
remains—

1.2.a

is in the possession or control of a person specified in the application, or

1.2.b

is on premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the
application.

1.3

The second condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
the material consists of or includes excluded material or special procedure
material.

1.4

The third condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
the material does not consist of or include items subject to legal privilege.

1.5

The fourth condition is that other methods of obtaining the material—

1.5.a

have been tried without success, or

1.5.b

have not been tried because it appeared that they were bound to fail.

1.6

The fifth condition is that it is in the public interest, having regard—

1.6.a

to the need to ensure that human remains are located and disposed of in a
lawful manner, and

1.6.b

to the circumstances under which the person in possession of the material
holds it,

that the material should be produced or access to it should be given.

2

2.1

An order under this paragraph is an order that, before the end of the relevant
period, the person specified in the application must—

2.1.a

produce the material to a constable for the constable to take it away, or

2.1.b

give a constable access to it.

2.2

In sub-paragraph  (1)  “ the relevant period ” means 7 days from the date of
the order or such longer period as the order may specify.

3

Where the material consists of information stored in any electronic form—

3.a

an order under paragraph  2 (1) (a)  has effect as an order to produce the
material in a form in which it can be taken away and in which it is visible
and legible or from which it can readily be produced in a visible or legible
form, and

3.b

an order under paragraph  2 (1) (b)  has effect as an order to give a
constable access to the material in a form in which it is visible and legible.

4

For the purposes of sections 21 and 22 of the Police and Criminal Evidence Act
1984, material produced in pursuance of an order under paragraph  2 (1) (a)
is to be treated as if it were material seized by a constable.

##### Notices of applications for orders

5

5.1

An application for an order under paragraph  2  that relates to material that
consists of or includes journalistic material is to be made inter partes.

5.2

Notice of an application for an order under paragraph  2  that relates to such
material may be served on a person—

5.2.a

by delivering it to the person,

5.2.b

by leaving it at the person’s proper address, or

5.2.c

by sending it by post to the person in a registered letter or by a recorded
delivery service.

5.3

Notice of an application for an order under paragraph  2  that relates to such
material may be served—

5.3.a

on a body corporate, by serving it on the body’s secretary or clerk or other
similar officer;

5.3.b

on a partnership, by serving it on one of the partners.

5.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (2) , and of section 7 of the
Interpretation Act 1978 in its application to that sub-paragraph, the proper
address of a person—

5.4.a

in the case of a secretary or clerk or other similar officer of a body
corporate, is that of the registered or principal office of that body;

5.4.b

in the case of a partner of a firm is that of the principal office of the
firm;

5.4.c

in any other case is the last known address of the person to be served.

6

6.1

Where notice of an application for an order under paragraph  2  has been
served on a person, the person must not conceal, destroy, alter or dispose of
the material to which the application relates until sub-paragraph  (2)
applies except—

6.1.a

with the leave of a judge, or

6.1.b

with the written permission of a constable.

6.2

This paragraph applies when—

6.2.a

the application is dismissed or abandoned, or

6.2.b

the person has complied with an order under paragraph  2  made on the
application.

##### Failure to comply with order

7

7.1

If a person fails to comply with an order under paragraph  2 , a judge may
deal with the person as if the person had committed a contempt of the Crown
Court.

7.2

Any enactment relating to contempt of the Crown Court has effect in relation
to such a failure as if it were such a contempt.

##### Issue of warrants by judge

8

8.1

On an application made by a constable, a judge may issue a warrant authorising
a constable to enter and search premises if the judge is satisfied that the
conditions in this paragraph are met.

8.2

The first condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing that
there is material on the premises mentioned in sub-paragraph  (5)  below that
consists of, or may relate to the location of, relevant human remains.

8.3

The second condition is that each of the conditions set out in paragraph  1(3)
to  (6)  is met in relation to the material.

8.4

The third condition is that there are reasonable grounds for believing, in
relation to each set of premises specified in the application—

8.4.a

that it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled to grant
entry to the premises,

8.4.b

that it is practicable to communicate with a person entitled to grant entry to
the premises but it is not practicable to communicate with any person entitled
to grant access to the material,

8.4.c

that the material on the premises contains information which—

8.4.c.i

is subject to a restriction on disclosure or an obligation of secrecy
contained in any enactment, including an enactment contained in an Act passed
after this Act, and

8.4.c.ii

is likely to be disclosed in breach of it if a warrant is not issued, or

8.4.d

that service of notice of an application for an order under paragraph  2  may
seriously prejudice the purpose of the search.

8.5

The premises referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  are—

8.5.a

one or more sets of premises specified in the application (in which case the
application is for a “specific premises warrant”), or

8.5.b

any premises occupied or controlled by a person specified in the application,
including such sets of premises as are so specified (in which case the
application is for an “all premises warrant”).

9

If the application is for an all premises warrant, the judge must also be
satisfied—

9.a

that there are reasonable grounds for believing that it is necessary to search
premises occupied or controlled by the person in question which are not
specified in the application, as well as those which are, in order to find the
material in question, and

9.b

that it is not reasonably practicable to specify in the application all the
premises which the person occupies or controls and which might need to be
searched.

10

10.1

The warrant may authorise entry to and search of premises on more than one
occasion if, on the application, the judge is satisfied that it is necessary
to authorise multiple entries in order to achieve the purpose for which the
judge issues the warrant.

10.2

If the warrant authorises multiple entries, the number of entries authorised
may be unlimited, or limited to a maximum.

11

A constable may—

11.a

seize and retain anything for which a search has been authorised under
paragraph  8 , and

11.b

if necessary, use reasonable force in the exercise of a power conferred by a
warrant issued under that paragraph.

##### Procedural rules

12

Criminal Procedure Rules may make provision about proceedings under this
Schedule, other than proceedings for an order under paragraph  2  that relates
to material that consists of or includes journalistic material.

##### Costs

13

The costs of any application under this Schedule and of anything done or to be
done in pursuance of an order made under it shall be in the discretion of the
judge.

##### Interpretation

14

In this Schedule—

“ journalistic material ” has the same meaning as in the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 (see section 13 of that Act); “ judge ” means a Circuit
judge, a qualifying judge advocate (within the meaning of the Senior Courts
Act 1981) or a District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts).

Expedited public spaces protection orders

Section 82

1

The Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 is amended as follows.

2

In the heading of Chapter 2 of Part 4, at the end insert  “and expedited
orders” .

3

In the italic heading before section 59, at the end insert  “and expedited
orders” .

4

In the heading of section 59 (power to make orders), before “orders” insert
“public spaces protection” .

5

In the heading of section 60 (duration of orders), after “of” insert  “public
spaces protection” .

6

6.1

Section 61 (variation and discharge of orders) is amended as follows.

6.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “protection order”
insert  “or expedited order” .

6.3

In subsection (2), for “make a variation under subsection (1)(a)” substitute
“under subsection (1)(a) make a variation to a public spaces protection order”
.

6.4

After subsection (2) insert—

6.4.2A

A local authority may under subsection (1)(a) make a variation to an expedited
order that results in the order applying to an area to which it did not
previously apply only if the conditions in section 59A(2) to (4) are met as
regards that area.

6.5

In subsection (3), after “59(5)” insert  “or 59A(6) (as the case may be)” .

6.6

In subsection (4), after “order” insert  “or expedited order” .

7

7.1

Section 62 (premises etc to which alcohol prohibition does not apply) is
amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “order” insert
“or expedited order” .

7.3

In subsection (2), in the words before paragraph (a), after “order” insert
“or an expedited order” .

8

In section 63 (consumption of alcohol in breach of prohibition order), in
subsection (1)—

8.a

in paragraph (a), after “order” insert  “or an expedited order” ;

8.b

in the words after paragraph (b) omit “public spaces protection”.

9

9.1

Section 64 (orders restricting public right of way over highway) is amended as
follows.

9.2

In subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after “order” insert
“or expedited order” .

9.3

After subsection (1) insert—

9.3.1A

Before making a public spaces protection order that restricts the public right
of way over a highway, a local authority must take the prior consultation
steps (see subsection (2)).

9.3.1B

A local authority may not make an expedited order that restricts the public
right of way over a highway unless it—

9.3.1B.a

takes the prior consultation steps before making the order, or

9.3.1B.b

takes the subsequent consultation steps (see subsection (2A)) as soon as
reasonably practicable after making the order.

9.4

In subsection (2), for the words from “Before” to “must” substitute  “To take
the “ prior consultation steps ” in relation to an order means to” .

9.5

After subsection (2) insert—

9.5.2A

To take the “ subsequent consultation steps ” in relation to an expedited
order means to—

9.5.2A.a

notify potentially affected persons of the order,

9.5.2A.b

invite those persons to make representations within a specified period about
the terms and effects of the order,

9.5.2A.c

inform those persons how they can see a copy of the order, and

9.5.2A.d

consider any representations made.

The definition of “potentially affected persons” in subsection (2) applies to
this subsection as if the reference there to “the proposed order” were to “the
order”.

9.6

After subsection (3) insert—

9.6.3B

Where a local authority proposes to make an expedited order restricting the
public right of way over a highway that is also within the area of another
local authority it must, if it thinks appropriate to do so, consult that other
authority before, or as soon as reasonably practicable after, making the
order.

9.7

In subsections (4), (5), (6), (7) and (8), after “order” insert  “or expedited
order” .

10

In section 65 (categories of highway over which public right of way may not be
restricted), in subsection (1), in the words before paragraph (a), after
“order” insert  “or an expedited order” .

11

11.1

Section 66 (challenging validity of orders) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsections (1) and (6), after “public spaces protection order”, in each
place it occurs, insert  “or an expedited order” .

11.3

In subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a)—

11.3.a

after “order”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “or an expedited order” ;

11.3.b

for “a public spaces protection”, in the second place it occurs, substitute
“such an” .

12

12.1

Section 67 (offence of failing to comply with order) is amended as follows.

12.2

In subsections (1) and (4), after “order”, in each place it occurs, insert
“or an expedited order” .

12.3

In subsection (3), after “order” insert  “or expedited order” .

13

13.1

Section 68 (fixed penalty notices) is amended as follows.

13.2

In subsection (1), at the end insert  “or an expedited order” .

13.3

In subsection (3), at the end insert  “or expedited order” .

14

In section 70 (byelaws), after “protection order” insert  “or an expedited
order” .

15

15.1

Section 71 (bodies other than local authorities with statutory functions in
relation to land) is amended as follows.

15.2

In subsections (3) to (5), after “public spaces protection order”, in each
place it occurs, insert  “or an expedited order” .

15.3

In subsection (6)—

15.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “order” insert  “or expedited order” ;

15.3.b

in paragraph (b)(i), after “order” insert  “, or an expedited order,” .

16

In the heading of section 72 (Convention rights, consultation, publicity and
notification), at the beginning insert  “Public spaces protection orders:”

17

17.1

Section 74 (interpretation of Chapter 2 of Part 4) is amended as follows.

17.2

In subsection (1)—

17.2.a

at the appropriate places insert—

“ 16 to 19 Academy ” has the meaning given by section 1B of the Academies Act
2010;

;

“ expedited order ” has the meaning given by section 59A(1);

;

“ Local Health Board ” means a Local Health Board established under section 11
of the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006;

;

“ NHS body ” has the meaning given in section 275 of the National Health
Service Act 2006;

;

“ school ” has the meaning given by section 4 of the Education Act 1996.

;

17.2.b

for the definition of “restricted area” substitute—

“restricted area”— in relation to a public spaces protection order, has the
meaning given by section 59(4); in relation to an expedited order, has the
meaning given by section 59A(5).

17.3

After subsection (2) insert—

17.3.3

For the purposes of this Chapter, an expedited order “regulates” an activity
if the activity is—

17.3.3.a

prohibited by virtue of section 59A(5)(a), or

17.3.3.b

subjected to requirements by virtue of section 59A(5)(b),

whether or not for all persons and at all times.

Road traffic offences: minor and consequential amendments

Section 88

##### Road Traffic Act 

1

1.1

The Road Traffic Act 1988 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 12E (effect of motor race order), in the table in subsection (3)—

1.2.a

after the entry relating to section 2B of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing
death by careless, or inconsiderate, driving), insert—

Section 2C Causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving

1.2.b

in the entry relating to section 3ZB (causing death by driving: unlicensed,
disqualified or uninsured drivers), in the second column omit “,
disqualified”, and

1.2.c

after the entry relating to section 3ZB insert—

Section 3ZC Causing death by driving: disqualified drivers Section 3ZD Causing
serious injury by driving: disqualified drivers

1.3

In section 12H (races and trials of speed in Scotland: further provision), in
subsection (3), after “2B” insert  “, 2C” .

1.4

In section 13A(1) (disapplication of sections 1 to 3 for authorised motoring
events), after “2B” insert  “, 2C” .

##### Road Traffic Offenders Act 

2

2.1

The Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 24 (alternative verdicts: general), in subsection (1), in the
table—

2.2.a

in the entry relating to section 1A of the Road Traffic Act 1988 (causing
serious injury by dangerous driving), in the second column, after “Section 2
(dangerous driving)” insert  “Section 2C (causing serious injury by careless,
or inconsiderate, driving)” , and

2.2.b

after the entry relating to section 2B of that Act (causing death by careless,
or inconsiderate, driving), insert—

Section 2C (causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving)
Section 3 (careless, and inconsiderate, driving

2.3

In Schedule 1 (offences to which sections 1, 6, 11 and 12(1) apply), in the
table after paragraph 4, after the entry relating to section 2B of the Road
Traffic Act 1988 (causing death by careless, or inconsiderate, driving)
insert—

RTA section 2C Causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving
Sections 11 and 12(1) of this Act

##### Crime (International Co-operation) Act 

3

In paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to the Crime (International Co-operation) Act
2003 (application of duty to give notice of driving disqualification to
Republic of Ireland), after sub-paragraph (ba) insert—

3.bb

section 2C (causing serious injury by careless, or inconsiderate, driving),

.

##### Armed Forces Act 

4

In paragraph 12(aj) of Schedule 2 to the Armed Forces Act 2006 (road traffic
offences in relation to which duty to notify service police of possible
corresponding service offence arises)—

4.a

after “1A,” insert  “2C,” , and

4.b

after “injury by dangerous driving,” insert  “causing serious injury by
careless, or inconsiderate, driving,” .

Surrender of licences and test certificates by new drivers

Section 95

1

The Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 2 (surrender of licences) is amended as follows.

2.2

For the heading substitute  “Persons to whom section 3(1) applies” .

2.3

Before subsection (1), insert—

2.3.A1

Section 3(1) (revocation of licences) applies to a person who—

2.3.A1.a

is the holder of a licence, and

2.3.A1.b

satisfies the conditions in subsection (1) or (3).

2.4

In subsection (1)—

2.4.a

for “Subsection (2) applies where—” substitute  “A person satisfies the
conditions in this subsection if—” ;

2.4.b

omit paragraph (a);

2.4.c

in paragraph (b), for “he” substitute  “the person” ;

2.4.d

after paragraph (d), insert—

2.4.d.da

the Secretary of State is required under section 44A(2) of that Act to endorse
the person’s driving record with particulars of the offence and the penalty
points to be attributed to it;

;

2.4.e

in paragraph (e)—

2.4.e.i

after “person’s” insert  “driving record or” ;

2.4.e.ii

omit “, or that date has been shown by other evidence in the proceedings”;

2.4.f

in paragraph (f), for “court” substitute  “Secretary of State” .

2.5

Omit subsection (2).

2.6

In subsection (3)—

2.6.a

for “Subsection (4) applies where—” substitute  “A person satisfies the
conditions in this subsection if—” ;

2.6.b

for paragraph (a), substitute—

2.6.b.a

the person has been given a fixed penalty notice under section 54 of the Road
Traffic Offenders Act 1988 or a conditional offer has been issued to the
person under section 75 of that Act;

;

2.6.c

for paragraph (c), substitute—

2.6.c.c

the Secretary of State is required under section 57A(5) or 77A(2) of that Act
to endorse the person’s driving record with particulars of the offence and the
penalty points to be attributed to it;

;

2.6.d

in paragraph (d), for “appropriate person” substitute  “Secretary of State” ;

2.6.e

in paragraph (e), after the first “the” insert  “person’s driving record or” ;

2.6.f

in paragraph (f), for “appropriate person” substitute  “Secretary of State” .

2.7

Omit subsection (4).

2.8

Omit subsection (7).

3

3.1

Section 3 (revocation of licences) is amended as follows.

3.2

For subsection (1) substitute—

3.2.1

The Secretary of State must, in the case of a person to whom this subsection
applies (see section 2), by notice served on the person revoke the person’s
licence.

3.3

Omit subsection (1ZA).

3.4

In subsection (1A)—

3.4.a

in the words before paragraph (a), omit “or (1ZA)”;

3.4.b

in paragraph (b), at the beginning insert  “if the Secretary of State is
already in receipt of it,” .

3.5

In subsection (1B), omit “or (1ZA)”.

4

After section 3 insert—

######## Surrender of licences

4.3A

4.3A.1

Where—

4.3A.1.a

the Secretary of State is required under section 3(1) or (1B) to serve a
notice on a person revoking the person’s licence, and

4.3A.1.b

the Secretary of State is not already in receipt of the licence,

the notice may also require the person to surrender the licence to the
Secretary of State before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the
date on which the notice is served.

4.3A.2

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
imposed under subsection  (1) —

4.3A.2.a

is guilty of an offence, and

4.3A.2.b

is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the
standard scale.

4.3A.3

Where the Secretary of State receives a Northern Ireland licence pursuant to a
requirement to surrender it imposed under subsection  (1) , the Secretary of
State must send it to the licensing authority in Northern Ireland.

5

In section 9, for subsection (5) (interpretation: address for sending
licences, test certificates etc) substitute—

5.5

Any requirement under any provision of this Act that—

5.5.a

a licence, a test certificate or a notice must be sent to the Secretary of
State, or

5.5.b

a licence or a test certificate must be surrendered to the Secretary of State,

is a requirement that the licence, test certificate or notice must be sent, or
the licence or test certificate must be surrendered, to the Secretary of State
at such address as the Secretary of State may determine.

6

6.1

Schedule 1 (newly qualified drivers holding test certificates) is amended as
follows.

6.2

Omit—

6.2.a

paragraph 1(2A);

6.2.b

paragraph 2(1);

6.2.c

paragraph 3 and the heading before it;

6.2.d

paragraph 4 and the italic heading before it.

6.3

In paragraph 5—

6.3.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

6.3.a.1

Where—

6.3.a.1.a

there is a person to whom this Part of this Schedule applies,

6.3.a.1.b

the person satisfies the conditions in section 2(1)(b) to (da) and (f) or
(3)(a) to (d) and (f),

6.3.a.1.c

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person has been issued with a
test certificate, and

6.3.a.1.d

the person’s driving record, licence or test certificate shows the date on
which the person became a qualified driver,

the Secretary of State must by notice served on the person revoke the person’s
test certificate and this sub-paragraph applies to the person instead of
section 3(1).

;

6.3.b

omit sub-paragraph (1ZA);

6.3.c

in sub-paragraph (1A)—

6.3.c.i

omit “or (1ZA)”;

6.3.c.ii

after “with” insert  “, if the Secretary of State is already in receipt of
it,” ;

6.3.d

in sub-paragraph (1B), omit “or (1ZA)”.

6.4

After paragraph 5 insert—

########## Surrender of test certificate

6.4.5A

6.4.5A.1

Where—

6.4.5A.1.a

the Secretary of State is required under paragraph 5(1) or (1B) to serve a
notice on a person revoking the person’s test certificate, and

6.4.5A.1.b

the Secretary of State is not already in receipt of the test certificate,

the notice may also require the person to surrender the test certificate to
the Secretary of State before the end of the period of 28 days beginning with
the date on which the notice is served.

6.4.5A.2

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
imposed under sub-paragraph  (1) —

6.4.5A.2.a

is guilty of an offence, and

6.4.5A.2.b

is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the
standard scale.

6.4.5A.3

Where the Secretary of State receives a Northern Ireland test certificate
pursuant to a requirement to surrender it imposed under sub-paragraph  (1) ,
the Secretary of State must send it to the licensing authority in Northern
Ireland.

6.5

In paragraph 6(1), omit “or (1ZA)”.

6.6

Omit paragraph 7 and the italic heading before it.

6.7

In paragraph 8—

6.7.a

for sub-paragraph (1) substitute—

6.7.a.1

Where—

6.7.a.1.a

there is a person to whom this Part of this Schedule applies,

6.7.a.1.b

the person satisfies the conditions in section 2(1)(b) to (da) and (f) or
(3)(a) to (d) and (f),

6.7.a.1.c

the Secretary of State is satisfied that the person has been issued with a
test certificate, and

6.7.a.1.d

the person’s driving record, licence or test certificate shows the date on
which the person became a qualified driver,

the Secretary of State must by notice served on the person revoke the person’s
licence and test certificate and this sub-paragraph applies to the person
instead of section 3(1).

;

6.7.b

omit sub-paragraph (1ZA);

6.7.c

in sub-paragraph (1A)—

6.7.c.i

omit “or (1ZA)”, and

6.7.c.ii

for “the Northern Ireland licence and the Northern Ireland test certificate”
substitute

—

6.7.c.ii.a

if the Secretary of State is already in receipt of it, the Northern Ireland
licence, and

6.7.c.ii.b

if the Secretary of State is already in receipt of it, the Northern Ireland
test certificate.

;

6.7.d

in sub-paragraph (1B), omit “or (1ZA)”.

6.8

After paragraph 8 insert—

########## Surrender of licence and test certificate

6.8.8A

6.8.8A.1

Where—

6.8.8A.1.a

the Secretary of State is required under paragraph 8(1) or (1B) to serve a
notice on a person revoking the person’s licence and test certificate, and

6.8.8A.1.b

the Secretary of State is not already in receipt of the licence or test
certificate,

the notice may also require the person to surrender the licence, or test
certificate, or both (as the case may be) to the Secretary of State before the
end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the notice is
served.

6.8.8A.2

A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails to comply with a requirement
imposed under sub-paragraph  (1) —

6.8.8A.2.a

is guilty of an offence, and

6.8.8A.2.b

is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the
standard scale.

6.8.8A.3

Where the Secretary of State receives a Northern Ireland licence or a Northern
Ireland test certificate pursuant to a requirement to surrender it imposed
under sub-paragraph  (1) , the Secretary of State must send it to the
licensing authority in Northern Ireland.

6.9

In paragraph 9(1), omit “or (1ZA)”.

6.10

In paragraph 10(a), omit “or (1ZA)” in both places.

Surrender of licences: minor and consequential amendments

Section 96

##### Amendments to the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988

1

The Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 2 (requirement of warning etc: supplementary) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (2)—

2.2.a

omit “, or” at the end of paragraph (a);

2.2.b

omit paragraph (b).

3

3.1

Section 26 (interim disqualification) is amended as follows.

3.2

In subsection (8), omit “has not caused it to be delivered, or has not posted
it, in accordance with section 7 of this Act and”.

3.3

In subsection (9)—

3.3.a

omit “, or” at the end of paragraph (a);

3.3.b

omit paragraph (b).

4

4.1

Section 27 (production of licence) is amended as follows.

4.2

In subsection (3), omit “has not caused it to be delivered, or posted it, in
accordance with section 7 of this Act and”.

4.3

Omit subsection (4) (which has already been repealed as it extends to
Scotland).

4.4

Omit subsections (4A) and (5).

5

5.1

Section 47 (supplementary provisions as to disqualifications and endorsements)
is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (2), omit “a court orders the endorsement of a person’s driving
record it may, and where”.

5.3

Omit subsection (2A).

6

Omit section 56 (licence receipts).

7

7.1

Section 57A (endorsement of driving records without hearings) is amended as
follows.

7.2

In subsection (3)—

7.2.a

after “penalty is made” insert  “in accordance with this Part” ;

7.2.b

omit “and return to that person any licence surrendered by him under section
54 of this Act”.

7.3

In subsection (4), omit “and return to that person any licence surrendered by
him under section 54 of this Act”.

7.4

In subsection (5)(b), after “him” insert  “in accordance with this Part” .

8

8.1

Section 61A (fixed penalty notice mistakenly given: exclusion of fixed penalty
procedures) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (3), omit “and send the chief officer of police any licence sent
to him under section 54(7) of this Act”.

9

9.1

Section 69 (payment of penalty) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1), omit “or authorised person”.

10

10.1

Section 70 (registration certificates) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (2A)(a), omit “or given by an authorised person”.

10.3

In subsection (3A)(a), omit “or given by an authorised person”.

11

11.1

Section 79 (statements by constables) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (1), omit “or a notice under section 54(5) of this Act”.

11.3

In subsection (6)—

11.3.a

omit “, and” at the end of paragraph (a);

11.3.b

omit paragraph (b).

12

In section 80 (certificates about payment)—

12.a

in the heading, after “payment” insert  “etc” ;

12.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, or

12.b.c

that the identification requirements specified in section 69(3C) or 75(8B)
have been fulfilled,

;

12.c

in the words after paragraph (b), for “it” substitute  “the penalty” .

13

13.1

In section 84(a) (regulations), omit “54(5), 56,”.

13.2

The reference in sub-paragraph (1) of this paragraph to section 84(a) is to be
read as a reference to section 84(1)(a), if the condition in sub-paragraph (3)
is met.

13.3

The condition is that section 16(3) of the Domestic Violence, Crime and
Victims Act 2004 (which amends section 84) comes into force before the repeal
of section 54(5) of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 made by section
93(3)(b) of this Act.

14

14.1

Section 89 (interpretation) is amended as follows.

14.2

In subsection (1), omit the definition of “authorised person”.

14.3

In subsection (1), in the definition of “chief officer of police”, omit
“(except in the definition of “authorised person”)”.

15

15.1

Section 90 (index to Part 3) is amended as follows.

15.2

In the table, omit the entry for “authorised person”.

16

In section 91ZA(1) (application to Northern Ireland licence holders), after
paragraph (c) insert—

16.ca

section 37A,

.

17

In section 91A(1) (application to Community licence holders)—

17.a

omit “and (9)(b),”;

17.b

for “and 27” substitute  “, 27 and 37A” .

18

18.1

Schedule 1 (offences to which sections 1, 6, 11 and 12(1) apply) is amended as
follows.

18.2

In paragraph 2(a), after “section” insert  “37A or” .

18.3

In paragraph 2(d)—

18.3.a

after “under” insert  “section 3A(2) or” ;

18.3.b

for “3(5)” substitute  “5A(2) or 8A(2)” .

19

In Part 1 of Schedule 2 (prosecution and punishment of offences), in the entry
relating to section 27 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988, for the words
in column 2 (general nature of offence) substitute—

Failing to produce licence to court when required to do so.

##### Amendments to other Acts

###### Road Traffic Act 

20

The Road Traffic Act 1988 is amended as follows.

21

In section 93 (revocation of licence because of disability or prospective
disability), omit subsection (4).

22

In section 99 (duration of licences), omit subsection (6).

23

23.1

Section 164 (power of constables to require production of driving licence and
in certain cases statement of date of birth) is amended as follows.

23.2

After subsection (5), insert—

23.2.5A

If a person is required to surrender the person’s licence or test certificate
to the Secretary of State under—

23.2.5A.a

section 37A of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988, or

23.2.5A.b

section 3A of, or paragraph 5A or 8A of Schedule 1 to, the Road Traffic (New
Drivers) Act 1995,

and fails to do so, a constable or vehicle examiner may require the person to
produce the licence or test certificate and, upon its being produced, may
seize it and deliver it to the Secretary of State.

23.2.5B

In subsection (5A), “ test certificate ” has the same meaning as in Schedule 1
to the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995.

23.3

In subsection (6), for “(7) to” substitute  “(8) and” .

23.4

Omit subsection (7).

24

In section 166 (powers of certain officers as respects goods vehicles and
passenger-carrying vehicles), for “164(1) or (3)” substitute  “164(1), (3) or
(5A)” .

###### Crime (International Co-operation) Act 

25

In section 63 of the Crime (International Co-operation) Act 2003 (production
of licence: Great Britain), omit subsection (3).

##### Consequential repeals of amending enactments

###### Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 

26

In Schedule 2 to the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995, omit paragraph 4
(which amends section 47 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988).

###### Access to Justice Act 

27

In Schedule 13 to the Access to Justice Act 1999, omit—

27.a

paragraph 141 (which amends section 7 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988);

27.b

paragraph 144 (which amends section 27 of that Act);

27.c

paragraph 173 (which amends paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Road Traffic (New
Drivers) Act 1995).

###### Police Reform Act 

28

In section 76 of the Police Reform Act 2002, omit subsection (2) (which amends
section 54 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988).

###### Courts Act 

29

In Schedule 8 to the Courts Act 2003, omit—

29.a

paragraph 310 (which amends section 7 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988);

29.b

paragraph 313 (which amends section 27 of that Act);

29.c

paragraph 365 (which amends paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Road Traffic (New
Drivers) Act 1995).

###### Road Safety Act 

30

The Road Safety Act 2006 is amended as follows.

31

In section 10, omit—

31.a

subsections (5) and (6) (which amend section 54 of the Road Traffic Offenders
Act 1988);

31.b

subsections (10) and (11) (which amend section 57A of that Act).

32

In Schedule 1, omit—

32.a

paragraph 3(8) (which amends section 54 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act
1988);

32.b

paragraph 4 (which amends section 56 of that Act);

32.c

paragraph 18(5) (which amends section 79 of that Act);

32.d

paragraph 25 (which amends section 2 of the Road Traffic (New Drivers) Act
1995);

32.e

paragraph 26(3) and (4) (which amend section 3 of that Act);

32.f

paragraph 27(2), (3), (4), (5)(a) and (b), (6), (7), (8)(a) and (b), (9) and
(10) (which amend Schedule 1 to that Act).

33

In Schedule 2, omit paragraph 25(2)(b) (which amends section 76 of the Road
Traffic Offenders Act 1988).

34

In Schedule 3, omit—

34.a

paragraph 5(3) and (4) (which amend section 93 of the Road Traffic Act 1988);

34.b

paragraph 9(5) (which amends section 99 of that Act);

34.c

paragraph 26(6) (which amends section 164 of that Act);

34.d

paragraph 32(3) and (4) (which amend section 26 of the Road Traffic Offenders
Act 1988);

34.e

paragraph 33(5) (which amends section 27 of that Act);

34.f

paragraph 44(3) (which amends section 47 of that Act);

34.g

paragraph 46 (which amends section 56 of that Act);

34.h

paragraph 49(3) (which amends section 61A of that Act);

34.i

paragraph 54 (which amends section 77A of that Act);

34.j

paragraph 67(2), (3)(a) and (b) and (4) (which amend section 2 of the Road
Traffic (New Drivers) Act 1995);

34.k

paragraph 68 (which amends section 3 of that Act);

34.l

paragraph 70 (which amends Schedule 1 to that Act).

###### Criminal Justice and Courts Act 

35

In Schedule 11 to the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015, omit—

35.a

paragraph 9 (which amends section 7 of the Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988);

35.b

paragraph 11 (which amends section 27 of that Act).

Cautions: consequential amendments

Section 119

##### Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 

1

The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 is amended as follows.

2

In section 8A (protection afforded to spent cautions), in subsection (2)—

2.a

for paragraph (a) substitute—

2.a.aa

a diversionary caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022;

2.a.ab

a community caution under that Part of that Act;

2.a.ac

a caution given under section 22 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (conditional
cautions) in respect of an offence committed before the coming into force of
section 118 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022;

2.a.ad

a caution given under section 66A of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998
(conditional cautions for children and young persons);

;

2.b

in paragraph (d), for “(a) or” substitute  “(aa) to” .

3

3.1

Schedule 2 (protection for spent cautions) is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 1(1)(a), for the words from “conditional” to “section 8A(2)(a))”
substitute  “caution referred to in section 8A(2)(aa), (ac) or (ad)” .

3.3

In paragraph 2(1)(f), for “conditional caution” substitute  “caution referred
to in section 8A(2)(aa) to (ad)” .

##### Bail Act 

4

The Bail Act 1976 is amended as follows.

5

In section 3A (conditions of bail in case of police bail), in subsection (1),
for “Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003” substitute  “Part 6 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022” .

6

In section 5A (supplementary provision in case of police bail), in subsection
(1), for “Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003” substitute  “Part 6 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022” .

7

Paragraphs  5  and  6  do not affect the operation of the Bail Act 1976 in
relation to bail granted under Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 in
relation to offences committed before the day on which section 118(2) comes
into force.

##### Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 

8

In section 31R of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 (prohibition
of cross-examination in person: victims of offences), in subsection (5), in
paragraph (a) of the definition of “caution”, for sub-paragraph (i)
substitute—

8.i

a diversionary caution or community caution given under Part 6 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022,

8.ia

a caution given under section 22 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (conditional
cautions) in respect of an offence committed before the coming into force of
section 118 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022,

.

##### Police Act 

9

The Police Act 1997 is amended as follows.

10

10.1

Section 112 (criminal conviction certificates) is amended as follows.

10.2

In subsection (2), in paragraphs (a) and (b), for “conditional” substitute
“relevant” .

10.3

In subsection (3)—

10.3.a

in the definition of “central records” for “conditional” substitute
“relevant” ;

10.3.b

omit the definition of “conditional caution”;

10.3.c

at the end insert—

“ relevant caution ” means— a diversionary caution given under Part 6 of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022, a caution given under section
22 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (conditional cautions) in respect of an
offence committed before the coming into force of section 118 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022, or a caution given under section 66A of
the Crime and Disorder Act 1998, other than one that is spent for the purposes
of Schedule 2 to the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974;

.

11

11.1

Section 116A (up-dating certificates) is amended as follows.

11.2

In subsection (10), in paragraph (a), for “conditional cautions” substitute
“relevant cautions” .

11.3

In subsection (11), after the definition of “exempted question” insert—

“ relevant caution ” has the same meaning as in section 112;

.

##### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 

12

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

13

In section 34 (limitation on police detention), in subsection (5E)—

13.a

for “includes” substitute  “means” ;

13.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

13.b.a

a diversionary or community caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022;

.

14

In section 37B (consultation with DPP), in subsection (7), for “section 17 of
the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015” substitute  “any restriction on the
giving of the caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts
Act 2022” .

15

In section 60B (notification of decision not to prosecute person interviewed),
in subsection (4)—

15.a

for “includes” substitute  “means” ;

15.b

for paragraph (a) substitute—

15.b.a

a diversionary or community caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022;

.

16

In section 63B (testing for presence of Class A drugs), in subsection (7)(aa),
for “conditional caution under Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003”
substitute  “diversionary caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022” .

17

Omit section 63L (which relates to persons given a penalty notice).

18

In section 64A (photographing of suspects), in subsection (1B)—

18.a

after paragraph (ca) insert—

18.a.cb

given a diversionary or community caution under Part 6 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022;

;

18.b

in paragraph (d), omit the words from “a penalty notice” to “2001,”;

18.c

after paragraph (e) insert  “or” ;

18.d

omit paragraph (g) (and the “or” immediately before it).

19

Paragraphs  13  to  18  do not affect the operation of the Police and Criminal
Evidence Act 1984 in relation to conditional cautions given under Part 3 of
the Criminal Justice Act 2003, or penalty notices given under section 2 of the
Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, in relation to offences committed before
the day on which section 118(2) and (3) come into force.

##### Crime and Disorder Act 

20

The Crime and Disorder Act 1998 is amended as follows.

21

In section 66E (failure to comply with conditions), for subsections (4) and
(5) substitute—

21.4

If a constable has reasonable grounds for believing that the offender has
failed without reasonable excuse to comply with any of the conditions attached
to a youth conditional caution, the constable may arrest the offender without
warrant.

21.5

Sections 106 (2)  to  (10)  and 107 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and
Courts Act 2022 apply in relation to a person arrested under subsection (4)
above.

22

In section 66G (code of practice), in subsection (2)—

22.a

in paragraph (j), for the words from “conferred by” to the end substitute
“under section 66E(4)” ;

22.b

in paragraph (k), for “section 24A(2) of that Act” substitute  “section 106
(2)  and  (3)  of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022” .

##### Police Reform Act 

23

The Police Reform Act 2002 is amended as follows.

24

In section 43 (railways safety accreditation scheme)—

24.a

in subsection (6), omit “Subject to subsection (7)”;

24.b

omit subsection (7).

25

In Schedule 5 (powers exercisable by accredited persons), omit the following—

25.a

paragraph 1(2)(aa) and (2A);

25.b

paragraph 4 and the preceding italic heading;

25.c

paragraph 9A and the preceding italic heading.

26

Omit Schedule 5A (powers exercisable by accredited inspectors).

##### Licensing Act 

27

In section 147A of the Licensing Act 2003 (persistently selling alcohol to
children), in subsection (7), omit paragraph (c) and the preceding “or”.

##### Courts Act 

28

The Courts Act 2003 is amended as follows.

29

In section 85EA (prohibition of cross-examination in person: victims of
offences), in subsection (5), in paragraph (a) of the definition of “caution”,
for sub-paragraph (i) substitute—

29.i

a diversionary caution or community caution given under Part 6 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022,

29.ia

a caution given under section 22 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (conditional
cautions) in respect of an offence committed before the coming into force of
section 118 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022,

.

30

In Schedule 5 (collection of fines), in paragraph 3(1)(b), for sub-paragraph
(ii) substitute—

30.ii

section 112 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022, or

.

##### Criminal Justice Act 

31

In section 330 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (orders and rules), in
subsection (5)—

31.a

in paragraph (a), omit “section 25(5)”;

31.b

omit paragraph (aa).

##### Offender Management Act 

32

32.1

Section 1 of the Offender Management Act 2007 (meaning of “ the probation
purposes ”) is amended as follows.

32.2

In subsection (1)—

32.2.a

in paragraph (b)—

32.2.a.i

for “conditional cautions”, in the first place, substitute  “diversionary or
community cautions” ;

32.2.a.ii

for “conditional cautions”, in the second place, substitute  “them” ;

32.2.b

in paragraph (e), for “conditional cautions” substitute  “diversionary or
community cautions” .

32.3

In subsection (4), omit the definition of “conditional caution”.

32.4

In subsection (5), for “conditional cautions” substitute  “diversionary or
community cautions” .

##### Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 

33

The Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 is amended as follows.

34

In section 101 (community remedy document), in subsection (9), in the
definition of “out of court disposal process”, for “conditional caution”
substitute  “diversionary caution, community caution” .

35

35.1

Section 102 (out-of-court disposals) is amended as follows.

35.2

In subsection (2)—

35.2.a

after paragraph (b) insert—

35.2.a.ba

a person authorised by a prosecution authority under section 98 (7)  of the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 for purposes relating to
diversionary or community cautions;

;

35.2.b

in paragraph (c), omit “section 22 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003
(conditional cautions) or”.

35.3

In subsection (6)—

35.3.a

in the definition of “caution”, for the words from “includes” to “2003”
substitute  “means a diversionary or community caution given under Part 6 of
the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022” ;

35.3.b

for the definition of “investigating officer” and “relevant prosecutor”
substitute—

“ investigating officer ” has the meaning given by section 121 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022; “ relevant prosecutor ” has the meaning
given by section 66H of the Crime and Disorder Act 1998;

.

36

Paragraphs  34  and  35  do not affect the operation of sections 101 and 102
of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014 in relation to
conditional cautions given under Part 3 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 in
respect of offences committed before the day on which section 118(2) comes
into force.

##### Criminal Justice and Courts Act 

37

In the Criminal Justice and Courts Act 2015, omit sections 17 and 18
(restrictions on use of cautions).

##### Other consequential repeals

38

38.1

Omit the following (which make amendments to Part 3 of the Criminal Justice
Act 2003, which is repealed by section 118(2) above)—

38.1.a

paragraph 129 of Schedule 4 to the Commissioners for Revenue and Customs Act
2005;

38.1.b

sections 17 and 18 of the Police and Justice Act 2006;

38.1.c

paragraphs 60 to 62 of Schedule 26 to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act
2008;

38.1.d

sections 133 and 134 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders
Act 2012;

38.1.e

section 103(1) of the Anti-social Behaviour, Crime and Policing Act 2014;

38.1.f

sections 60, 64(8) and 66(10) of, and paragraph 16(2) of Schedule 12 to, the
Policing and Crime Act 2017;

38.1.g

paragraphs 14 to 16 and 23 of Schedule 4 to this Act.

38.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not affect the continuing operation of the repealed
provisions in relation to cautions given under Part 3 of the Criminal Justice
Act 2003 in respect of offences committed before the day on which section
118(2) comes into force.

39

39.1

Omit the following (which make amendments to Chapter 1 of Part 1 of the
Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001, which is repealed by section 118(3)
above)—

39.1.a

section 15 of the Domestic Violence, Crime and Victims Act 2004;

39.1.b

section 132 of, and Schedule 23 to, the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment
of Offenders Act 2012.

39.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not affect the continuing operation of the repealed
provisions in relation to penalty notices given under Chapter 1 of Part 1 of
the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 in respect of offences committed
before the day on which section 118(3) comes into force.

Minimum sentences for particular offences: consequential amendments

Section 124

##### Mental Health Act 

1

In section 37 of the Mental Health Act 1983 (power to order hospital admission
or guardianship), in subsection (1B)(d), for “312(2), 313(2), 314(2) or
315(2)” substitute  “312(2A), 313(2A), 314(2A) or 315(2A)” .

##### Armed Forces Act 

2

The Armed Forces Act 2006 is amended as follows.

3

In section 225(2) (third drug trafficking offence)—

3.a

for “section 313(2)” substitute  “section 313(2A)” ,

3.b

for “particular circumstances” substitute  “exceptional circumstances” , and

3.c

for paragraph (b) substitute—

3.c.b

justify not doing so.

4

In section 226(2) (third domestic burglary)—

4.a

for “section 314(2)” substitute  “section 314(2A)” ,

4.b

for “particular circumstances” substitute  “exceptional circumstances” , and

4.c

for paragraph (b) substitute—

4.c.b

justify not doing so.

5

5.1

Section 227A (offences of threatening with a weapon in public or on school
premises) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (1A)—

5.2.a

for “particular circumstances” substitute  “exceptional circumstances” , and

5.2.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

5.2.b.b

justify not doing so.

5.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  has effect only if this Schedule comes into force before
the coming into force of paragraph 16(a) of Schedule 26 to the Sentencing Act
2020 (which omits subsection (1A) of section 227A of the Armed Forces Act
2006).

5.4

In subsection (2)—

5.4.a

for “particular circumstances” substitute  “exceptional circumstances” , and

5.4.b

for paragraph (b) substitute—

5.4.b.b

justify not doing so.

6

In section 237 (duty to have regard to purposes of sentencing etc), in
subsection (3)—

6.a

in paragraph (bc), for “section 313(2)” substitute  “section 313(2A)” , and

6.b

in paragraph (bd), for “section 314(2)” substitute  “section 314(2A)” .

7

7.1

Section 239 (reduction in sentences for guilty pleas) is amended as follows.

7.2

In subsection (4), for “section 313(2) or 314(2)” substitute  “section 313(2A)
or 314(2A)” .

7.3

In subsection (5), for “section 313(2) or 314(2)”, in both places it occurs,
substitute  “section 313(2A) or 314(2A)” .

8

In section 260 (discretionary custodial sentences: general restrictions), in
subsection (1)—

8.a

in paragraph (e), for “section 313(2)” substitute  “section 313(2A)” , and

8.b

in paragraph (f), for “section 314(2)” substitute  “section 314(2A)” .

9

In section 273 (review of unduly lenient sentence by Court Martial Appeal
Court), in subsection (6)(b)—

9.a

in sub-paragraph (iv), for “section 313(2)” substitute  “section 313(2A)” ,
and

9.b

in sub-paragraph (v), for “section 314(2)” substitute  “section 314(2A)” .

Removal of attendance centre requirements for adults: related amendments

Section 152

##### Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 (c. 6)

1

The Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 60 (attendance centre orders) is amended as follows (but see sub-
paragraph (4)).

2.2

In subsection (1)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (b), for “21” substitute  “18” ;

2.2.b

omit paragraph (c) and the word “or” before it.

2.3

In subsection (4)(b), for the words from “16 or over” to the end, substitute
“16 or 17” .

2.4

Sub-paragraphs (1) to (3) have no effect if paragraph 102 of Schedule 32 to
the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (which confines the effect of section 60 to
persons aged under 16) is in force when this paragraph comes into force.

3

In Schedule 5 (further provision about attendance centre orders), in paragraph
7(1), omit “or (c)”.

##### Criminal Justice Act 2003 (c. 44)

4

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 (the “ 2003 Act ”) is amended as follows.

5

5.1

Section 221 (provision of attendance centres) is amended as follows.

5.2

In subsection (2), omit “aged under 25”.

5.3

After subsection (3) insert—

5.3.4

In this section “ relevant order ” means—

5.3.4.a

an order under section 177(1) (community order) or 189(1) (suspended sentence
order);

5.3.4.b

a relevant order within the meaning given by section 397 of the Sentencing
Code, made in respect of an offence of which the offender was convicted before
the day on which paragraph  5  of Schedule 13 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 came into force.

6

6.1

In section 300(2) (power to impose attendance centre requirement on fine
defaulter)—

6.1.a

if the relevant amendment is not in force when this paragraph comes into
force, in paragraph (c) for “under 25” substitute  “under 18” ;

6.1.b

if the relevant amendment is in force when this paragraph comes into force,
omit paragraph (c) and the word “or” before it.

6.2

In sub-paragraph (1) the “ relevant amendment ” means paragraph 2(3)(a)(i) of
Schedule 26 to the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 (which confines
the application of section 300(2) of the 2003 Act to those over 18).

7

If paragraph 102 of Schedule 32 is not in force when this paragraph comes into
force, in sub-paragraph (2)(b) of that paragraph 102 (amendment of section
61(1)(b) of the Powers of Criminal Courts (Sentencing) Act 2000), for “21”
substitute  “18” .

##### Sentencing Code

8

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

9

9.1

Schedule 11 (transfer of community orders to Scotland or Northern Ireland) is
amended as follows.

9.2

In paragraph 12(2)—

9.2.a

at the end of paragraph (g) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 207(3))” ;

9.2.b

at the end of paragraph (h) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 207(4))” .

9.3

In paragraph 25(3), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end of that
paragraph).

10

10.1

Schedule 17 (transfer of suspended sentence orders to Scotland or Northern
Ireland) is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 9(2)—

10.2.a

at the end of paragraph (g) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 291(3))” ;

10.2.b

at the end of paragraph (h) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 291(4))” .

10.3

In paragraph 32—

10.3.a

in sub-paragraph (2), omit paragraph (b) (but not the “or” at the end of that
paragraph);

10.3.b

in sub-paragraph (5)—

10.3.b.i

at the end of paragraph (g) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 291(3))” ;

10.3.b.ii

at the end of paragraph (h) insert  “, where such a requirement is available
(see section 291(4))” .

Community and suspended sentence orders: special procedures relating to review
and breach

Section 153

##### Amendments to the Sentencing Code

###### Introductory

1

The Sentencing Code is amended as specified in this Part of this Schedule.

###### Orders that qualify for special procedures

2

After section 395 insert—

########## Community and suspended sentence orders qualifying for special procedures

2.395A

2.395A.1

A community order or suspended sentence order qualifies for special procedures
for the purposes of a relevant provision if the order—

2.395A.1.a

is of a description specified in regulations for the purposes of that
provision, and

2.395A.1.b

is made within a period, or after a time, so specified.

2.395A.2

In subsection (1) “ relevant provision ” means—

2.395A.2.a

section 217A;

2.395A.2.b

section 293A;

2.395A.2.c

paragraphs 10(5)(ba) and 11(2)(ba) of Schedule 10;

2.395A.2.d

paragraph 13(1)(da) of Schedule 16.

2.395A.3

A description specified under subsection (1)(a) may, among other things, be
framed by reference to—

2.395A.3.a

the courts by which the orders are made (for example, courts sitting in
particular places or areas);

2.395A.3.b

the persons who are subject to the orders (for example, persons of a
particular sex);

2.395A.3.c

the offences to which the orders relate.

2.395A.4

Where regulations under subsection (1)(a) specify a description of community
or suspended sentence order for the first time, they must under subsection
(1)(b) specify, in relation to that description of order, a period of 18
months beginning with the day on which the regulations come into force.

2.395A.5

Regulations under this section are to be made by the Secretary of State.

2.395A.6

Regulations under this section are subject to—

2.395A.6.a

the negative resolution procedure, where under subsection (1)(b) the
regulations specify a period, and

2.395A.6.b

the affirmative resolution procedure, in any other case.

###### Review of community orders

3

3.1

Section 211 (power of Crown Court to direct magistrates’ court supervision) is
amended as follows.

3.2

The existing provision becomes subsection (1).

3.3

After that subsection insert—

3.3.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to a community order that qualifies for special
procedures for the purposes of section 217A.

4

In section 217 (power to provide for court review of community orders), after
subsection (2) insert—

4.2A

Regulations under this section may not make provision in respect of community
orders which for the purposes of section 217A qualify for special procedures.

5

After section 217 insert—

########## Review of community order qualifying for special procedures

5.217A

5.217A.1

A community order that—

5.217A.1.a

imposes one or more community order requirements, and

5.217A.1.b

qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of this section,

may make provision for the order to be reviewed periodically (“provision for
review”).

5.217A.2

Where a community order contains provision for review under this section, it
must—

5.217A.2.a

specify the intervals at which the order is to be reviewed,

5.217A.2.b

provide for each review to be made, subject to section 217B, at a hearing held
for the purpose by the responsible court (a “review hearing”),

5.217A.2.c

require the offender to attend each review hearing, and

5.217A.2.d

provide for a report by an officer of a provider of probation services on the
offender’s progress in complying with the community order requirements of the
order (a “progress report”) to be made to the responsible court before each
review.

5.217A.3

In this section “ the responsible court ”, in relation to a community order,
means the court by which the order is made.

5.217A.4

For more about community orders that qualify for special procedures, see
section 395A.

########## Powers on review

5.217B

5.217B.1

This section applies where a review hearing is held on a review of a community
order by virtue of section 217A.

5.217B.2

The court may, after considering the progress report, amend—

5.217B.2.a

the community order requirements of the order, or

5.217B.2.b

any provision of the order which relates to those requirements.

5.217B.3

But the court—

5.217B.3.a

may not amend the community order requirements of the order so as to impose a
requirement of a different kind unless the offender expresses willingness to
comply with that requirement,

5.217B.3.b

may not amend—

5.217B.3.b.i

a mental health treatment requirement,

5.217B.3.b.ii

a drug rehabilitation requirement, or

5.217B.3.b.iii

an alcohol treatment requirement,

unless the offender expresses willingness to comply with the requirement as
amended, and

5.217B.3.c

except with the consent of the offender, may not amend the order while an
appeal against the order is pending.

5.217B.4

For the purposes of subsection (3)(a)—

5.217B.4.a

a community order requirement of a kind within any entry in the table in
section 201 is of the same kind as any other community requirement within that
entry, and

5.217B.4.b

an electronic compliance monitoring requirement is a requirement of the same
kind as any requirement within that table to which it relates.

5.217B.5

If the court is of the opinion that the offender has without reasonable excuse
breached a community order requirement of the order, the court may adjourn the
hearing so that the court can deal with the case forthwith under paragraph 10
or 11 of Schedule 10 (powers of court to deal with offender on breach of
requirement).

5.217B.6

For some powers available where the court is of the opinion referred to in
subsection (5) but does not deal with the case forthwith, see paragraph 9A of
Schedule 10.

5.217B.7

In this section—

“review hearing”, and “progress report”,

have the same meanings as in section 217A.

########## Alteration of review arrangements

5.217C

5.217C.1

Subsections (2) and (3) apply where a court—

5.217C.1.a

considers the progress report relating to a review under section 217A (the
“current review”), and

5.217C.1.b

forms the opinion that the offender’s progress in complying with the community
order requirements of the community order is satisfactory.

5.217C.2

If the court forms that opinion before a review hearing is held at the current
review—

5.217C.2.a

it may order that no review hearing is to be held at the current review, and

5.217C.2.b

it may amend the community order so as to provide for each subsequent review
to be held without a review hearing.

5.217C.3

If a review hearing is held at the current review, the court may at the
hearing amend the community order so as to provide for each subsequent review
to be held without a review hearing.

5.217C.4

If at a review held without a review hearing the court—

5.217C.4.a

considers the progress report, and

5.217C.4.b

forms the opinion that the offender’s progress under the order is no longer
satisfactory,

it may require the offender to attend a hearing of the court at a specified
time and place.

5.217C.5

At a review hearing the court may amend the community order so as to vary the
intervals specified under section 217A(2)(a).

5.217C.6

The functions of a court under this section that are exercisable in relation
to a review without a hearing are to be exercised—

5.217C.6.a

where the court is the Crown Court, by a judge of the court, and

5.217C.6.b

where the court is a magistrates’ court, by a justice of the peace.

5.217C.7

In this section—

“review hearing”, and “progress report”,

have the same meanings as in section 217A.

###### Review of suspended sentence orders

6

In section 293 (review of suspended sentence orders), at the end insert—

6.7

Nothing in this section applies in relation to suspended sentence orders which
qualify for special procedures for the purposes of section 293A.

7

After section 293 insert—

########## Review of suspended sentence order qualifying for special procedures

7.293A

7.293A.1

A suspended sentence order that—

7.293A.1.a

imposes one or more community requirements, and

7.293A.1.b

qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of this section,

may make provision for the order to be reviewed periodically (“provision for
review”).

7.293A.2

Where a suspended sentence order contains provision for review under this
section, it must—

7.293A.2.a

specify the intervals at which the order is to be reviewed,

7.293A.2.b

provide for each review to be made, subject to section 294, at a hearing held
for the purpose by the responsible court (a “review hearing”),

7.293A.2.c

require the offender to attend each review hearing, and

7.293A.2.d

provide for a report by an officer of a provider of probation services on the
offender’s progress in complying with the community requirements of the order
(a “progress report”) to be made to the responsible court before each review.

7.293A.3

In this section “ the responsible court ”, in relation to a suspended sentence
order, means the court by which the order is made.

7.293A.4

For more about suspended sentence orders that qualify for special procedures,
see section 395A.

8

8.1

Section 294 (review hearings) is amended as follows.

8.2

In subsection (1), after “293” insert  “or 293A” .

8.3

In subsection (5), after “the case” insert  “forthwith” .

8.4

After subsection (5) insert—

8.4.5A

For some powers available where the court is of the opinion referred to in
subsection (5) but does not deal with the case forthwith, see paragraph 9A of
Schedule 16.

8.5

In subsection (6), after “293(2)” insert  “(or, as the case may be, section
293A(2))” .

9

9.1

Section 295 (alteration of review arrangements) is amended as follows.

9.2

In subsection (1), after “a review” insert  “under section 293 or 293A” .

9.3

In subsection (5), after “293(2)(a)” insert  “or 293A(2)(a)” .

9.4

In subsection (7), after “293(2)” insert  “(or, as the case may be, section
293A(2))” .

10

10.1

Section 297 (power to direct magistrates’ court supervision) is amended as
follows.

10.2

The existing provision becomes subsection (1).

10.3

After that subsection insert—

10.3.2

Subsection (1) does not apply to a suspended sentence order that qualifies for
special procedures for the purposes of section 293A.

###### Review of drug rehabilitation requirements

11

In Schedule 9 (community orders and suspended sentence orders: community
requirements), in paragraph 21 (review of drug rehabilitation requirements),
at the end insert—

11.7

Nothing in this paragraph or paragraph 22 applies in relation to—

11.7.a

a community order that qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of
section 217A, or

11.7.b

a suspended sentence order that qualifies for special procedures for the
purposes of section 293A.

###### Breach of community order: power to commit to custody

12

12.1

Schedule 10 (breach etc of community order) is amended as follows.

12.2

In paragraph 1 (interpretation), in the definition of “appropriate court” in
sub-paragraph (1)—

12.2.a

after paragraph (a) insert—

12.2.a.aa

if the community order qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of
section 217A, the court that made the order;

;

12.2.b

in paragraph (b), after the second “order” insert  “and does not fall within
paragraph (aa)” .

12.3

In paragraph 8 (issue of summons or warrant by justice of the peace), in sub-
paragraph (3)—

12.3.a

in paragraph (a), omit the final “or”;

12.3.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

12.3.b.aa

in the case of a community order that qualifies for special procedures for the
purposes of section 217A, before the court that made the order, or

.

12.4

After paragraph 9 insert—

############ Issue of summons or warrant after review hearing

12.4.9A

12.4.9A.1

This paragraph applies where—

12.4.9A.1.a

a community order is in force,

12.4.9A.1.b

on a review hearing under section 217B a magistrates’ court or the Crown Court
(“the court”) is of the opinion that the offender has without reasonable
excuse breached a community order requirement of the order, and

12.4.9A.1.c

the court does not deal with the case forthwith by virtue of section 217B(5).

12.4.9A.2

The court may at any time—

12.4.9A.2.a

issue a summons requiring the offender to appear at the place and time
specified in it, or

12.4.9A.2.b

issue a warrant for the offender’s arrest.

12.4.9A.3

A summons or warrant issued under this paragraph must direct the offender to
appear or be brought before the court which issued it.

12.4.9A.4

Where—

12.4.9A.4.a

a summons is issued under this paragraph, and

12.4.9A.4.b

the offender does not appear in answer to the summons,

the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender.

12.5

In paragraph 10—

12.5.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after “paragraph 8” insert  “or 9A or by virtue of
section 217B(5)” ;

12.5.b

in sub-paragraph (5), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.5.b.ba

if the community order qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of
this paragraph, by ordering the offender to be committed to prison for such
period not exceeding 28 days as the court considers appropriate (but see also
paragraph 13A);

.

12.6

In paragraph 11—

12.6.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a)—

12.6.a.i

after “paragraph 9” insert  “or 9A” ;

12.6.a.ii

after “10(3)” insert  “or section 217B(5)” ;

12.6.b

in sub-paragraph (2), after paragraph (b) insert—

12.6.b.ba

if the community order qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of
this paragraph, by ordering the offender to be committed to prison for such
period not exceeding 28 days as the court considers appropriate (but see also
paragraph 13A);

.

12.7

After paragraph 13 insert—

############ Power under paragraphs 10 and 11 to commit to prison: further provision

12.7.13A

12.7.13A.1

In the case of a person under the age of 21—

12.7.13A.1.a

an order under paragraph 10(5)(ba) or 11(2)(ba) must be for committal to a
young offender institution instead of to prison, but

12.7.13A.1.b

the Secretary of State may from time to time direct that a person committed to
a young offender institution by such an order is to be detained in a prison or
remand centre instead.

12.7.13A.2

A person committed to prison or a young offender institution by an order under
paragraph 10(5)(ba) or 11(2)(ba) is to be regarded as being in legal custody.

12.7.13A.3

No more than three orders under paragraph 10(5)(ba) or 11(2)(ba) may be made
in relation to the same community order.

12.8

In paragraph 14 (revocation etc of community order subject to magistrates’
court supervision), in sub-paragraph (2)—

12.8.a

in paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

12.8.b

after paragraph (a) insert—

12.8.b.aa

if the community order qualifies for special procedures for the purposes of
section 217A, the court that made the order, and

.

###### Breach of suspended sentence order: power to commit to custody

13

13.1

Schedule 16 (breach etc of suspended sentence order) is amended as follows.

13.2

In paragraph 4—

13.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), after “293(1)” insert  “or 293A(1)” ;

13.2.b

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), after “293(4)” insert  “or 293A(3)” .

13.3

After paragraph 9 insert—

############ Issue of summons or warrant after review hearing in special procedure cases

13.3.9A

13.3.9A.1

This paragraph applies where—

13.3.9A.1.a

a suspended sentence order is subject to review in accordance with section
293A(1),

13.3.9A.1.b

on a review hearing under section 294(5) a magistrates’ court or the Crown
Court (“the court”) is of the opinion that the offender has without reasonable
excuse breached a community requirement of the order, and

13.3.9A.1.c

the court does not deal with the case forthwith under section 294(5).

13.3.9A.2

The court may at any time—

13.3.9A.2.a

issue a summons requiring the offender to appear at the place and time
specified in it, or

13.3.9A.2.b

issue a warrant for the offender’s arrest.

13.3.9A.3

A summons or warrant issued under this paragraph must direct the offender to
appear or be brought before the court which issued it.

13.3.9A.4

Where—

13.3.9A.4.a

a summons is issued under this paragraph, and

13.3.9A.4.b

the offender does not appear in answer to the summons,

the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of the offender.

13.4

In paragraph 10, in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i), after “8” insert  “or 9A” .

13.5

In paragraph 12, in sub-paragraph (2)(a)(i), after “9” insert  “or 9A” .

13.6

In paragraph 13, in sub-paragraph (1), after paragraph (d) insert—

13.6.da

in a case where the suspended sentence order qualifies for special procedures
for the purposes of this paragraph, the court is dealing with the case by
virtue of paragraph 10 or 12(2) and the offender is aged 18 or over, the court
may order the offender to be committed to prison for such period not exceeding
28 days as the court considers appropriate (but see also paragraph 13A);

.

13.7

In paragraph 14 (duty to make activation order where not unjust), in sub-
paragraph (2)—

13.7.a

in paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

13.7.b

after paragraph (b) insert

, and

13.7.b.c

in a case where the suspended sentence order qualifies for special procedures
for the purposes of paragraph 13(1)(da), the court is dealing with the case by
virtue of paragraph 10 or 12(2) and the offender is aged 18 or over, the
possibility of making an order under paragraph 13(1)(da).

13.8

After paragraph 16 insert—

############ Power under paragraph 13(1)(da) to commit to prison: further provision

13.8.16A

13.8.16A.1

In the case of an offender under the age of 21—

13.8.16A.1.a

an order under paragraph 13(1)(da) must be for committal to a young offender
institution instead of to prison, but

13.8.16A.1.b

the Secretary of State may from time to time direct that a person committed to
a young offender institution by such an order is to be detained in a prison or
remand centre instead.

13.8.16A.2

A person committed to prison or a young offender institution by an order under
paragraph 13(1)(da) is to be regarded as being in legal custody.

13.8.16A.3

No more than three orders under paragraph 13(1)(da) may be made in relation to
the same suspended sentence order.

##### Prospective amendments

###### Prospective amendments relating to abolition of detention in a young offender institution

14

14.1

Schedule 22 of the Sentencing Act 2020 (prospective amendments) is amended as
follows.

14.2

In paragraph 21 (powers to imprison for breach of community order)—

14.2.a

in sub-paragraph (2)(a), in the inserted paragraph (d), after sub-paragraph
(i) insert—

14.2.a.ia

the order does not qualify for special procedures for the purposes of
paragraph (ba);

;

14.2.b

in sub-paragraph (3)(a), in the inserted paragraph (d), before sub-paragraph
(i) insert—

14.2.b.ai

the community order does not qualify for special procedures for the purposes
of paragraph (ba),

.

14.3

After paragraph 75 insert—

14.3.75A

In paragraph 13A of Schedule 10 (detention following breach of community
order)—

14.3.75A.a

omit sub-paragraph (1);

14.3.75A.b

in sub-paragraph (2), omit “or a young offender institution”.

14.4

After paragraph 78 insert—

14.4.78A

In paragraph 16A of Schedule 16 (detention following breach of suspended
sentence order)—

14.4.78A.a

omit sub-paragraph (1);

14.4.78A.b

in sub-paragraph (2), omit “or a young offender institution”.

Community and suspended sentence orders: drug testing requirement

Section 154

1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

2

In section 201 (community order: community order requirements table), after
the entry in the table relating to the drug rehabilitation requirement,
insert—

drug testing requirement Part 10A  section 207(3A)

.

3

In section 207 (community order: availability of particular requirements),
after subsection (3) insert—

######## Drug testing requirement

3.3A

A drug testing requirement is not an available requirement if the offender was
convicted of the offence before the day on which section 154 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force.

4

In section 287 (suspended sentence order: community requirements table), after
the entry in the table relating to the drug rehabilitation requirement,
insert—

drug testing requirement Part 10A section 291(3A)

.

5

In section 291 (suspended sentence order: availability of particular
requirements), after subsection (3) insert—

######## Drug testing requirement

5.3A

A drug testing requirement is not an available requirement if the offender was
convicted of the offence before the day on which section 154 of the Police,
Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force.

6

In Schedule 9 (community orders and suspended sentence orders: requirements),
after Part 10 insert—

######## Drug testing requirement

######### Requirement

6.22A

6.22A.1

In this Code, “ drug testing requirement ”, in relation to a relevant order,
means a requirement that during a period specified in the order, the offender
must, for the purpose of ascertaining whether there is any drug or
psychoactive substance in the offender’s body during that period, provide
samples in accordance with directions given by the responsible officer.

6.22A.2

The order—

6.22A.2.a

must provide that if the offender provides samples to a person other than the
responsible officer, the results of the tests carried out on the samples are
to be communicated to the responsible officer;

6.22A.2.b

may make provision about the provision of samples by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1).

6.22A.3

The power of the responsible officer to give directions by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1) about the provision of samples—

6.22A.3.a

is a power to give directions as to—

6.22A.3.a.i

the type of samples to be provided, and

6.22A.3.a.ii

the times at which, or circumstances in which, they are to be provided,

6.22A.3.b

is subject to any provision made by the order, and

6.22A.3.c

is to be exercised in accordance with guidance issued by the Secretary of
State.

6.22A.4

The Secretary of State may revise any guidance issued under sub-paragraph
(3)(c).

6.22A.5

In this paragraph and paragraph 22B—

“ drug ” means a controlled drug as defined by section 2 of the Misuse of
Drugs Act 1971; “ psychoactive substance ” has the meaning given by section
2(1) of the Psychoactive Substances Act 2016.

######### Restrictions on imposing drug testing requirement

6.22B

6.22B.1

A court may not impose a drug testing requirement unless the following
conditions are met—

6.22B.1.a

the misuse condition, and

6.22B.1.b

the availability of arrangements condition.

6.22B.2

The misuse condition is that the court is satisfied that the offender’s misuse
of a drug or psychoactive substance—

6.22B.2.a

caused or contributed to the offence to which the order relates or an
associated offence, or

6.22B.2.b

is likely to cause or contribute to the commission of further offences by the
offender.

6.22B.3

The availability of arrangements condition is that the court has been notified
by the Secretary of State that arrangements for implementing drug testing
requirements are available in the offender’s home local justice area (and the
notice has not been withdrawn).

Detention and training orders: time to count as served

Section 160

##### Detention and training orders made under Sentencing Code

###### Criminal Justice Act 2003 (c. 44)

1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2

2.1

Section 240ZA (time remanded in custody to count as time served: terms of
imprisonment and detention) is amended as follows.

2.2

In the heading, for “and detention” substitute  “or detention and detention
and training orders” .

2.3

After subsection (1) insert—

2.3.1A

This section also applies where—

2.3.1A.a

a court, on or after the day on which Schedule 16 to the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, makes a detention and training
order in respect of an offender for an offence, and

2.3.1A.b

the offender concerned has been remanded in custody in connection with the
offence or a related offence.

2.3.1B

In this section any reference to a “ sentence ”, in relation to an offender,
is to—

2.3.1B.a

a term of imprisonment being served by the offender as mentioned in subsection
(1)(a), or

2.3.1B.b

a detention and training order made in respect of the offender as mentioned in
subsection (1A)(a).

2.4

In subsection (2), for “that purpose” substitute  “the purposes of subsection
(1)(b) or (1A)(b)” .

2.5

For subsection (9) substitute—

2.5.8A

Subsection (9) applies in relation to an offender who is sentenced to two or
more consecutive sentences or sentences which are wholly or partly concurrent
if—

2.5.8A.a

the sentences were imposed on the same occasion, or

2.5.8A.b

where they were imposed on different occasions, the offender has not been
released during the period beginning with the first and ending with the last
of those occasions.

2.5.9

For the purposes of subsections (3) and (5), the sentences are to be treated
as a single sentence.

3

3.1

Section 240A (time remanded on bail to count towards time served: terms of
imprisonment and detention) is amended as follows.

3.2

In the heading, for “and detention” substitute  “or detention and detention
and training orders” .

3.3

After subsection (3ZA) insert—

3.3.3ZAA

Subsection (3ZB) also applies where—

3.3.3ZAA.a

a court, on or after the day on which Schedule 16 to the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, makes a detention and training
order in respect of an offender for an offence, and

3.3.3ZAA.b

the court has made a declaration under section 325 of the Sentencing Code
specifying a credit period in relation to the order.

3.3.3ZAB

In this section any reference to a “ sentence ”, in relation to an offender,
is to—

3.3.3ZAB.a

a term of imprisonment being served by the offender as mentioned in subsection
(3ZA)(a), or

3.3.3ZAB.b

a detention and training order made in respect of the offender as mentioned in
subsection (3ZAA)(a).

3.4

In subsection (9)(b), omit the words from “and, in paragraph (b)” to the end.

4

In section 242 (interpretation), at the end insert—

4.3

In sections 240ZA and 240A, “ detention and training order ” has the meaning
given by section 233 of the Sentencing Code.

###### Sentencing Act 

5

The Sentencing Act 2020 is amended as follows.

6

Omit sections 239 and 240 (effect on term of detention and training order of
period on remand etc).

7

In section 244 (offender subject concurrently to detention and training order
and sentence of detention in a young offender institution), in subsection
(2)(c), at the beginning insert  “with the exception of sections 240ZA and
240A,” .

8

In section 245 (offender subject concurrently to detention and training order
and other sentence of detention), in subsection (2)(c), at the beginning
insert  “with the exception of sections 240ZA and 240A,” .

9

In section 325 (time on bail under certain conditions: declaration by court),
in subsection (5)—

9.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b);

9.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, or

9.b.d

makes a detention and training order.

10

In section 327 (period in custody awaiting extradition: declaration by court),
in subsection (2)—

10.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (b);

10.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, or

10.b.d

a detention and training order.

11

In Schedule 27 (transitional provision), omit paragraph 14 (and the italic
heading above it).

###### Other enactments

12

In Schedule 2 to the Criminal Appeal Act 1968 (procedural and other provisions
applicable on order for retrial), in paragraph 2(4), for “and detention”
substitute  “or detention and detention and training orders” .

13

In Schedule 7 to the International Criminal Court Act 2001 (domestic
provisions not applicable to ICC prisoners), in paragraph 2(1)(d), for “and
detention” substitute  “or detention and detention and training orders” .

##### Detention and training orders made under Armed Forces Act 2006

14

The Armed Forces Act 2006 is amended as follows.

15

In section 213 (application of provisions relating to civilian detention and
training orders)—

15.a

in subsection (2)(a), for “sections 237 to 240” substitute  “sections 237 and
238” ;

15.b

omit subsection (3).

16

After section 213 insert—

######### Period in service custody: effect on term of detention and training order

16.213A

16.213A.1

Subsection (2) applies where—

16.213A.1.a

the Court Martial or the Service Civilian Court proposes to make an order
under section 211 in respect of an offence, and

16.213A.1.b

the offender has been kept in service custody in connection with the offence
or any other offence the charge for which was founded on the same facts or
evidence.

16.213A.2

In determining the term of the order under section 211, the court must take
account of the period for which the offender was kept in service custody.

16.213A.3

If the court proposes to make two or more orders under section 211 in respect
of two or more offences—

16.213A.3.a

subsection (2) does not apply, but

16.213A.3.b

in determining the total term of those orders, the court must take account of
the total period for which the offender has been kept in service custody in
connection with—

16.213A.3.b.i

any of those offences, or

16.213A.3.b.ii

any other offence the charge for which was founded on the same facts or
evidence.

16.213A.4

A period of service custody may be taken account of under this section only
once.

######### Period of custody awaiting extradition: effect on term of detention and training order

16.213B

16.213B.1

This section applies where—

16.213B.1.a

the Court Martial or the Service Civilian Court proposes to make an order
under section 211 in respect of an offence,

16.213B.1.b

the offender was tried for the offence, or is to be sentenced—

16.213B.1.b.i

after having been extradited to the United Kingdom, and

16.213B.1.b.ii

without having first been restored or had an opportunity of leaving the United
Kingdom, and

16.213B.1.c

the offender was kept in custody for any period while awaiting extradition to
the United Kingdom.

16.213B.2

The court must—

16.213B.2.a

specify in open court the number of days for which the offender was kept in
custody while awaiting extradition, and

16.213B.2.b

take account of those days in determining the term of the order.

Youth rehabilitation orders

Section 161

##### Electronic monitoring: general requirements

1

In Part 17 of Schedule 6 to the Sentencing Code (electronic monitoring
requirement) after paragraph 43 insert—

######### Electronic monitoring: general

1.43A

Where a youth rehabilitation order made on or after the day on which paragraph
1  of Schedule 17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came
into force imposes an electronic monitoring requirement, the offender must (in
particular)—

1.43A.a

submit, as required from time to time by the responsible officer or the person
responsible for the monitoring, to—

1.43A.a.i

being fitted with, or installation of, any necessary apparatus, and

1.43A.a.ii

inspection or repair of any apparatus fitted or installed for the purposes of
the monitoring,

1.43A.b

not interfere with, or with the working of, any apparatus fitted or installed
for the purposes of the monitoring, and

1.43A.c

take any steps required by the responsible officer, or the person responsible
for the monitoring, for the purpose of keeping in working order any apparatus
fitted or installed for the purposes of the monitoring.

##### Electronic whereabouts monitoring requirements

###### Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 (c. 4)

2

2.1

Section 39 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 (youth default
orders) is amended as follows.

2.2

In subsection (4)(a), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

2.3

In subsection (6)—

2.3.a

in paragraph (a), after “198(3) to (5),” insert  “198A,” ,

2.3.b

in paragraph (b), for “, 7 and 17” substitute  “and 7” , and

2.3.c

after that paragraph insert—

2.3.c.ba

Part 17 of that Schedule (electronic monitoring requirements), so far as it
applies to electronic compliance monitoring requirements,

.

###### Sentencing Code

3

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

4

4.1

Section 174 (youth rehabilitation requirements table) is amended as follows.

4.2

The existing text becomes subsection (1).

4.3

In that subsection, in the table—

4.3.a

in the entry relating to electronic monitoring requirements, for “electronic
monitoring requirement” substitute  “electronic compliance monitoring
requirement” , and

4.3.b

after that entry insert—

electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement Part 17 section 185(5)

.

4.4

After that subsection insert—

4.4.2

See section 198A for provision about an electronic monitoring requirement
imposed by a youth rehabilitation order made in respect of an offence of which
the offender was convicted before the day on which paragraph  4  of Schedule
17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 first came into force
to any extent (ignoring, for these purposes, the coming into force of Part 2
of that Schedule for the purposes of making regulations).

5

In section 175(1)(c) (meaning of youth rehabilitation order with intensive
supervision and surveillance), for “electronic monitoring requirement”
substitute  “electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

6

6.1

Section 185 (youth rehabilitation order: availability of particular
requirements) is amended as follows.

6.2

In the italic heading before subsection (4), for “requirement” substitute
“requirements” .

6.3

In subsection (4), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

6.4

After subsection (4) insert—

6.4.5

An electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement is not available for a youth
rehabilitation order in respect of an offence unless the offender was
convicted of the offence on or after the day on which paragraph  6  of
Schedule 17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 first came
into force to any extent (ignoring, for these purposes, the coming into force
of Part 2 of that Schedule for the purposes of making regulations).

7

In section 190 (provision of copies of youth rehabilitation order and related
documents), in the table in subsection (3)—

7.a

in the entry relating to an electronic monitoring requirement, in the first
column, for “An electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “An electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” , and

7.b

after that entry insert—

An electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement Any person who by virtue of
paragraph 46 of Schedule 6 will be responsible for the electronic monitoring
Any person without whose consent the requirement could not be included in the
order.

8

After section 198 insert—

########## Electronic monitoring requirement previously imposed

8.198A

8.198A.1

This section applies where an electronic monitoring requirement was imposed by
a youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offence of which the offender
was convicted before the day on which paragraph  4  of Schedule 17 to the
Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 first came into force to any
extent (ignoring, for these purposes, the coming into force of Part 2 of that
Schedule for the purposes of making regulations).

8.198A.2

In this section “ electronic monitoring requirement ” has the meaning given by
paragraph 41 of Schedule 6 as it had effect before the day mentioned in
subsection (1).

8.198A.3

The electronic monitoring requirement is not affected by the renaming of
electronic monitoring requirements as electronic compliance monitoring
requirements by that Act.

8.198A.4

This Chapter applies in relation to the youth rehabilitation order as if any
reference to an electronic compliance monitoring requirement were to an
electronic monitoring requirement.

9

In section 395 (data from electronic monitoring: code of practice), after
“electronic monitoring of offenders under” insert

—

9.a

electronic compliance monitoring requirements and electronic whereabouts
monitoring requirements imposed by youth rehabilitation orders, and

9.b



.

10

In paragraph 19(3) of Schedule 6 (requirements where court imposes curfew
requirement), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” .

11

In paragraph 21 of Schedule 6 (requirements where court imposes exclusion
requirement), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” .

12

12.1

Part 17 of Schedule 6 (electronic monitoring) is amended as follows.

12.2

In the Part heading, omit “requirement”.

12.3

For the italic heading before paragraph 41 substitute  “Electronic compliance
monitoring requirement” .

12.4

In paragraph 41, for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.5

In the italic heading before paragraph 42, at the end insert  “: electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.6

In paragraph 42(1), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.7

In the italic heading before paragraph 43, at the end insert  “: electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.8

In paragraph 43(1), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.9

In the italic heading before paragraph 43A (inserted by Part 1 of this
Schedule), for “Electronic monitoring” substitute  “Electronic compliance
monitoring requirement” .

12.10

In paragraph 43A(1), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.11

For the italic heading before paragraph 44 substitute  “Restrictions on
imposing electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.12

In paragraph 44—

12.12.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(a), for “electronic monitoring requirement” substitute
“electronic compliance monitoring requirement” , and

12.12.b

in sub-paragraph (2), in the opening words, for “electronic monitoring
requirement” substitute  “electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

12.13

After paragraph 44 insert—

############ Electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement

12.13.45

In this Code “ electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement ”, in relation to
a youth rehabilitation order, means a requirement to submit to electronic
monitoring of the offender’s whereabouts (otherwise than for the purpose of
monitoring the offender’s compliance with any other requirement included in
the order) during a period specified in the order.

############ Person responsible for electronic monitoring: electronic whereabouts monitoring order

12.13.46

12.13.46.1

A youth rehabilitation order which imposes an electronic whereabouts
monitoring requirement must include provision for making a person responsible
for the monitoring.

12.13.46.2

The person who is made responsible for the monitoring must be of a description
specified in regulations made by the Secretary of State.

############ Electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement: general

12.13.47

Where a youth rehabilitation order imposes an electronic whereabouts
monitoring requirement, the offender must (in particular)—

12.13.47.a

submit, as required from time to time by the responsible officer or the person
responsible for the monitoring, to—

12.13.47.a.i

being fitted with, or installation of, any necessary apparatus, and

12.13.47.a.ii

inspection or repair of any apparatus fitted or installed for the purposes of
the monitoring,

12.13.47.b

not interfere with, or with the working of, any apparatus fitted or installed
for the purposes of the monitoring, and

12.13.47.c

take any steps required by the responsible officer, or the person responsible
for the monitoring, for the purpose of keeping in working order any apparatus
fitted or installed for the purposes of the monitoring.

############ Restrictions on imposing electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement

12.13.48

12.13.48.1

Where—

12.13.48.1.a

it is proposed to include an electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement in
a youth rehabilitation order, but

12.13.48.1.b

there is a person (other than the offender) without whose co-operation it will
not be practicable to secure the monitoring,

the requirement may not be included in the order without that person’s
consent.

12.13.48.2

A court may not include an electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement in a
youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offender unless—

12.13.48.2.a

the court has been notified by the Secretary of State that electronic
monitoring arrangements are available in the local justice area proposed to be
specified in the order (and the notice has not been withdrawn),

12.13.48.2.b

the court is satisfied that—

12.13.48.2.b.i

the offender can be fitted with any necessary apparatus under the arrangements
currently available, and

12.13.48.2.b.ii

any other necessary provision can be made under those arrangements, and

12.13.48.2.c

the court is satisfied that arrangements are generally operational throughout
England and Wales (even if not always operational everywhere there) under
which the offender’s whereabouts can be electronically monitored.

13

13.1

Schedule 7 (breach, revocation or amendment of youth rehabilitation order) is
amended as follows.

13.2

In paragraph 1(2)(b) (interpretation), for “electronic monitoring requirement”
substitute  “electronic compliance monitoring requirement” .

13.3

In paragraph 27(6) (persons to whom copy of order amending or revoking youth
rehabilitation order must be given)—

13.3.a

in the entry relating to an electronic monitoring requirement, in the first
column, for “An electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “An electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” , and

13.3.b

after that entry insert—

An electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement Any person who by virtue of
paragraph 46 of Schedule 6 will be responsible for the electronic monitoring
Any person without whose consent the requirement could not be included in the
order.

14

14.1

Schedule 8 (transfer of youth rehabilitation orders to Northern Ireland) is
amended as follows.

14.2

In paragraph 5(2) (meaning of “ locally based requirement ”)—

14.2.a

in paragraph (i), for “an electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “an
electronic compliance monitoring requirement” , and

14.2.b

after that paragraph insert—

14.2.b.j

an electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement.

14.3

In paragraph 7 (further provisions where offender resides or will reside in
Northern Ireland), in sub-paragraph (c)—

14.3.a

in paragraph (vi), for “electronic monitoring” substitute  “electronic
compliance monitoring” ;

14.3.b

at the end insert—

14.3.b.vii

paragraph 48(2) (availability of requirements for electronic whereabouts
monitoring;

.

14.4

In paragraph 11(4) (persons to whom copy of youth rehabilitation order or
amending order must be given)—

14.4.a

in the entry relating to an electronic monitoring requirement, in the first
column, for “An electronic monitoring requirement” substitute  “An electronic
compliance monitoring requirement” , and

14.4.b

after that entry insert—

An electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement Any person who by virtue of
paragraph 46 of Schedule 6 will be responsible for the electronic monitoring
Any person without whose consent the requirement could not be included in the
order.

##### Intensive supervision and surveillance

15

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

16

In section 175(1) (youth rehabilitation order with intensive supervision and
surveillance)—

16.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (b), and

16.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert

, and

16.b.d

in relation to an order made on or after the day on which paragraph  16  of
Schedule 17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 first came
into force to any extent, an electronic whereabouts monitoring requirement,
unless paragraph 48 of Schedule 6 prevents such a requirement from being
imposed.

17

17.1

Paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 (extended activity requirement) is amended as
follows.

17.2

In sub-paragraph (2), for “180” substitute  “the relevant number” .

17.3

After sub-paragraph (2) insert—

17.3.2A

In sub-paragraph (2) “ the relevant number ” means—

17.3.2A.a

in relation to a youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offence of which
the offender was convicted before the day on which paragraph  17  of Schedule
17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 first came into force
to any extent, 180 days, and

17.3.2A.b

in relation to a youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offence of which
the offender was convicted on or after that day, 365 days.

##### Curfew requirements and education requirements

###### Introductory

18

The Sentencing Act 2020 is amended as follows.

###### Curfew requirement

19

19.1

Paragraph 18 of Schedule 6 (curfew requirement) is amended as follows.

19.2

In sub-paragraph (4)—

19.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of paragraph (a),

19.2.b

in paragraph (b), for “16 hours” substitute  “the relevant number of hours” ,
and

19.2.c

at the end insert

, and

19.2.c.c

not more than 112 hours in any period of 7 days beginning with the day of the
week on which the requirement first takes effect.

19.3

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

19.3.4A

In sub-paragraph (4)(b), “the relevant number of hours”—

19.3.4A.a

in relation to a youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offence of which
the offender was convicted before the day on which paragraph  19  of Schedule
17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 came into force, means
16 hours, and

19.3.4A.b

in relation to a youth rehabilitation order in respect of an offence of which
the offender was convicted on or after that day, means 20 hours.

20

In paragraph 9(1) of Schedule 23 (powers to amend limits in youth
rehabilitation orders)—

20.a

in the words before paragraph (a), for “either” substitute  “any” , and

20.b

in paragraph (b), for “18(4)” substitute  “18(4) or (4A)” .

###### Education requirement

21

21.1

Paragraph 39 of Schedule 6 (education requirement) is amended as follows.

21.2

In sub-paragraph (4), for “by the time the offender ceases to be of compulsory
school age” substitute  “by the relevant time” .

21.3

After sub-paragraph (4) insert—

21.3.4A

In sub-paragraph (4) “ the relevant time ” in relation to a youth
rehabilitation order made in respect of—

21.3.4A.a

an offence of which the offender was convicted before the day on which
paragraph  21  of Schedule 17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act
2022 came into force, or

21.3.4A.b

an offender who, when the order was made, was not resident in England within
the meaning of Part 1 of the Education and Skills Act 2008 (duty to
participate in education or training after compulsory school age),

means the time the offender ceases to be of compulsory school age.

21.3.4B

In sub-paragraph (4) “ the relevant time ” in relation to a youth
rehabilitation order made in respect of—

21.3.4B.a

an offence of which the offender was convicted on or after the day on which
paragraph  21  of Schedule 17 to the Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts Act
2022 came into force, and

21.3.4B.b

an offender who, when the order was made, was resident in England within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Education and Skills Act 2008 (duty to participate in
education or training after compulsory school age),

means the time at which the offender ceases to be a person to whom that Part
applies or, if later, ceases to be of compulsory school age.

##### The responsible officer

###### Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 (c. 4)

22

22.1

The Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 is amended as follows.

22.2

In section 4(1) (meaning of “ the responsible officer ”), omit paragraph (a).

22.3

In section 5 (responsible officer and offender: duties in relation to the
other), omit subsection (2).

###### Sentencing Code

23

23.1

The Sentencing Code is amended as follows.

23.2

In section 191 (the responsible officer)—

23.2.a

in subsection (1), omit “(2),”;

23.2.b

omit subsection (2).

23.3

In section 192 (obligations of responsible officer), omit subsection (3).

Variation etc of order by court in another part of the United Kingdom

Section 183

##### Variation etc of order made in England and Wales or Scotland by court in Northern Ireland

###### Amendments of the Sexual Offences Act 

1

1.1

Section 136ZC of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (variation of sexual harm
prevention order by court in Northern Ireland) is amended as follows.

1.2

In the heading, after “Variation” insert  “, renewal or discharge” .

1.3

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), after “varying” insert
“, renewing or discharging” .

1.4

In subsection (4)—

1.4.a

for “subsections (5) and (6)” substitute  “subsections (4A) to (6B)” , and

1.4.b

after “varying” insert  “, renewing or discharging” .

1.5

After subsection (4) insert—

1.5.4A

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

1.5.4A.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Northern Ireland, and

1.5.4A.b

whether—

1.5.4A.b.i

in the case of a sexual harm prevention order made by a court in England and
Wales, the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, England and Wales,
or

1.5.4A.b.ii

in the case of a sexual harm prevention order made by a court in Scotland, the
defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, Scotland.

1.6

In subsection (5), in the words before paragraph (a)—

1.6.a

after “An order may be” insert  “renewed, or” , and

1.6.b

for “only” substitute  “, only” .

1.7

In subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a), after “An order as”
insert  “renewed or” .

1.8

After subsection (6) insert—

1.8.6A

The court must not discharge a sexual harm prevention order made by a court in
England and Wales before the end of 5 years beginning with the day on which
the order was made without the consent of the defendant and the Chief
Constable.

1.8.6B

The court must not discharge a sexual harm prevention order made by a court in
Scotland, or vary such an order so as to remove a prohibition or requirement,
unless the order or, as the case may be, the prohibition or requirement is no
longer necessary for the purpose of—

1.8.6B.a

protecting the public, or any particular members of the public, from sexual
harm from the defendant, or

1.8.6B.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

1.9

In subsection (9)—

1.9.a

in the definition of “the appropriate court”, for paragraphs (a) and (b)
substitute—

where the sexual harm prevention order was made— in England and Wales, by the
Crown Court, otherwise than on appeal from a magistrates’ court, or by the
Court of Appeal, or in Scotland, by the High Court of Justiciary otherwise
than on appeal, the Crown Court (in Northern Ireland); where the defendant is
aged 18 or over and the sexual harm prevention order was made— in England and
Wales, by a magistrates’ court or by the Crown Court on appeal from a
magistrates’ court, or in Scotland, by the High Court of Justiciary on appeal,
by the Court of Session, by the Sheriff Appeal Court or by a sheriff, any
court of summary jurisdiction in Northern Ireland;

, and

1.9.b

at the appropriate place insert—

“ the defendant ”, in relation to a sexual harm prevention order made under
section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 22) , means the person against whom the order has effect;

;

“ sexual harm prevention order ” includes a sexual harm prevention order made
under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act
2016.

2

2.1

Section 136ZD of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (variation of sexual risk order
by court in Northern Ireland) is amended as follows.

2.2

In the heading, after “Variation” insert  “, renewal or discharge” .

2.3

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), after “varying” insert
“, renewing or discharging” .

2.4

In subsection (3)—

2.4.a

for “subsections (4) and (5)” substitute  “subsections (3A) to (5B)” , and

2.4.b

after “varying” insert  “, renewing or discharging” .

2.5

After subsection (3) insert—

2.5.3A

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

2.5.3A.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Northern Ireland, and

2.5.3A.b

whether—

2.5.3A.b.i

in the case of a sexual risk order made by a court in England and Wales, the
defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, England and Wales, or

2.5.3A.b.ii

in the case of a sexual risk order made by a court in Scotland, the defendant
is likely to return to, or to visit, Scotland.

2.6

In subsection (4), in the words before paragraph (a)—

2.6.a

after “An order may be” insert  “renewed, or” , and

2.6.b

for “only” substitute  “, only” .

2.7

In subsection (5), in the words before paragraph (a), after “An order as”
insert  “renewed or” .

2.8

After subsection (5) insert—

2.8.5A

The court must not discharge a sexual risk order made by a court in England
and Wales before the end of 2 years beginning with the day on which the order
was made without the consent of the defendant and the Chief Constable.

2.8.5B

The court must not discharge a sexual risk order made by a court in Scotland,
or vary such an order so as to remove a prohibition or requirement, unless the
order or, as the case may be, the prohibition or requirement is no longer
necessary for the purpose of—

2.8.5B.a

protecting the public, or any particular members of the public, from harm from
the defendant, or

2.8.5B.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

2.9

In subsection (8), at the appropriate place insert—

“ the defendant ”, in relation to a sexual risk order made under section 27 of
the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) , means
the person against whom the order has effect;

;

“ sexual risk order ” includes a sexual risk order made under section 27 of
the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016.

###### Amendments of the Sentencing Code

3

3.1

Section 351 of the Sentencing Code (variation of sexual harm prevention order
by court in Northern Ireland) is amended as follows.

3.2

In the heading, after “Variation” insert  “, renewal or discharge” .

3.3

In subsection (2), in the words after paragraph (b), after “varying” insert
“, renewing or discharging” .

3.4

In subsection (5), in the words after paragraph (b)—

3.4.a

after “varying” insert  “, renewing or discharging” , and

3.4.b

for “subsections (6) and (7)” substitute  “subsections (5A) to (7A)” .

3.5

After subsection (5) insert—

3.5.5A

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

3.5.5A.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Northern Ireland, and

3.5.5A.b

whether the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, England and Wales.

3.6

In subsection (6), in the words before paragraph (a)—

3.6.a

after “An order may be” insert  “renewed, or” , and

3.6.b

for “only” substitute  “, only” .

3.7

In subsection (7), in the words before paragraph (a), after “An order as”
insert  “renewed or” .

3.8

After subsection (7) insert—

3.8.7A

The court must not discharge an order before the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which the order was made without the consent of the
defendant and the Chief Constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

##### Variation of order by court in Scotland

###### Amendments of the Sexual Offences Act 

4

After section 136ZD of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 insert—

########## Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual harm prevention order etc by court in Scotland

4.136ZE

4.136ZE.1

This section applies where a relevant order has been made in respect of a
person who now—

4.136ZE.1.a

is residing in Scotland, or

4.136ZE.1.b

is in or is intending to come to Scotland.

4.136ZE.2

In this section “ relevant order ” means—

4.136ZE.2.a

a sexual harm prevention order,

4.136ZE.2.b

a sexual offences prevention order, or

4.136ZE.2.c

a foreign travel order.

4.136ZE.3

An application may be made to the appropriate sheriff in Scotland—

4.136ZE.3.a

by the defendant, or

4.136ZE.3.b

by the chief constable,

for an order varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order.

4.136ZE.4

Subject to subsections (5) to (12), on the application the court, after
hearing the person making the application and the other person mentioned in
subsection (3) (if that person wishes to be heard), may make any order
varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order that the appropriate
sheriff considers appropriate.

4.136ZE.5

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

4.136ZE.5.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Scotland, and

4.136ZE.5.b

whether—

4.136ZE.5.b.i

in the case of a sexual harm prevention order, the defendant is likely to
return to, or to visit, England and Wales, or

4.136ZE.5.b.ii

in the case of a sexual offences prevention order or foreign travel order, the
defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, Northern Ireland.

4.136ZE.6

A sexual harm prevention order may be renewed, or varied under this section so
as to impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the defendant, only if
it is necessary to do so for the purpose of—

4.136ZE.6.a

protecting the public in Scotland, or any particular members of the public in
Scotland, from sexual harm from the defendant, or

4.136ZE.6.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

4.136ZE.7

A sexual harm prevention order as renewed or varied under this section may
contain only such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the
purpose of—

4.136ZE.7.a

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from sexual harm
from the defendant, or

4.136ZE.7.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

4.136ZE.8

A sexual offences prevention order may be renewed, or varied under this
section so as to impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the
defendant, only if it is necessary to do so for the purpose of protecting the
public in Scotland, or any particular members of the public in Scotland, from
serious sexual harm from the defendant.

4.136ZE.9

A sexual offences prevention order as renewed or varied under this section may
contain only such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the
purpose of protecting the public or any particular members of the public from
serious sexual harm from the defendant.

4.136ZE.10

A foreign travel order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as to
impose additional prohibitions on the defendant, only if it is necessary to do
so for the purpose of protecting children generally or any child from serious
sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

4.136ZE.11

A foreign travel order as renewed or varied under this section may contain
only such prohibitions as are necessary for the purpose mentioned in
subsection (10).

4.136ZE.12

The court must not discharge a sexual harm prevention order or a sexual
offences prevention order before the end of 5 years beginning with the day on
which the order was made without the consent of the defendant and the chief
constable.

4.136ZE.13

The defendant may appeal against the making of an order under this section, or
the refusal to make such an order, as if it were a decision constituting final
judgment in civil proceedings within the meaning of the Courts Reform
(Scotland) Act  2014 (asp 18) .

4.136ZE.14

In this section—

“ the appropriate sheriff ” means— in any case, a sheriff in whose sheriffdom
the defendant resides, or in a case where the application is made by the chief
constable— a sheriff in whose sheriffdom the defendant is believed by the
chief constable to be, or a sheriff to whose sheriffdom the defendant is
believed by the chief constable to be intending to come; “ the chief constable
” means the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland; “ child ” means
a person under 18; “ serious sexual harm ”, in relation to the renewal or
variation of a sexual offences prevention order, means serious physical or
psychological harm caused by the defendant committing one or more of the
offences listed in Schedule 3; “ serious sexual harm ”, in relation to the
renewal or variation of a foreign travel order, means serious physical or
psychological harm caused by the defendant doing, outside the United Kingdom,
anything which would constitute an offence listed in Schedule 3 if done in any
part of the United Kingdom; “sexual harm” and “ vulnerable adult ”, in
relation to the renewal or variation of a sexual harm prevention order, have
the meanings given by section 103B(1).

########## Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual risk order etc by court in Scotland

4.136ZF

4.136ZF.1

This section applies where a relevant order has been made in respect of a
person who now—

4.136ZF.1.a

is residing in Scotland, or

4.136ZF.1.b

is in or is intending to come to Scotland.

4.136ZF.2

In this section “ relevant order ” means—

4.136ZF.2.a

a sexual risk order, or

4.136ZF.2.b

a risk of sexual harm order.

4.136ZF.3

An application may be made to the appropriate sheriff in Scotland—

4.136ZF.3.a

by the defendant, or

4.136ZF.3.b

by the chief constable,

for an order varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order.

4.136ZF.4

Subject to subsections (5) to (10), on the application the court, after
hearing the person making the application and the other person mentioned in
subsection (3) (if that person wishes to be heard), may make any order
varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order that the appropriate
sheriff considers appropriate.

4.136ZF.5

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

4.136ZF.5.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Scotland, and

4.136ZF.5.b

whether—

4.136ZF.5.b.i

in the case of a sexual risk order, the defendant is likely to return to, or
to visit, England and Wales, or

4.136ZF.5.b.ii

in the case of a risk of sexual harm order, the defendant is likely to return
to, or to visit, Northern Ireland.

4.136ZF.6

A sexual risk order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as to
impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the defendant, only if it is
necessary to do so for the purpose of—

4.136ZF.6.a

protecting the public in Scotland, or any particular members of the public in
Scotland, from harm from the defendant, or

4.136ZF.6.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

4.136ZF.7

A sexual risk order as renewed or varied under this section may contain only
such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the purpose of—

4.136ZF.7.a

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from harm from
the defendant, or

4.136ZF.7.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

4.136ZF.8

A risk of sexual harm order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as
to impose additional prohibitions on the defendant, only if it is necessary to
do so for the purpose of protecting children generally or any child from
physical or psychological harm from the defendant doing acts within section
123(3).

4.136ZF.9

A risk of sexual harm order as renewed or varied under this section may
contain only such prohibitions as are necessary for the purpose mentioned in
subsection  (8) .

4.136ZF.10

The court must not discharge a relevant order before the end of 2 years
beginning with the day on which the order was made without the consent of the
defendant and the chief constable.

4.136ZF.11

The defendant may appeal against the making of an order under this section, or
the refusal to make such an order, as if it were a decision constituting final
judgment in civil proceedings within the meaning of the Courts Reform
(Scotland) Act  2014 (asp 18) .

4.136ZF.12

In this section—

“ the appropriate sheriff ” means— in any case, a sheriff in whose sheriffdom
the defendant resides, or in a case where the application is made by the chief
constable— a sheriff in whose sheriffdom the defendant is believed by the
chief constable to be, or a sheriff to whose sheriffdom the defendant is
believed by the chief constable to be intending to come; “ the chief constable
” means the chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland; “child”— in
relation to the renewal or variation of a sexual risk order, means a person
under 18; in relation to the renewal or variation of a risk of sexual harm
order, means a person under 16; “harm” and “ vulnerable adult ”, in relation
to the renewal or variation of a sexual risk order, have the meanings given by
section 122B(1).

###### Amendments of the Sentencing Code

5

After section 351 of the Sentencing Code insert—

########## Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual harm prevention order by court in Scotland

5.351A

5.351A.1

This section applies where a sexual harm prevention order has been made in
respect of an offender who—

5.351A.1.a

is residing in Scotland, or

5.351A.1.b

is in or intends to come to Scotland.

5.351A.2

An application may be made to the appropriate sheriff in Scotland—

5.351A.2.a

by the offender, or

5.351A.2.b

by the chief constable,

for an order varying, renewing or discharging the sexual harm prevention
order.

5.351A.3

Subsection  (4)  applies where an application under subsection  (2)  is made.

5.351A.4

After hearing—

5.351A.4.a

the person making the application, and

5.351A.4.b

the other person mentioned in subsection  (2)  (if that person wishes to be
heard),

the sheriff may make any order varying, renewing or discharging the sexual
harm prevention order that the sheriff considers appropriate.

This is subject to subsections (5) to (8).

5.351A.5

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

5.351A.5.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in Scotland, and

5.351A.5.b

whether the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, England and Wales.

5.351A.6

An order may be renewed, or varied so as to impose additional prohibitions or
requirements on the offender, only if it is necessary to do so for the purpose
of—

5.351A.6.a

protecting the public in Scotland, or any particular members of the public in
Scotland, from sexual harm from the offender, or

5.351A.6.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the offender outside the United
Kingdom.

5.351A.7

An order as renewed or varied under this section may contain only such
prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the purpose of—

5.351A.7.a

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from sexual harm
from the offender, or

5.351A.7.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the offender outside the United
Kingdom.

5.351A.8

The court must not discharge an order before the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which the order was made without the consent of the
defendant and the chief constable.

5.351A.9

The offender may appeal against the making of an order under this section, or
the refusal to make such an order, as if it were a decision constituting final
judgment in civil proceedings within the meaning of the Courts Reform
(Scotland) Act  2014 (asp 18) .

5.351A.10

In this section—

“ the appropriate sheriff ” means— in any case, a sheriff in whose sheriffdom
the offender resides, or in a case where the application is made by the chief
constable— a sheriff in whose sheriffdom the offender is believed by the chief
constable to be, or a sheriff to whose sheriffdom the offender is believed by
the chief constable to be intending to come; “ the chief constable ” means the
chief constable of the Police Service of Scotland.

##### Variation of order by court in England and Wales

6

After section 136ZF of the Sexual Offences Act 2003 (inserted by paragraph  4
) insert—

######### Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual harm prevention order made in Scotland by court in England and Wales

6.136ZG

6.136ZG.1

This section applies where a relevant Scottish order has been made in respect
of a person (“ the defendant ”) who now—

6.136ZG.1.a

is residing in England and Wales, or

6.136ZG.1.b

is in or is intending to come to England and Wales.

6.136ZG.2

In this section “ relevant Scottish order ” means a sexual harm prevention
order made under section 11 or 12 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act  2016 (asp 22) .

6.136ZG.3

A person within subsection (4) may by complaint to the appropriate court apply
for an order varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order.

6.136ZG.4

Those persons are—

6.136ZG.4.a

the defendant;

6.136ZG.4.b

the chief officer of police for the area in which the defendant resides;

6.136ZG.4.c

a chief officer of police who believes that the defendant is in, or is
intending to come to, that officer’s police area.

6.136ZG.5

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (4)(b) or (c) must have regard to the list in
considering—

6.136ZG.5.a

whether to apply for an order varying or renewing the relevant Scottish order
for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children,
from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

6.136ZG.5.b

in particular, whether to apply for an order imposing, varying or renewing a
prohibition on foreign travel for that purpose.

6.136ZG.6

Subject to subsections (7) to (14), on an application under this section the
court, after hearing the person making the application and (if they wish to be
heard) the other persons mentioned in subsection (4), may make any order
varying, renewing or discharging the relevant Scottish order that the court
considers appropriate.

6.136ZG.7

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

6.136ZG.7.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in England and Wales, and

6.136ZG.7.b

whether the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, Scotland.

6.136ZG.8

A relevant Scottish order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as
to impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the defendant, only if it
is necessary to do so for the purpose of—

6.136ZG.8.a

protecting the public in England and Wales, or any particular members of the
public in England and Wales, from sexual harm from the defendant, or

6.136ZG.8.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

6.136ZG.9

A relevant Scottish order as renewed or varied under this section may contain
only such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the purpose of—

6.136ZG.9.a

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from sexual harm
from the defendant, or

6.136ZG.9.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

6.136ZG.10

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

6.136ZG.10.a

whether any order varying or renewing the relevant Scottish order is necessary
for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children,
from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

6.136ZG.10.b

in particular, whether an order imposing, varying or renewing a prohibition on
foreign travel is necessary for that purpose.

6.136ZG.11

A relevant Scottish order may be renewed or varied under this section so as to
require the defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s
compliance with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the order.

6.136ZG.12

Section 103FA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

6.136ZG.12.a

the variation under this section of a relevant Scottish order to require the
defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s compliance
with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the order, or

6.136ZG.12.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual harm prevention order,
subject to subsection (13).

6.136ZG.13

In its application to the variation or renewal of a relevant Scottish order,
section 103FA has effect as if—

6.136ZG.13.a

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to a case where it is proposed to include
in the order a requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii)
included a case where the order already includes such a requirement or
provision,

6.136ZG.13.b

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to the local justice area in which the
place or area proposed to be specified is situated included the local justice
area in which the place or area already specified is situated, and

6.136ZG.13.c

the reference in subsection (9) to section 103E were to this section.

6.136ZG.14

The court must not discharge a relevant Scottish order, or vary such an order
so as to remove a prohibition or requirement, unless the order or, as the case
may be, the prohibition or requirement is no longer necessary for the purpose
of—

6.136ZG.14.a

protecting the public, or any particular members of the public, from sexual
harm from the defendant, or

6.136ZG.14.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United
Kingdom.

6.136ZG.15

In this section—

“ adult magistrates’ court ” means a magistrates’ court that is not a youth
court; “ the appropriate court ” means— where the defendant is aged 18 or
over, an adult magistrates’ court for the area in which the defendant resides
or, where the application is made by a chief officer of police, any adult
magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area; where the defendant is under the age of 18, a
youth court for the area in which the defendant resides or, where the
application is made by a chief officer of police, any youth court acting for a
local justice area that includes any part of the chief officer’s police area;
“ child ” means a person under 18; “ prohibition on foreign travel ” includes
a prohibition on foreign travel within the meaning of Chapter 3 of Part 2 of
the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act 2016 (see sections 17 and
25 of that Act); “ sexual harm ” and “ vulnerable adult ” have the same
meanings as in Chapter 3 of Part 2 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act 2016 (see sections 10 and 25 of that Act).

######### Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual offences prevention order or foreign travel order by court in England and Wales

6.136ZH

6.136ZH.1

This section applies where a relevant order has been made in respect of a
person who now—

6.136ZH.1.a

is residing in England and Wales, or

6.136ZH.1.b

is in or is intending to come to England and Wales.

6.136ZH.2

In this section “ relevant order ” means—

6.136ZH.2.a

a sexual offences prevention order, or

6.136ZH.2.b

a foreign travel order.

6.136ZH.3

A person within subsection (4) may by complaint to the appropriate court apply
for an order varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order.

6.136ZH.4

Those persons are—

6.136ZH.4.a

the defendant;

6.136ZH.4.b

the chief officer of police for the area in which the defendant resides;

6.136ZH.4.c

a chief officer of police who believes that the defendant is in, or is
intending to come to, that officer’s police area.

6.136ZH.5

If—

6.136ZH.5.a

this section applies in relation to a person because that person is subject to
a foreign travel order, and

6.136ZH.5.b

a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime, Sentencing
and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high risk of
sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn,

a person mentioned in subsection (4)(b) or (c) must have regard to the list in
considering whether to apply for an order varying or renewing the foreign
travel order.

6.136ZH.6

Subject to subsections (7) to (16), on an application under this section the
court, after hearing the person making the application and (if they wish to be
heard) the other persons mentioned in subsection (4), may make any order
varying, renewing or discharging the relevant order that the court considers
appropriate.

6.136ZH.7

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

6.136ZH.7.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in England and Wales, and

6.136ZH.7.b

whether the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, Northern Ireland.

6.136ZH.8

A sexual offences prevention order may be renewed, or varied under this
section so as to impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the
defendant, only if it is necessary to do so for the purpose of protecting the
public in England and Wales, or any particular members of the public in
England and Wales, from serious sexual harm from the defendant.

6.136ZH.9

A sexual offences prevention order as renewed or varied under this section may
contain only such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the
purpose of protecting the public or any particular members of the public from
serious sexual harm from the defendant.

6.136ZH.10

A sexual offences prevention order may be renewed or varied under this section
so as to require the defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the
defendant’s compliance with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the
order.

6.136ZH.11

Section 103FA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

6.136ZH.11.a

the variation under this section of a sexual offences prevention order to
require the defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s
compliance with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the order, or

6.136ZH.11.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual harm prevention order,
subject to subsection (12).

6.136ZH.12

In its application to the variation or renewal of a sexual offences prevention
order, section 103FA has effect as if—

6.136ZH.12.a

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to a case where it is proposed to include
in the order a requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii)
included a case where the order already includes such a requirement or
provision,

6.136ZH.12.b

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to the local justice area in which the
place or area proposed to be specified is situated included the local justice
area in which the place or area already specified is situated, and

6.136ZH.12.c

the reference in subsection (9) to section 103E were to this section.

6.136ZH.13

The court must not discharge a sexual offences prevention order before the end
of 5 years beginning with the day on which the order was made without the
consent of the defendant and—

6.136ZH.13.a

where the application under this section is made by a chief officer of police,
that chief officer, or

6.136ZH.13.b

in any other case, the chief officer of police for the area in which the
defendant resides.

6.136ZH.14

A foreign travel order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as to
impose additional prohibitions on the defendant, only if it is necessary to do
so for the purpose of protecting children generally or any child from serious
sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

6.136ZH.15

A foreign travel order as renewed or varied under this section may contain
only such prohibitions as are necessary for the purpose mentioned in
subsection (14).

6.136ZH.16

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering whether to renew or vary a foreign travel
order under this section.

6.136ZH.17

In this section—

“ adult magistrates’ court ” means a magistrates’ court that is not a youth
court; “ the appropriate court ” means— where the defendant is aged 18 or
over, an adult magistrates’ court for the area in which the defendant resides
or, where the application is made by a chief officer of police, any adult
magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area; where the defendant is under the age of 18, a
youth court for the area in which the defendant resides or, where the
application is made by a chief officer of police, any youth court acting for a
local justice area that includes any part of the chief officer’s police area;
“ child ” means a person under 18; “serious sexual harm”— in relation to the
renewal or variation of a sexual offences prevention order, means serious
physical or psychological harm caused by the defendant committing one or more
of the offences listed in Schedule 3; in relation to the renewal or variation
of a foreign travel order, means serious physical or psychological harm caused
by the defendant doing, outside the United Kingdom, anything which would
constitute an offence listed in Schedule 3 if done in any part of the United
Kingdom.

######### Variation, renewal or discharge of sexual risk order made in Scotland by court in England and Wales

6.136ZI

6.136ZI.1

This section applies where a relevant Scottish order has been made in respect
of a person (“ the defendant ”) who now—

6.136ZI.1.a

is residing in England and Wales, or

6.136ZI.1.b

is in or is intending to come to England and Wales.

6.136ZI.2

In this section “ relevant Scottish order ” means a sexual risk order made
under section 27 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm (Scotland) Act  2016
(asp 22) .

6.136ZI.3

A person within subsection (4) may by complaint to the appropriate court apply
for an order varying, renewing or discharging the relevant Scottish order.

6.136ZI.4

Those persons are—

6.136ZI.4.a

the defendant;

6.136ZI.4.b

the chief officer of police for the area in which the defendant resides;

6.136ZI.4.c

a chief officer of police who believes that the defendant is in, or is
intending to come to, that officer‘s police area.

6.136ZI.5

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 (list of countries where children are at high
risk of sexual abuse or sexual exploitation) and has not been withdrawn, a
person mentioned in subsection (4)(b) or (c) must have regard to the list in
considering—

6.136ZI.5.a

whether to apply for an order varying or renewing the relevant Scottish order
for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children,
from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

6.136ZI.5.b

in particular, whether to apply for an order imposing, varying or renewing a
prohibition on foreign travel for that purpose.

6.136ZI.6

Subject to subsections (7) to (14), on the application the court, after
hearing the person making the application and (if they wish to be heard) the
other persons mentioned in subsection (4), may make any order varying,
renewing or discharging the relevant Scottish order that the court considers
appropriate.

6.136ZI.7

In determining the application the court must have regard to—

6.136ZI.7.a

the time for which the defendant is likely to remain in England and Wales, and

6.136ZI.7.b

whether the defendant is likely to return to, or to visit, Scotland.

6.136ZI.8

A relevant Scottish order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as
to impose additional prohibitions or requirements on the defendant, only if it
is necessary to do so for the purpose of—

6.136ZI.8.a

protecting the public in England and Wales, or any particular members of the
public in England and Wales, from harm from the defendant, or

6.136ZI.8.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

6.136ZI.9

A relevant Scottish order as renewed or varied under this section may contain
only such prohibitions and requirements as are necessary for the purpose of—

6.136ZI.9.a

protecting the public or any particular members of the public from harm from
the defendant, or

6.136ZI.9.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

6.136ZI.10

If a list has been published under section 172 of the Police, Crime,
Sentencing and Courts Act 2022 and has not been withdrawn, the court must have
regard to the list in considering—

6.136ZI.10.a

whether any order varying or renewing the relevant Scottish order is necessary
for the purpose of protecting children generally, or any particular children,
from sexual harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom, and

6.136ZI.10.b

in particular, whether an order imposing, varying or renewing a prohibition on
foreign travel is necessary for that purpose.

6.136ZI.11

A relevant Scottish order may be renewed or varied under this section so as to
require the defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s
compliance with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the order.

6.136ZI.12

Section 122EA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

6.136ZI.12.a

the variation under this section of a relevant Scottish order to require the
defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s compliance
with the prohibitions and requirements imposed by the order, or

6.136ZI.12.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual risk order, subject to
subsection (13).

6.136ZI.13

In its application to the variation or renewal of a relevant Scottish order,
section 122EA has effect as if—

6.136ZI.13.a

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to a case where it is proposed to include
in the order a requirement or provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii)
included a case where the order already includes such a requirement or
provision,

6.136ZI.13.b

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to the local justice area in which the
place or area proposed to be specified is situated included the local justice
area in which the place or area already specified is situated, and

6.136ZI.13.c

the reference in subsection (9) to section 122D were to this section.

6.136ZI.14

The court must not discharge a relevant Scottish order, or vary such an order
so as to remove a prohibition or requirement, unless the order or, as the case
may be, the prohibition or requirement is no longer necessary for the purpose
of—

6.136ZI.14.a

protecting the public, or any particular members of the public, from harm from
the defendant, or

6.136ZI.14.b

protecting children or vulnerable adults generally, or any particular children
or vulnerable adults, from harm from the defendant outside the United Kingdom.

6.136ZI.15

In this section—

“ adult magistrates’ court ” means a magistrates’ court that is not a youth
court; “ the appropriate court ” means— where the defendant is aged 18 or
over, an adult magistrates’ court for the area in which the defendant resides
or, where the application is made by a chief officer of police, any adult
magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area; where the defendant is under the age of 18, a
youth court for the area in which the defendant resides or, where the
application is made by a chief officer of police, any youth court acting for a
local justice area that includes any part of the chief officer’s police area;
“ child ” means a person under 18; “ harm ” and “ vulnerable adult ” have the
same meanings as in Chapter 4 of Part 2 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual
Harm (Scotland) Act 2016 (see sections 26 and 36 of that Act); “ prohibition
on foreign travel ” includes a prohibition on foreign travel within the
meaning of Chapter 4 of Part 2 of the Abusive Behaviour and Sexual Harm
(Scotland) Act 2016 (see sections 29 and 36 of that Act).

######### Variation, renewal or discharge of risk of sexual harm order by court in England and Wales

6.136ZJ

6.136ZJ.1

This section applies where a risk of sexual harm order has been made in
respect of a person who now—

6.136ZJ.1.a

is residing in England and Wales, or

6.136ZJ.1.b

is in or is intending to come to England and Wales.

6.136ZJ.2

A person within subsection (3) may by complaint to the appropriate court apply
for an order varying, renewing or discharging the order.

6.136ZJ.3

Those persons are—

6.136ZJ.3.a

the defendant;

6.136ZJ.3.b

the chief officer of police for the area in which the defendant resides;

6.136ZJ.3.c

a chief officer of police who believes that the defendant is in, or is
intending to come to, that officer’s police area.

6.136ZJ.4

Subject to subsections (5) to (10), on the application the court, after
hearing the person making the application and (if they wish to be heard) the
other persons mentioned in subsection (3), may make any order varying,
renewing or discharging the risk of sexual harm order that the court considers
appropriate.

6.136ZJ.5

A risk of sexual harm order may be renewed, or varied under this section so as
to impose—

6.136ZJ.5.a

additional prohibitions on the defendant, or

6.136ZJ.5.b

requirements of the kind mentioned in subsection (7) on the defendant,

only if it is necessary to do so for the purpose of protecting children
generally or any child from physical or psychological harm, caused by the
defendant doing acts within section 123(3).

6.136ZJ.6

A risk of sexual harm order as renewed or varied under this section may
contain only—

6.136ZJ.6.a

such prohibitions as are necessary for the purpose mentioned in subsection
(5), and

6.136ZJ.6.b

such requirements of the kind mentioned in subsection (7) as are necessary for
that purpose.

6.136ZJ.7

A risk of sexual harm order may be renewed or varied under this section so as
to require the defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s
compliance with the prohibitions imposed by the order.

6.136ZJ.8

Section 122EA (electronic monitoring requirements) applies in relation to—

6.136ZJ.8.a

the variation under this section of a risk of sexual harm order to require the
defendant to submit to electronic monitoring of the defendant’s compliance
with the prohibitions imposed by the order, or

6.136ZJ.8.b

the renewal of an order to continue such a requirement,

as it applies in relation to the making of a sexual harm prevention order,
subject to subsection (9).

6.136ZJ.9

In its application to the variation or renewal of a risk of sexual harm order,
section 122EA has effect as if—

6.136ZJ.9.a

subsection (4)(b)(i) were omitted,

6.136ZJ.9.b

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to a case where it is proposed to include
in the order a provision mentioned in sub-paragraph (ii) included a case where
the order already includes such a provision,

6.136ZJ.9.c

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to the local justice area in which the
place or area proposed to be specified is situated included the local justice
area in which the place or area already specified is situated, and

6.136ZJ.9.d

the reference in subsection (9) to section 122D were to this section.

6.136ZJ.10

The court must not discharge a risk of sexual harm order before the end of 2
years beginning with the day on which the order was made without the consent
of the defendant and—

6.136ZJ.10.a

where the application under this section is made by a chief officer of police,
that chief officer, or

6.136ZJ.10.b

in any other case, the chief officer of police for the area in which the
defendant resides.

6.136ZJ.11

In this section—

“ adult magistrates’ court ” means a magistrates’ court that is not a youth
court; “ the appropriate court ” means— where the defendant is aged 18 or
over, an adult magistrates’ court for the area in which the defendant resides
or, where the application is made by a chief officer of police, any adult
magistrates’ court acting for a local justice area that includes any part of
the chief officer’s police area; where the defendant is under the age of 18, a
youth court for the area in which the defendant resides or, where the
application is made by a chief officer of police, any youth court acting for a
local justice area that includes any part of the chief officer’s police area;
“ child ” means a person under 16.

Management of terrorist offenders: provision consequential on sections 184 to
187

Section 188

##### Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 (c. 60)

1

1.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 51(b), after “section 41” insert  “or 43B” .

1.3

In section 65(1), in the definition of “the terrorism provisions”, for
“section 41” substitute  “sections 41 and 43B” .

1.4

In section 118(2)(a), after “section 41” insert  “or 43B” .

##### Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 (c. 16)

2

2.1

Schedule 1 to the Criminal Justice and Police Act 2001 is amended as follows.

2.2

In Part 1, after paragraph 69B insert—

2.2.69C

The power of seizure conferred by section 43E(2) of the Terrorism Act 2000
(seizure on the occasion of a search necessary for purposes connected with
protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism).

2.3

In Part 2, after paragraph 82A insert—

2.3.82B

The power of seizure conferred by section 43E(2) of the Terrorism Act 2000
(seizure on the occasion of a search necessary for purposes connected with
protecting members of the public from a risk of terrorism).

##### Counter-Terrorism Act 2008 (c. 28)

3

In section 1(1) of the Counter-Terrorism Act 2008, after paragraph (bb)
insert—

3.bc

section 43C(1) of that Act (search of terrorist offender released on licence);

3.bd

section 43C(5) of that Act (search of vehicle in connection with search of
terrorist offender released on licence);

3.be

section 43D of that Act (search of premises of offender released on licence
for purposes connected with protection from risk of terrorism);

.

##### Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 (

4

4.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 is amended as
follows.

4.2

In Article 2—

4.2.a

in paragraph (2), in the definition of “the terrorism provisions”, for
“section 41” substitute  “sections 41 and 43B” ;

4.2.b

in paragraph (3)(a), after “section 41” insert  “or 43B” .

4.3

In Article 51(b), after “section 41” insert  “or 43B” .

##### Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 

5

In section 59 of the Criminal Justice (Scotland) Act 2016—

5.a

in the heading, for “terrorism offences” substitute  “cases involving
terrorism” ;

5.b

in subsection (1), after “41(1)” insert  “or 43B(1)” .

Further provision about video and audio links in criminal proceedings

Section 200

##### Criminal Justice Act 2003

1

1.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 is amended as follows.

1.2

For section 52 substitute—

########### Further provision about the giving, variation and rescission of live-link directions

1.2.52

1.2.52.1

The power conferred by section  51  includes power to give—

1.2.52.1.a

a direction that is applicable to several, or all, of the persons taking part
in particular eligible criminal proceedings;

1.2.52.1.b

a direction that is applicable to a particular person in respect of only some
aspects of particular eligible criminal proceedings (such as giving evidence
or attending the proceedings when not giving evidence);

1.2.52.1.c

a direction requiring or permitting a person who is outside England and Wales
(whether in the United Kingdom or elsewhere) to take part in eligible criminal
proceedings through a live audio link or a live video link.

1.2.52.2

The court may vary or rescind a direction under section  51  at any time
before or during the eligible criminal proceedings to which it relates (but
this does not affect the court’s power to give a further direction under that
section in relation to the proceedings).

1.2.52.3

A direction under section  51  may not be rescinded unless—

1.2.52.3.a

the court is satisfied that it is in the interests of justice for the
direction to be rescinded,

1.2.52.3.b

the parties to the proceedings have been given the opportunity to make
representations, and

1.2.52.3.c

if so required by subsection  (9) , the relevant youth offending team has been
given the opportunity to make representations.

1.2.52.4

In relation to the variation of a direction given under section  51 —

1.2.52.4.a

so far as the effect of the variation would be to allow a person to take part
in eligible criminal proceedings through a live audio link or a live video
link, or to alter (without removing) a person’s ability to do so, sections  51
(4)  and 53(1) to (3) apply as they apply to the giving of a direction;

1.2.52.4.b

so far as the effect of the variation would be to remove a person’s ability to
take part in eligible criminal proceedings through a live audio link or a live
video link, subsection  (3)  applies as it applies to the rescission of a
direction.

1.2.52.5

Section  51 (5)  and  (6)  applies in relation to the variation or rescission
of a direction given under section  51  as it applies to the giving of a
direction under that section.

1.2.52.6

A direction under section  51  may be given, varied or rescinded—

1.2.52.6.a

on an application by a party to the proceedings, or

1.2.52.6.b

of the court’s own motion.

But a party may not apply for a variation or rescission unless there has been
a material change of circumstances since the direction was given or last
varied.

1.2.52.7

The court must state in open court its reasons for refusing an application for
the giving, variation or rescission of a direction under section  51  and, if
it is a magistrates’ court, must cause them to be entered in the register of
its proceedings.

1.2.52.8

If a hearing takes place in relation to the giving, variation or rescission of
a direction under section  51 , the court may require or permit a person to
take part in that hearing through—

1.2.52.8.a

a live audio link, or

1.2.52.8.b

a live video link.

1.2.52.9

The requirement referred to in section  51 (4)(c)  and subsection  (3)(c)
arises in a case where—

1.2.52.9.a

the defendant is a party to the proceedings, and

1.2.52.9.b

either—

1.2.52.9.b.i

the defendant has not attained the age of 18 years, or

1.2.52.9.b.ii

the defendant has attained the age of 18 years but the court is dealing with
the case as if the defendant had not attained that age.

########### Further provision about the effect of live-link directions

1.2.52A

1.2.52A.1

A person who takes part in eligible criminal proceedings in accordance with a
direction under section  51  is to be treated as complying with any
requirement (however imposed or expressed) for that person to attend or appear
before court, or to surrender to the custody of the court, for the purposes of
that participation in those proceedings.

1.2.52A.2

A person who takes part in eligible criminal proceedings in accordance with a
direction under section  51  is to be treated as present in court for the
purposes of those proceedings.

1.2.52A.3

If eligible criminal proceedings are conducted with one or more persons taking
part in accordance with a direction under section  51 , the proceedings are to
be regarded as taking place—

1.2.52A.3.a

if at least one member of the court is taking part in the proceedings while in
a courtroom, in that courtroom (or, if more than one courtroom falls within
this paragraph, such of them as the court directs),

1.2.52A.3.b

if no member of the court, but at least one other person, is taking part in
the proceedings while in a courtroom, in that courtroom (or, if more than one
courtroom falls within this paragraph, such of them as the court directs), or

1.2.52A.3.c

if no person is taking part in the proceedings while in a courtroom, at such
place as the court directs (being a place where the court could lawfully sit
for the purposes of those proceedings).

1.2.52A.4

In subsection  (3) , “ courtroom ” includes any place where proceedings of the
sort in question might ordinarily be held (if no person were taking part in
the proceedings in accordance with a direction under section  51 ).

1.2.52A.5

A statement made on oath by a witness outside the United Kingdom and given in
evidence through a live audio link or a live video link in accordance with a
direction under section  51  is to be treated for the purposes of section 1 of
the Perjury Act 1911 as having been made in the proceedings in which it is
given in evidence.

1.3

In section 53—

1.3.a

for the heading substitute  “Further provision about live links in
magistrates’ courts” ;

1.3.b

in subsection (1)—

1.3.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a), for “This section applies” substitute
“Subsections (2) and (3) apply” ;

1.3.b.ii

in paragraph (a), for “for evidence to be given through a live link in
proceedings before the court” substitute  “requiring or permitting a person to
take part in proceedings before the court through a live audio link or a live
video link” ;

1.3.b.iii

in paragraph (b), for “receiving such evidence” substitute  “such
participation” ;

1.3.c

after subsection (3) insert—

1.3.c.4

The following functions of a magistrates’ court may be discharged by a single
justice—

1.3.c.4.a

giving a direction under section  51  or varying such a direction under
section  52 (2) ;

1.3.c.4.b

rescinding under section  52 (2)  a direction given under section  51  before
the eligible criminal proceedings concerned begin;

1.3.c.4.c

requiring or permitting, under section  52 (8) , a person to take part by live
audio link or live video link in a hearing about a matter within paragraph
(a)  or (b).

1.4

In section 54(1), for “a live link” substitute  “a live audio link or a live
video link by a witness (including the defendant)” .

1.5

In section 55—

1.5.a

in subsection (2)—

1.5.a.i

in paragraph (a), for “51 or 52” substitute  “ 52 (6) ” ;

1.5.a.ii

in paragraph (b), for “live links” substitute  “live audio links and live
video links” ;

1.5.b

in subsection (3)—

1.5.b.i

in paragraph (a), omit “uncontested”;

1.5.b.ii

in paragraph (b), for “51” substitute  “ 52 (6) ” ;

1.5.b.iii

in paragraph (c), for “51 or 52” substitute  “ 52 (6) ” .

1.6

In section 56—

1.6.a

in subsection (1)—

1.6.a.i

omit the definition of “legal representative”;

1.6.a.ii

before the definition of “local justice area” insert—

“ bail ” includes remand to local authority accommodation in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 3 of the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders
Act 2012, “ defendant ” includes the person accused or convicted of an offence
and, in the case of an enforcement hearing, the person liable to pay the sum
or financial penalty concerned, “ eligible criminal proceedings ” has the
meaning given in section  51 (3) , “ enforcement hearing ” means a hearing
relating to collection, discharge, satisfaction or enforcement of— a sum that
has been adjudged to be paid on conviction for an offence by a magistrates’
court or the Crown Court, or a financial penalty that is enforceable in
accordance with section 85(6) and (7) of the Criminal Justice and Immigration
Act 2008 as if it were such a sum (including a hearing to determine whether a
financial penalty is so enforceable), “ live audio link ”, in relation to a
person (P) taking part in proceedings, means a live telephone link or other
arrangement which— enables P to hear all other persons taking part in the
proceedings who are not in the same location as P, and enables all other
persons taking part in the proceedings who are not in the same location as P
to hear P, “ live video link ”, in relation to a person (P) taking part in
proceedings, means a live television link or other arrangement which— enables
P to see and hear all other persons taking part in the proceedings who are not
in the same location as P, and enables all other persons taking part in the
proceedings who are not in the same location as P to see and hear P,

;

1.6.a.iii

after the definition of “local justice area” insert—

“ preliminary hearing ” means a hearing in proceedings for an offence held
before the start of the trial (within the meaning of subsection (11A) or (11B)
of section 22 of the Prosecution of Offences Act 1985), including, in the case
of proceedings in the Crown Court, a preparatory hearing held under— section 7
of the Criminal Justice Act 1987 (cases of serious or complex fraud), or
section 29 of the Criminal Procedure and Investigations Act 1996 (other
serious, complex or lengthy cases), “ relevant youth offending team ” means
the youth offending team (established under section 39 of the Crime and
Disorder Act 1998) whose functions are exercisable in relation to the
defendant concerned, “ sentencing hearing ” means any hearing following
conviction for an offence which is held for the purpose of— proceedings (in a
magistrates’ court) relating to committal to the Crown Court for sentencing,
sentencing the offender or determining how the court should deal with the
offender in respect of the offence (including reviewing, amending or revoking
such a sentence or determination), or determining— how the offender has
complied with a sentence given in respect of the offence, or how the offender
should be dealt with in respect of compliance with such a sentence, and here “
sentence ” includes any way in which a court has determined that the offender
should be dealt with in respect of the offence,

;

1.6.b

after subsection (1) insert—

1.6.b.1A

In this Part, reference to taking part in proceedings means taking part in
whatever capacity, including hearing the proceedings as a member of the court.

1.6.b.1B

In the application of this Part in relation to a witness, a reference to
taking part in proceedings includes attending those proceedings for a purpose
preliminary or incidental to the giving of evidence.

;

1.6.c

omit subsections (2) and (3);

1.6.d

for subsection (4) substitute—

1.6.d.4

The following matters are to be disregarded for the purposes of the
definitions of “live audio link” and “live video link” in subsection (1)—

1.6.d.4.a

the extent (if any) to which a person is unable to see or hear by reason of
any impairment of eyesight or hearing;

1.6.d.4.b

the effect of any direction or order which provides for one person taking part
in proceedings to be prevented by means of a screen or other arrangement from
seeing another person taking part in the proceedings.

##### Extradition Act 2003

2

2.1

The Extradition Act 2003 is amended as follows.

2.2

In section 206A—

2.2.a

in the heading, omit “certain”;

2.2.b

in subsection (1)—

2.2.b.i

in paragraph (a), omit the words from “other” to “56,”;

2.2.b.ii

in paragraph (b), omit the words from “, other” to the end;

2.2.c

in subsection (2)—

2.2.c.i

for the words from “the person” to “during the hearing,” substitute  “it is in
the interests of justice to do so,” ;

2.2.c.ii

omit “at any time before the hearing”;

2.2.d

for subsection (3) substitute—

2.2.d.3

A live link direction is a direction requiring a person to take part in the
hearing (in whatever capacity) through a live link.

;

2.2.e

omit subsection (5);

2.2.f

for subsection (6) substitute—

2.2.f.6

A person who takes part in the hearing through a live link is to be treated as
present in court for the purposes of the hearing.

2.3

In section 206C—

2.3.a

omit subsections (4) and (5);

2.3.b

in subsection (6)—

2.3.b.i

in the opening words, for “, while absent from the place where the hearing is
being held,” substitute  “(P)” ;

2.3.b.ii

in paragraph (a), for the words from “the appropriate” to the end substitute
“all other persons taking part in the hearing who are not in the same location
as P, and” ;

2.3.b.iii

in paragraph (b), for the words from “the judge” to the end substitute  “all
other persons taking part in the hearing who are not in the same location as
P.” ;

2.3.b.iv

omit the words after paragraph (b);

2.3.c

after subsection (6) insert—

2.3.c.7

For the purposes of subsection (6) the following matters are to be
disregarded—

2.3.c.7.a

the extent (if any) to which a person is unable to see or hear by reason of
any impairment of eyesight or hearing;

2.3.c.7.b

the effect of any direction or order which provides for one person taking part
in a hearing to be prevented by means of a screen or other arrangement from
seeing another person taking part in the hearing.

##### Consequential amendments of other enactments

3

3.1

The Criminal Appeal Act 1968 is amended as follows.

3.2

In section 22, omit subsections (4) to (6).

3.3

In section 23, omit subsection (5).

3.4

In section 31—

3.4.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (a) insert—

3.4.a.aza

the powers under sections  51  and  52  of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 as
they are exercisable in relation to appeals to the criminal division of the
Court of Appeal and preliminary and incidental proceedings;

;

3.4.b

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (ca).

3.5

In section 31A—

3.5.a

in the heading, omit “under Part 1”;

3.5.b

in subsection (2), omit paragraph (aa);

3.5.c

after subsection (2) insert—

3.5.c.2A

The registrar may exercise the powers under sections  51  and  52  of the
Criminal Justice Act 2003 as they are exercisable in relation to appeals to
the criminal division of the Court of Appeal and preliminary and incidental
proceedings.

;

3.5.d

in subsection (4), after “subsection (2)” insert  “or  (2A) ” .

##### 

4

4.1

The Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 is amended as follows.

4.2

In section 46ZA(3)—

4.2.a

in paragraph (b)—

4.2.a.i

for the words from “proceedings” to “person” substitute  “the proceedings
referred to in section 47(3)(b)(i)” ;

4.2.a.ii

for “that section” substitute  “those proceedings” ;

4.2.b

in paragraph (d), for “such a direction” substitute  “a direction of the sort
referred to in section 47(3)(b)(ii)” .

4.3

In section 46A(1ZA)(b), for the word from “proceedings” to the end substitute
“the proceedings referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of that provision” .

4.4

In section 47(3)(b), for sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) substitute—

4.4.i

proceedings held for the purposes of section  51  of the Criminal Justice Act
2003 (directions for live links in criminal proceedings) so far as that
section applies to preliminary hearings (within the meaning of that section),
and

4.4.ii

any such hearing in relation to which a direction under that section is given
requiring or permitting the person on bail to take part through a live audio
link or a live video link (within the meaning of that section);

.

##### 

5

In section 32 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988—

5.a

in the heading, at the end insert  “when witness abroad: service courts” ;

5.b

before subsection (1) insert—

5.b.A1

This section applies only so far as provided by an order under paragraph 8 of
Schedule 13.

##### 

6

6.1

The Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act 1999 is amended as follows.

6.2

In Part 2, in the heading of Chapter 1A, at the end insert  “: service courts”
.

6.3

In section 33A (use of live links for evidence of the accused), in subsection
(1), for the words from “any” to the end substitute  “proceedings in a service
court against a person for an offence, if and so far as provided by an order
under section 61(1).”

##### 

7

7.1

In section 29 of the Crime (International Co-operation) Act 2003—

7.1.a

in the heading, for “television” substitute  “video or audio” ;

7.1.b

in subsection (1), for the words from “section 32(1A)” to “apply” substitute
“section 51 of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (live links in criminal
proceedings) to apply in relation to witnesses who are outside the United
Kingdom” .

7.2

The Evidence Through Television Links (England and Wales) Order 2013 ( S.I.
2013/1598 ) is revoked.

##### 

8

In the Sentencing Code, omit section 391.

##### 

9

In section 26 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (breach of domestic abuse
protection notice), for subsection (8) substitute—

9.8

The requirement in subsection (2) to bring a person before the court is
satisfied if the person appears before the court through a live video link or
live audio link (within the meaning given by section 56 of the Criminal
Justice Act 2003).

Minor amendments in relation to the sentencing consolidation

Section 204

##### Amendments to the Sentencing Act 2020

1

The Sentencing Act 2020 is amended as follows.

2

In section 108(4), for “Part” substitute  “Chapter” .

3

In the table in section 122(1) (standard scale of fines for summary offences)—

3.a

in the heading of the second column, for “1 October 1992” substitute  “1 May
1984” ;

3.b

between the second and third columns, insert—

Offence committed on or after 1 May 1984 and before 1 October 1992 £50 £100
£400 £1,000 £2,000

4

In section 166(7), for “paragraph” substitute  “entry” .

5

In section 293(2)(d), for “(“a progress report”) substitute “(a “progress
report”)”.

6

In section 414(6), in each of paragraphs (a) and (b), for “by the Armed Forces
Act 2006” substitute  “by or under the Armed Forces Act 2006” .

7

7.1

Schedule 5 is amended as follows.

7.2

In paragraph 7(2)(b), after “before a youth court” insert  “or, if the
offender is aged 18 or over, a magistrates’ court other than a youth court.”

7.3

In paragraph 9—

7.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1), after “a youth court” insert  “or other magistrates’
court” ;

7.3.b

in sub-paragraph (6), for “youth court” substitute  “magistrates’ court” .

8

In Schedule 16, in paragraph 11(4)(b), for first “by” substitute  “be” .

9

In Schedule 21, in paragraph 4(1)—

9.a

omit the word “and” at the end of paragraph (b);

9.b

at the end of paragraph (c) insert  “and” .

10

10.1

Schedule 22 is amended as follows.

10.2

In paragraph 27—

10.2.a

in sub-paragraph (1)(b), in the inserted paragraph (aa), after “Schedule 22”
insert  “to the Sentencing Act 2020” .

10.2.b

in sub-paragraph (3), after “Schedule 22” insert  “to the Sentencing Act 2020”
.

10.3

In paragraph 34, in the opening words, for “omit” substitute  “in” .

10.4

In paragraph 43—

10.4.a

the words from “, in subsection (2)” to the end become sub-paragraph (a);

10.4.b

after that sub-paragraph insert—

10.4.b.b

in subsection (3), at the beginning insert “If the offender was aged 21 or
over when convicted,

.

11

In Schedule 24, omit paragraph 154(f).

##### Amendments to other enactments

###### Criminal Justice Act 2003 (c. 44)

12

In section 237(1B) of the Criminal Justice Act 2003, after paragraph (a)
insert—

12.aa

references to a sentence of detention under section 262 of the Sentencing Code
include a sentence of detention in a young offender institution under section
210B of the Armed Forces Act 2006;

.

###### Counter-Terrorism and Sentencing Act 

13

In Schedule 13 to the Counter-Terrorism and Sentencing Act 2021, omit
paragraph 44.

