Title: Professional Qualifications Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/20

## Professional Qualifications Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Recognition of overseas qualifications

#### Power to provide for individuals to be treated as having UK qualifications

1

1.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make provision for
individuals who meet the condition in subsection  (2)  or  (3)  and any other
specified condition to be treated, for the purpose of determining whether they
are entitled to practise a specified regulated profession in the United
Kingdom or a part of it, as if they have a specified UK qualification or
specified UK experience.

1.2

An individual meets the condition in this subsection if—

1.2.a

the individual has overseas qualifications or overseas experience, and

1.2.b

a specified regulator of the specified regulated profession has made a
determination that the individual has substantially the same knowledge and
skills, to substantially the same standard, as are demonstrated by the
specified UK qualification or the specified UK experience.

1.3

An individual meets the condition in this subsection if—

1.3.a

the individual has overseas qualifications or overseas experience,

1.3.b

a specified regulator of the specified regulated profession has made a
determination—

1.3.b.i

that the individual does not have substantially the same knowledge and skills,
to substantially the same standard, as are demonstrated by the specified UK
qualification or the specified UK experience, and

1.3.b.ii

that the deficiency mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) could be made up by the
individual obtaining such further qualifications or experience or meeting such
further condition as is set out in the determination, and

1.3.c

the individual has obtained the further qualifications or experience or has
met the condition (whether before or after the making of the determination
mentioned in paragraph  (b) ).

1.4

For the purposes of subsections  (1)  to  (3) —

1.4.a

a condition may be specified under subsection  (1)  whether or not it is
connected to the specified UK qualification or specified UK experience
concerned, and

1.4.b

a determination mentioned in subsection  (2)(b)  or  (3)(b)(i)  may be made—

1.4.b.i

on the basis only of the overseas qualifications or overseas experience
concerned, or

1.4.b.ii

on such other basis as the specified regulator considers appropriate (such as
on the basis of the overseas qualifications or overseas experience concerned
together with the results of any test or other assessment given by any
person).

1.5

Regulations under this section may include provision for, and in connection
with, the making by an individual of an application for a determination
mentioned in subsection  (2) (b)  or  (3) (b) .

1.6

The provision that may be made by virtue of subsection  (5)  includes—

1.6.a

provision as to the form and manner of an application;

1.6.b

provision for an application to be combined with an application under other
legislation;

1.6.c

provision as to the information to be included in an application;

1.6.d

provision as to the documents to accompany an application;

1.6.e

provision for fees to be paid in connection with an application;

1.6.f

provision requiring a specified regulator to have regard to guidance issued
from time to time by a specified person when determining an application;

1.6.g

provision as to the other duties of a specified regulator in connection with
an application;

1.6.h

provision as to the powers of a specified regulator in connection with an
application;

1.6.i

provision as to appeals against the determination of an application.

1.7

A UK qualification or UK experience may be specified by reference to—

1.7.a

its having been accredited or otherwise approved in a specified manner;

1.7.b

its having been issued by a body or obtained at an institution accredited or
otherwise approved in a specified manner.

#### Power conferred by section 1 exercisable only if necessary to meet demand

2

2.1

Regulations under section 1 may not be made in respect of a regulated
profession unless the appropriate national authority is satisfied that the
condition in subsection  (2)  is met.

2.2

The condition is that it is necessary to make the regulations for the purpose
of enabling the demand for the services of the profession in the United
Kingdom, or in the part of it to which the regulations relate, to be met
without unreasonable delays or charges.

2.3

This section does not apply to regulations under section 1 in so far as they—

2.3.a

modify earlier regulations under that section without adding to the
professions, or the parts of the United Kingdom, to which the earlier
regulations relate, or

2.3.b

make provision authorised by section 13 (1)(c) .

#### Implementation of international recognition agreements

3

3.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make such provision as
the authority considers appropriate for the purpose of, or in connection with,
implementing any international recognition agreement to which the United
Kingdom is a party.

3.2

The provision that may be made by regulations under this section includes—

3.2.a

provision conferring functions on any person, including a discretion but not
including a power to make subordinate legislation;

3.2.b

provision for the sharing of information;

3.2.c

provision for the charging of fees.

3.3

Regulations under this section may not impose a duty requiring, or confer a
power authorising, the disclosure of information where the disclosure would
(taking the duty or power into account) contravene the data protection
legislation.

3.4

An “ international recognition agreement ” means so much of any international
agreement as provides for, or relates to, the recognition of overseas
qualifications or overseas experience for the purpose of determining whether
individuals are entitled to practise a regulated profession in the United
Kingdom or a part of it.

3.5

The reference in this section to an international recognition agreement to
which the United Kingdom is a party includes a reference to such an agreement
as modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with any provision
of it.

#### Authorisation to enter into regulator recognition agreements

4

4.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make such provision as
the authority considers appropriate for the purpose of, or in connection with,
authorising a regulator of a regulated profession to enter into regulator
recognition agreements.

4.2

A “ regulator recognition agreement ” means an agreement that—

4.2.a

is between—

4.2.a.i

a regulator of a regulated profession, and

4.2.a.ii

an overseas regulator of a corresponding profession practised in a country or
territory outside the United Kingdom, and

4.2.b

provides for, or relates to, either or both of the following matters—

4.2.b.i

the recognition of UK qualifications or UK experience for the purpose of
determining whether individuals are entitled to practise the corresponding
profession in that country or territory, and

4.2.b.ii

the recognition of qualifications or experience obtained in that country or
territory for the purpose of determining whether individuals are entitled to
practise the regulated profession in the United Kingdom or a part of it.

4.3

For the purposes of subsection  (2) —

4.3.a

qualifications are obtained in the country or territory mentioned in that
subsection if they are issued by a body that is based in that country or
territory, and

4.3.b

experience is obtained in the country or territory mentioned in that
subsection if it is obtained mainly in that country or territory.

4.4

In subsection  (2) —

      “ corresponding profession ” means a profession that ordinarily consists
of activity that is the same as, or substantially corresponds to, activity
that ordinarily comprises the practice of the regulated profession mentioned
in that subsection;           “ overseas regulator ”, in relation to the
corresponding profession mentioned in that subsection, means a person
exercising functions that relate to the regulation of the profession in the
country or territory mentioned in that subsection.

#### Revocation of general EU system of recognition of overseas qualifications

5

5.1

The European Union (Recognition of Professional Qualifications) Regulations
2015 ( S.I. 2015/2059 ) are revoked.

5.2

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make such modifications
of legislation as the appropriate national authority considers to be
appropriate in consequence of subsection  (1) .

#### Revocation of other  

6

6.1

The appropriate national authority may by regulations modify any   assimilated
recognition law so as to cause it to cease to have effect to any extent.

6.2

“ Assimilated   recognition law ” means   assimilated   law that provides for,
or relates to, the recognition of overseas qualifications or overseas
experience for the purpose of determining whether individuals are entitled to
practise a regulated profession in the United Kingdom or a part of it.

### Assistance and information

#### Assistance centre

7

7.1

The Secretary of State must make arrangements for another person (“the
assistance centre”) to—

7.1.a

provide advice and assistance relating to the entry requirements for regulated
professions to—

7.1.a.i

individuals seeking to practise a regulated profession in the United Kingdom
or a part of it, and

7.1.a.ii

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate,

7.1.b

provide advice and assistance relating to the entry requirements for overseas
professions to—

7.1.b.i

individuals with UK qualifications or UK experience seeking to practise an
overseas profession in a country or territory outside the United Kingdom, and

7.1.b.ii

such other persons as the Secretary of State considers appropriate, and

7.1.c

publish advice and information relating to—

7.1.c.i

the entry requirements for regulated professions, and

7.1.c.ii

the entry requirements for overseas professions.

7.2

A regulator of a regulated profession must provide to the assistance centre
any information that—

7.2.a

is held by the regulator of the regulated profession, and

7.2.b

is requested by the assistance centre for the purposes of enabling it to
discharge its functions under the arrangements.

7.3

The assistance centre must provide to the Secretary of State any information
relating to the discharge of its functions under the arrangements that—

7.3.a

is held by the assistance centre, and

7.3.b

is requested by the Secretary of State.

7.4

A disclosure of information required under this section does not breach—

7.4.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the person making the disclosure, or

7.4.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

7.5

Nothing in this section requires the making of a disclosure which contravenes
the data protection legislation (save that the duties imposed by this section
are to be taken into account in determining whether any disclosure contravenes
that legislation).

7.6

In this section—

      “ the entry requirements ” means—         in relation to a regulated
profession, the requirements as to qualifications, experience or otherwise
that must be met by an individual to become entitled to practise the
profession in the United Kingdom or a part of it;           in relation to an
overseas profession, the requirements as to qualifications, experience or
otherwise that must be met by an individual to become entitled to practise the
profession in the country or territory concerned;                 “ overseas
profession ” means a profession practised in a country or territory outside
the United Kingdom.

#### Duty of regulator to publish information on requirements to practise

8

8.1

A regulator of a regulated profession must—

8.1.a

publish the information mentioned in subsection  (2)  on a website that—

8.1.a.i

is maintained by the regulator,

8.1.a.ii

is publicly accessible, and

8.1.a.iii

is easy to use, and

8.1.b

keep that information up to date.

8.2

The information is—

8.2.a

information as to the qualifications or experience an individual must obtain
to become entitled to practise the profession (disregarding any exception to
the need to obtain those qualifications or that experience);

8.2.b

information as to any application process by which an individual who has not
obtained the qualifications or experience mentioned in paragraph  (a)  may
seek to become entitled to practise the profession in reliance on overseas
qualifications or overseas experience;

8.2.c

information as to any application process to which section 26 of the United
Kingdom Internal Market Act 2020 applies by which an individual who has not
obtained the qualifications or experience mentioned in paragraph  (a)  may
seek to become entitled to practise the profession in reliance on UK
qualifications or UK experience;

8.2.d

in a case where there is an application process of a sort mentioned in
paragraph  (b)  or  (c) , information as to—

8.2.d.i

the number of individuals who have sought to become entitled to practise the
profession by means of the process;

8.2.d.ii

the number of individuals who have become entitled to practise the profession
by means of the process; and

8.2.d.iii

the qualifications or experience held by individuals who have become entitled
to practise the profession by means of the process;

8.2.e

information as to any requirement for an individual to be registered, licensed
or similarly authorised in order to become entitled to practise the
profession;

8.2.f

information as to any other requirement that must be met by an individual to
become entitled to practise the profession;

8.2.g

information as to any requirement as to training, learning or otherwise that
must be met by an individual to continue to be entitled to practise the
profession;

8.2.h

information as to how any requirement mentioned in paragraph  (g)  may be met
(such as information as to the institutions from which any training or
learning may be obtained);

8.2.i

information as to any fees payable to the regulator by individuals seeking to
become or to continue to be entitled to practise the profession (such as fees
payable on making an application to be registered to practise the profession);
and

8.2.j

such other information relating to the regulation of the profession as may be
specified by the appropriate national authority.

8.3

Where—

8.3.a

there is no application process of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(b) ,

8.3.b

there is no application process of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(c) ,

8.3.c

there is no requirement of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(e) ,

8.3.d

there is no requirement of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(f) ,

8.3.e

there is no requirement of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(g) , or

8.3.f

there are no fees of a sort mentioned in subsection  (2)(i) ,

the regulator mentioned in subsection (1) must publish a statement that this
is the case on the website mentioned in that subsection.

8.4

Where the regulator mentioned in subsection  (1)  is not the only regulator of
the regulated profession—

8.4.a

that regulator must publish on the website mentioned in subsection  (1)  a
statement that identifies the other regulator,

8.4.b

the reference in subsection  (2)(i)  to that regulator is to be read as
including a reference to the other regulator,

8.4.c

anything done by that regulator is to be taken for the purposes of this
section to have also been done by the other regulator, and

8.4.d

the website mentioned in subsection  (1)  is to be taken for the purposes of
this section to also be maintained by the other regulator.

8.5

Where the regulatory functions of the regulator mentioned in subsection (1)
are exercisable throughout the United Kingdom, the references in subsection
(2) to becoming or continuing to be entitled to practise the regulated
profession are to be read as references to becoming or continuing to be
entitled to practise the regulated profession in the United Kingdom.

8.6

Where the regulatory functions of the regulator mentioned in subsection (1)
are exercisable only in a part of the United Kingdom—

8.6.a

the references in subsection  (2)  to becoming or continuing to be entitled to
practise the regulated profession are to be read as references to becoming or
continuing to be entitled to practise the regulated profession in that part of
the United Kingdom, and

8.6.b

the reference in subsection  (4)  to a case where that regulator is not the
only regulator of the regulated profession is to be read as a reference to a
case where that regulator is not the only regulator of the regulated
profession with regulatory functions exercisable in that part of the United
Kingdom.

8.7

In this section “ regulatory functions ” means functions under legislation
that relate to the regulation of the regulated profession mentioned in
subsection  (1) .

#### Duty of regulator to provide information to regulator in another part of UK

9

9.1

This section applies where—

9.1.a

an individual is, or has been, entitled to practise a regulated profession in
a part of the United Kingdom, and

9.1.b

the individual is seeking to practise a corresponding regulated profession in
another part of the United Kingdom.

9.2

A regulator of the regulated profession mentioned in subsection  (1)(a)  (“the
first regulator”) must provide to a regulator of the corresponding regulated
profession mentioned in subsection  (1)(b)  (“the second regulator”) any
information—

9.2.a

that is held by the first regulator,

9.2.b

that relates to the individual,

9.2.c

that—

9.2.c.i

is requested by the second regulator, or

9.2.c.ii

is requested by the individual to be provided to the second regulator, and

9.2.d

that is required by the second regulator for the purpose of determining any
question relating to the entitlement of the individual to practise the
corresponding regulated profession in the part of the United Kingdom mentioned
in subsection  (1)(b) .

9.3

A disclosure of information under this section does not breach—

9.3.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the first regulator, or

9.3.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

9.4

Nothing in this section requires the making of a disclosure which contravenes
the data protection legislation (save that the duty imposed by this section is
to be taken into account in determining whether any disclosure contravenes
that legislation).

9.5

In this section, “ corresponding regulated profession ” means a regulated
profession that ordinarily consists of activity that is the same as, or
substantially corresponds to, activity that ordinarily comprises the practice
of the regulated profession mentioned in subsection  (1)(a) .

#### Duty of regulator to provide information to overseas regulator

10

10.1

This section applies where—

10.1.a

an individual is, or has been, entitled to practise a regulated profession in
the United Kingdom or a part of the United Kingdom, and

10.1.b

the individual is seeking to practise a corresponding profession in a country
or territory outside the United Kingdom.

10.2

A regulator of the regulated profession must provide to an overseas regulator
of the corresponding profession any information—

10.2.a

that is held by the regulator of the regulated profession,

10.2.b

that relates to the individual,

10.2.c

that—

10.2.c.i

is requested by the overseas regulator, or

10.2.c.ii

is requested by the individual to be provided to the overseas regulator, and

10.2.d

is required by the overseas regulator for the purpose of determining any
question relating to the entitlement of the individual to practise the
corresponding profession in the country or territory mentioned in subsection
(1)(b) .

10.3

But the duty imposed by subsection  (2)  does not apply by reason of a request
by the overseas regulator unless it is made with the permission of the
individual.

10.4

The appropriate national authority may by regulations make such provision as
the authority considers appropriate in connection with the duty imposed by
subsection  (2)  (including provision limiting the duty).

10.5

The regulations may in particular provide that—

10.5.a

the duty applies only in relation to information of a specified description;

10.5.b

the duty applies only if the request by the overseas regulator or the
individual is made in a specified manner;

10.5.c

the duty applies by reason of a request by the overseas regulator only if the
request is accompanied by specified evidence that it is made with the
permission of the individual;

10.5.d

the duty applies only on the payment of a specified fee, or a fee determined
in a specified manner, to the regulator of the regulated profession;

10.5.e

the duty is to be complied with within a specified period.

10.6

A disclosure of information under this section does not breach—

10.6.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the regulator of the regulated
profession, or

10.6.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

10.7

Nothing in this section requires the making of a disclosure which contravenes
the data protection legislation (save that the duty imposed by this section is
to be taken into account in determining whether any disclosure contravenes
that legislation).

10.8

In this section—

      “ corresponding profession ” means a profession that ordinarily consists
of activity that is the same as, or substantially corresponds to, activity
that ordinarily comprises the practice of the regulated profession mentioned
in subsection  (1)(a) ;           “ overseas regulator ”, in relation to a
corresponding profession, means any person having functions under the law of a
country or territory outside the United Kingdom that relate to the regulation
of the corresponding profession in that country or territory.

### Architects

#### Amendments to the Architects Act 1997

11

11.1

The Architects Act 1997 is amended as follows.

11.2

In section 2 (the Registrar), after subsection (3) insert—

11.2.3ZA

The Registrar may delegate any of those functions to a member of the staff of
the Board who is nominated by the Board for the purpose of this subsection.

11.3

In section 3 (the Register), after subsection (4) insert—

11.3.4A

The Board may exclude the whole or any part of the regular business address of
a registered person from the published version of the Register if—

11.3.4A.a

the registered person has applied in the prescribed manner requesting the
address or part of it to be excluded from the published version, and

11.3.4A.b

the Board is satisfied that the address is also a residential address of the
registered person.

11.4

In section 4 (registration: general)—

11.4.a

after subsection (1) insert—

11.4.a.1A

But the Board may by rules provide that a person who satisfies subsection
(1)(a) by reason of holding overseas qualifications or gaining overseas
practical experience is entitled to be registered only if the person has
undertaken such training, passed such test or met such other condition as is
prescribed.

,

11.4.b

in subsection (3)—

11.4.b.i

in the words before paragraph (a) omit “prescribing”,

11.4.b.ii

in paragraph (a) at the beginning insert  “prescribing” ,

11.4.b.iii

after paragraph (a) (but before “or”) insert—

11.4.b.iii.aa

making rules under subsection (1A);

, and

11.4.b.iv

in paragraph (b) at the beginning insert  “prescribing” , and

11.4.c

after subsection (7) insert—

11.4.c.8

In this section—

“ overseas practical experience ” means practical experience obtained mainly
outside the United Kingdom; “ overseas qualification ” means a qualification
issued by a body that is based outside the United Kingdom.

11.4.c.9

For the purposes of subsection (8) a body is based—

11.4.c.9.a

where its registered office is,

11.4.c.9.b

if it does not have a registered office, where its head office is, or

11.4.c.9.c

if it does not have a registered office or a head office, where its principal
place of operation is.

11.5

In Schedule 1 (the Board and its Committees) in paragraph 18(2)(b) (functions
which may not be discharged by a committee)   for “4(2)” substitute “4(1A) or
(2)”. .

### Crown application

#### Crown application

12

This Act binds the Crown.

### Regulations

#### General provision about regulations

13

13.1

Subject to subsections  (2)  to  (4) , any power to make regulations under
this Act includes power—

13.1.a

to modify legislation,

13.1.b

to make different provision for different purposes, and

13.1.c

to make supplementary, incidental, consequential, transitional, transitory or
saving provision.

13.2

The power to make regulations under section 8 does not include power to modify
legislation, other than earlier regulations made under that section.

13.3

A power to make regulations under section 10 or 21 does not include power to
amend, repeal or revoke legislation, other than earlier regulations made under
either of those sections.

13.4

Subsection  (1)(b)  and  (c)  does not apply in relation to a power to make
regulations under section 21.

#### Protection of regulator autonomy

14

14.1

The appropriate national authority may make regulations under section 1, 3 or
4 only if satisfied that the conditions in subsections  (2)  and  (3)  are
met.

14.2

The condition in this subsection is that the regulations do not remove the
ability of any regulator of a regulated profession to prevent individuals who
are unfit to practise the profession from doing so.

14.3

The condition in this subsection is that the regulations will not have a
material adverse effect on any regulated profession in terms of the knowledge,
skills or experience of the individuals practising it.

14.4

The reference in subsection  (2)  to individuals who are unfit to practise the
profession is a reference to individuals who are unfit to practise the
profession by reason of their character, a lack of knowledge, skills or
experience or otherwise.

14.5

A reference in this section to practising a profession includes a reference to
undertaking activities that comprise the practise of the profession or using a
title associated with the practise of the profession.

#### Consultation with regulators

15

Before making regulations under section 1, 3 or 4, the appropriate national
authority must consult a regulator of a regulated profession if the authority
considers that—

15.a

the regulator is likely to be affected by the regulations, or

15.b

it is otherwise appropriate to consult the regulator.

#### Authority by whom regulations may be made

16

16.1

In this Act “ appropriate national authority ” means the Secretary of State or
the Lord Chancellor, subject as follows.

16.2

The Welsh Ministers are also an appropriate national authority in relation to
regulations under this Act which contain only provision which would be within
the legislative competence of Senedd Cymru if contained in an Act of the
Senedd (ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown).

16.3

The Scottish Ministers are also an appropriate national authority in relation
to regulations under this Act which contain only provision which would be
within the legislative competence of the Scottish Parliament if contained in
an Act of that Parliament.

16.4

A Northern Ireland department is also an appropriate national authority in
relation to regulations under this Act which contain only provision which, if
contained in an Act of the Northern Ireland Assembly—

16.4.a

would be within the legislative competence of the Assembly, and

16.4.b

would not require the consent of the Secretary of State.

16.5

The consent of a Minister of the Crown is required before any provision is
made by the Welsh Ministers in regulations under this Act so far as that
provision, if contained in an Act of Senedd Cymru, would require the consent
of a Minister of the Crown.

16.6

In this section “ Minister of the Crown ” has the same meaning as in the
Ministers of the Crown Act 1975.

16.7

In Schedule 7B to the Government of Wales Act 2006 (general restrictions on
legislative competence of Senedd Cymru) in paragraph 11(6)(b) (exceptions to
restrictions relating to Ministers of the Crown)—

16.7.a

omit the “or” at the end of paragraph (vii), and

16.7.b

after paragraph (viii) insert

; or

16.7.b.ix

the Professional Qualifications Act 2022

.

#### Consultation with devolved authorities

17

17.1

Before making regulations under this Act, the Secretary of State or the Lord
Chancellor must consult—

17.1.a

the Welsh Ministers, to the extent that the regulations contain provision
which could also be made by the Welsh Ministers by virtue of section 16(2)
(ignoring any requirement for the consent of a Minister of the Crown under
section 16(5));

17.1.b

the Scottish Ministers, to the extent that the regulations contain provision
which could also be made by the Scottish Ministers by virtue of section 16(3);

17.1.c

a Northern Ireland department, to the extent that the regulations contain
provision which could also be made by a Northern Ireland department by virtue
of section 16(4).

17.2

The Northern Ireland department which is to be consulted in accordance with
subsection (1)(c) is such Northern Ireland department as the Secretary of
State or (as the case may be) the Lord Chancellor considers appropriate having
regard to the provision which is to be contained in the regulations concerned.

17.3

Before making regulations under this Act in relation to which the Secretary of
State or the Lord Chancellor has consulted a devolved authority (or more than
one devolved authority) in accordance with subsection  (1) , the Secretary of
State or (as the case may be) the Lord Chancellor must publish a report on the
consultation.

17.4

But the Secretary of State or (as the case may be) the Lord Chancellor may not
publish the report unless either—

17.4.a

the devolved authority concerned (or, if more than one, each of them) has
agreed to the description included in the report for the purposes of
subsection (5)(a), or

17.4.b

there is no such agreement but the period of 30 days, beginning with the day
on which a draft of the report was first sent to the devolved authority
concerned (or, if more than one, the last of them), has expired.

17.5

The report on the consultation must include—

17.5.a

a description of—

17.5.a.i

the process undertaken in order to comply with subsection  (1) , and

17.5.a.ii

any agreement, objection or other views expressed as part of that process by
the devolved authority (or devolved authorities) concerned, and

17.5.b

an explanation of whether and how such views have been taken into account in
the regulations (including, in a case where the Secretary of State or (as the
case may be) the Lord Chancellor proposes to make the regulations despite an
objection, an explanation of the reasons for doing so).

17.6

The duty to consult in subsection (1) does not apply in relation to any
revision of the regulations which arises from the consultation; and, for the
purposes of subsection (4)(b), the draft report need not be identical to the
published report for the period of 30 days to begin.

17.7

In this section “ devolved authority ” means the Scottish Ministers, the Welsh
Ministers or a Northern Ireland department.

#### Parliamentary procedure

18

18.1

Regulations under this Act are subject to the affirmative resolution procedure
where they contain provision amending, repealing or revoking primary
legislation  ....

18.2

Otherwise, regulations under this Act are subject to the negative resolution
procedure.

18.3

Any power conferred on the Secretary of State, the Lord Chancellor or the
Welsh Ministers to make regulations under this Act is exercisable by statutory
instrument.

18.4

For regulations made under this Act by the Scottish Ministers, see section 27
of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10)
(Scottish statutory instruments).

18.5

Any power conferred on a Northern Ireland department to make regulations under
this Act is exercisable by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory
Rules (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 ( S.I. 1979/1573 (N.I. 12) ) (and not by
statutory instrument).

18.6

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the affirmative resolution
procedure, the regulations—

18.6.a

if made by the Secretary of State or the Lord Chancellor, may not be made
unless a draft of the statutory instrument containing them has been laid
before, and approved by a resolution of, each House of Parliament;

18.6.b

if made by the Welsh Ministers, may not be made unless a draft of the
statutory instrument containing them has been laid before, and approved by a
resolution of, Senedd Cymru;

18.6.c

if made by the Scottish Ministers, are subject to the affirmative procedure
(see section 29 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform (Scotland) Act
2010 (asp 10) );

18.6.d

if made by a Northern Ireland department, may not be made unless a draft of
the regulations has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the
Northern Ireland Assembly.

18.7

Where regulations under this Act are subject to the negative resolution
procedure—

18.7.a

if made by the Secretary of State or the Lord Chancellor, the statutory
instrument containing them is subject to annulment in pursuance of a
resolution of either House of Parliament;

18.7.b

if made by the Welsh Ministers, the statutory instrument containing them is
subject to annulment in pursuance of a resolution of Senedd Cymru;

18.7.c

if made by the Scottish Ministers, the regulations are subject to the negative
procedure (see section 28 of the Interpretation and Legislative Reform
(Scotland) Act  2010 (asp 10) );

18.7.d

if made by a Northern Ireland department, the regulations are subject to
negative resolution within the meaning of section 41(6) of the Interpretation
Act (Northern Ireland) 1954 as if they were a statutory instrument within the
meaning of that Act.

18.8

Any provision that may be made in regulations under this Act subject to the
negative resolution procedure may be made in regulations subject to the
affirmative resolution procedure.

18.9

This section does not apply to regulations under section 21.

### Final provisions

#### Interpretation

19

19.1

In this Act—

“ appropriate national authority ” has the meaning given by section 16; “ data
protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data Protection Act
2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act); “ legislation ” means primary
legislation, subordinate legislation and   assimilated direct   legislation; “
modify ” includes amend, repeal or revoke; “ overseas experience ” means
experience obtained mainly outside the United Kingdom; “ overseas
qualification ” means a qualification issued by a body that is based outside
the United Kingdom; “ part of the United Kingdom ” means England, Wales,
Scotland or Northern Ireland; “ primary legislation ” means— an Act of
Parliament, an Order in Council made in exercise of Her Majesty’s Prerogative,
an Act or Measure of Senedd Cymru, an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or
Northern Ireland legislation; “ profession ” includes— an occupation or trade,
and any subdivision of, or distinct specialism within, a profession; “
qualification ” means any record, issued by a body whose ordinary activities
include the issuing of such records, of having attained a particular standard
following a course of study or training; “ regulated profession ” means a
profession that is regulated by law in the United Kingdom or a part of it (see
subsection  (3) ); “ regulator ”, in relation to a regulated profession, means
a person having functions under legislation that relate to the regulation of
the profession in the United Kingdom or, as the case may be, in a part of it
in which the profession is regulated by law (see subsection  (3) ); “
specified ” means specified in regulations; “ subordinate legislation ” means
an instrument made under primary legislation or under   assimilated direct
legislation; “ UK experience ” means experience obtained mainly in the United
Kingdom; “ UK qualification ” means a qualification issued by a body that is
based in the United Kingdom.

19.2

In this Act, a reference to entitlement to practise a profession includes a
reference to entitlement to—

19.2.a

undertake activities that comprise the practice of the profession,

19.2.b

use a particular title associated with the practice of the profession, or

19.2.c

be registered, licensed or similarly authorised, where that is required to
undertake such activities or use such a title.

19.3

For the purposes of this Act, a profession is regulated by law in the United
Kingdom, or in a part of it, if by reason of legislation—

19.3.a

individuals are entitled to practise the profession in the United Kingdom, or
in that part of it, only if they have certain qualifications or experience, or

19.3.b

individuals are entitled to practise the profession in the United Kingdom, or
in that part of it, only if—

19.3.b.i

they have certain qualifications or experience, or

19.3.b.ii

they meet an alternative condition or requirement.

19.4

For the purposes of this Act, a body is based—

19.4.a

where its registered office is,

19.4.b

if it does not have a registered office, where its head office is, or

19.4.c

if it does not have a registered office or a head office, where its principal
place of operation is.

#### Extent

20

This Act extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Commencement

21

21.1

The following provisions come into force on the day on which this Act is
passed—

21.1.a

sections 1 to 4;

21.1.b

section 5 (2) ;

21.1.c

section 6;

21.1.d

section 8 so far as it confers power to make regulations;

21.1.e

section 10 so far as it confers power to make regulations;

21.1.f

sections 12 to 20;

21.1.g

this section;

21.1.h

section 22.

21.2

Subsections  (1) ,  (2)  and  (3)  of section 11 come into force at the end of
the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which this Act is passed.

21.3

Section 8, so far as not already in force by virtue of subsection  (1) , comes
into force at the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the day on
which this Act is passed.

21.4

The following provisions come into force on such day as the Secretary of State
may by regulations appoint—

21.4.a

section 5 (1) ;

21.4.b

section 7;

21.4.c

section 9;

21.4.d

section 10 so far as not already in force by virtue of subsection  (1) ;

21.4.e

subsections  (4)  and  (5)  of section 11.

21.5

Different days may be appointed for different purposes.

21.6

The Secretary of State may by regulations make transitional, transitory or
saving provision in connection with the coming into force of a provision
mentioned in subsection  (4) .

21.7

The power to make regulations under subsection  (6)  includes power to make
different provision for different purposes.

21.8

Regulations under this section are to be made by statutory instrument.

#### Short title

22

This Act may be cited as the Professional Qualifications Act 2022.

