Title: Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-02-01
Description: Provide protection from stalking, and from threatening or abusive behaviour, and for related purposes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nia/2022/17

## Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022

      BE IT ENACTED by being passed by the Northern Ireland Assembly and
assented to by Her Majesty as follows:

### Offences

#### Offence of stalking

1

1.1

A person (“ A ”) commits an offence (in this Act referred to as the offence of
stalking) where—

1.1.a

A engages in a course of conduct,

1.1.b

A’s course of conduct—

1.1.b.i

causes another person (“ B ”) to suffer fear, alarm or substantial distress,
or

1.1.b.ii

is such that a reasonable person, or a reasonable person who has any
particular knowledge of B that A has, would consider to be likely to cause B
to suffer fear, alarm or substantial distress, and

1.1.c

at least one of the further conditions applies.

1.2

The further conditions are—

1.2.a

that A engages in the course of conduct with the intention of causing B to
suffer fear, alarm or substantial distress;

1.2.b

that A knows, or ought in all the circumstances to have known, that engaging
in the course of conduct would be likely to cause B to suffer fear, alarm or
substantial distress.

1.3

If—

1.3.a

A is a UK national or is habitually resident in Northern Ireland, and

1.3.b

A’s course of conduct consists of or includes conduct occurring in a country,
or territory, outside the United Kingdom,

the course of conduct is to be treated for the purposes of this section as if
it occurred in Northern Ireland.

1.4

In subsections (1) to (3) and this subsection—

      “ conduct ” means—         following B or any other person,
contacting, or attempting to contact, B or any other person by any means,
publishing any statement or other material—         relating or purporting to
relate to B or to any other person, or           purporting to originate from
B or from any other person,                 monitoring the use by B or by any
other person of the internet, email or any other form of electronic
communication,           entering any premises,           loitering in any
place (whether public or private),           interfering with any property in
the possession of B or of any other person,           giving anything to B or
to any other person or leaving anything where it may be found by, given to or
brought to the attention of B or any other person,           watching or
spying on B or any other person, or           acting in any other way that a
reasonable person, or a reasonable person who has any particular knowledge of
B that A has, would expect would cause B to suffer fear, alarm or substantial
distress;                 “course of conduct” involves conduct on two or more
occasions;           “ substantial distress ” means distress that has a
substantial adverse effect on B’s day to day activities.

1.5

It is a defence for a person charged with the offence of stalking to show that
the course of conduct—

1.5.a

was authorised by virtue of any statutory provision or rule of law,

1.5.b

was engaged in for the purpose of preventing or detecting crime, or

1.5.c

was reasonable in the particular circumstances.

1.6

A person who commits the offence of stalking is liable—

1.6.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years
or a fine (or both), or

1.6.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

1.7

In proceedings in respect of a charge against a person of the offence of
stalking, the person may be convicted of an offence under section 2 if the
facts proved against the person—

1.7.a

do not amount to the offence of stalking, but

1.7.b

do amount to the offence under section 2.

1.8

Subsection (7) is without prejudice to section 6(2) of the Criminal Law Act
(Northern Ireland) 1967 (alternative verdicts on trial on indictment).

1.9

In this section “ statutory provision ” has the meaning given by section 1(f)
of the Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954.

#### Offence of threatening or abusive behaviour

2

2.1

A person (“ A ”) commits an offence if—

2.1.a

A behaves in a threatening or abusive manner,

2.1.b

the behaviour would be likely to cause a reasonable person to suffer fear or
alarm, and

2.1.c

A intends by the behaviour to cause fear or alarm or is reckless as to whether
the behaviour causes fear or alarm.

2.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection (1) to
show that the behaviour was reasonable in the particular circumstances.

2.3

Subsection (1) applies to—

2.3.a

behaviour of any kind including, in particular, things said or otherwise
communicated as well as things done, and

2.3.b

behaviour consisting of—

2.3.b.i

a single act, or

2.3.b.ii

a course of conduct.

2.4

A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1) is liable—

2.4.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both), or

2.4.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

#### Special measures directions

3

3.1

The Criminal Evidence (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 is amended as follows.

3.2

In Article 5(5) (offences where witnesses are eligible for assistance with
giving evidence), after sub-paragraph (c) add—

3.2.d

an offence under section 1 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022.

.

3.3

After Article 22A insert—

########## Complainants in proceedings involving stalking

3.3.22B

No person charged with an offence under section 1 of the Protection from
Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022 may in any criminal proceedings cross-
examine in person a witness who is the complainant, either—

3.3.22B.a

in connection with that offence, or

3.3.22B.b

in connection with any other offence (of whatever nature) with which that
person is charged in the proceedings.

.

3.4

In Article 23 (protection of children from cross-examination by defendant in
person)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (cd) insert—

3.4.a.ce

an offence under section 1 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022;

;

3.4.b

in paragraph (4)(a), for “or (cd)” substitute  “, (cd) or (ce)” .

3.5

In Article 24 (direction prohibiting defendant from cross-examining particular
witnesses)—

3.5.a

in paragraph (1), after “22A” insert  “, 22B” ;

3.5.b

in paragraph (3)(e), after “22A”, in both places it occurs, insert  “, 22B” .

3.6

In Article 26(1) (defence representation for purposes of cross-examination),
after “22A,” insert  “22B,” .

3.7

In Article 27(1) (warning to jury), after “22A,” insert  “22B,” .

#### Alternative to conviction of the domestic abuse offence

4

In section 13(2) of the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act (Northern
Ireland) 2021 (alternatives to the domestic abuse offence), after paragraph
(b) add—

4.c

an offence under section 1 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern
Ireland) 2022 (offence of stalking),

4.d

an offence under section 2 of that Act (offence of threatening or abusive
behaviour).

.

#### No right to claim trial by jury

5

In Article 29(1) of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981
(right to claim trial by jury for certain summary offences but not those
listed in the sub-paragraphs), after sub-paragraph (q) add—

5.r

section 1 or 2 of the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland) 2022.

.

### Stalking protection orders

#### Meaning of act associated with stalking and risk associated with stalking

6

6.1

This section applies for the purposes of this section and sections 7 to 10.

6.2

An “act associated with stalking” is any of the following—

6.2.a

following a person;

6.2.b

contacting, or attempting to contact, a person by any means;

6.2.c

publishing any statement or other material—

6.2.c.i

relating or purporting to relate to a person, or

6.2.c.ii

purporting to originate from a person;

6.2.d

monitoring the use by a person of the internet, email or any other form of
electronic communication;

6.2.e

entering any premises;

6.2.f

loitering in any place (whether public or private);

6.2.g

interfering with any property in the possession of a person;

6.2.h

giving anything to a person or leaving anything where it may be found by,
given to or brought to the attention of a person;

6.2.i

watching or spying on a person;

6.2.j

acting in any other way that it would be reasonable to expect would cause a
reasonable person to suffer fear, alarm or substantial distress.

6.3

A “risk associated with stalking” is a risk of—

6.3.a

a person carrying out acts associated with stalking, and

6.3.b

another person being a victim of those acts (if carried out).

6.4

Where there is a risk associated with stalking, the person mentioned in
subsection (3)(a) “poses a risk associated with stalking” to any person within
subsection (3)(b).

6.5

The acts mentioned in subsection (3) may be acts which the person mentioned in
subsection (3)(a) knows, or ought to know, are unwelcome to a person within
subsection (3)(b) even if, in other circumstances, the acts would appear
harmless in themselves.

6.6

A reference to being a victim of acts associated with stalking is a reference
to being a target of the acts or to suffering physical or psychological harm
because of, or otherwise being a victim of, the acts.

#### Applications for orders

7

7.1

A stalking protection order is an order which, for the purpose of preventing a
person from carrying out acts associated with stalking—

7.1.a

prohibits the person from doing anything described in the order, or

7.1.b

requires the person to do anything described in the order.

7.2

The Chief Constable may apply to a court of summary jurisdiction for a
stalking protection order against a person (“ D ”) if it appears to the Chief
Constable that—

7.2.a

D has carried out acts associated with stalking,

7.2.b

D poses a risk associated with stalking to another person, and

7.2.c

there is reasonable cause to believe the proposed order is necessary to
protect another person from such a risk (whether or not the other person was a
victim of the acts mentioned in paragraph (a)).

7.3

The Chief Constable may apply for a stalking protection order only against a
person—

7.3.a

who resides in Northern Ireland, or

7.3.b

who the Chief Constable believes is in, or is intending to come to, Northern
Ireland.

7.4

It does not matter—

7.4.a

whether the acts mentioned in subsection (2)(a) were carried out in a part of
the United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

7.4.b

whether they were carried out before or after the coming into operation of
this section.

#### Power to make orders

8

8.1

This section applies where the Chief Constable has applied under section 7 to
a court of summary jurisdiction for a stalking protection order against a
person (“ D ”).

8.2

The court may make the order if satisfied that—

8.2.a

D has carried out acts associated with stalking,

8.2.b

D poses a risk associated with stalking to another person, and

8.2.c

the proposed order is necessary to protect another person from such a risk
(whether or not the other person was a victim of the acts mentioned in
paragraph (a)).

8.3

The court may include a prohibition or requirement in the stalking protection
order only if satisfied that the prohibition or requirement is necessary to
protect the other person from a risk associated with stalking.

8.4

Prohibitions or requirements must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

8.4.a

conflict with D’s religious beliefs, and

8.4.b

interference with any times at which D normally works or attends an
educational establishment.

8.5

The court may not include any prohibition or requirement in the order which is
incompatible with a prohibition or requirement in a stalking protection order
to which D is already subject (whether made by that court or another).

8.6

A prohibition or requirement, unless expressly limited to a particular
locality, is to be complied with—

8.6.a

in all parts of the United Kingdom, and

8.6.b

if D resides in Northern Ireland or was resident in Northern Ireland when the
application for the order was made or is a UK national, also everywhere
outside the United Kingdom.

8.7

It does not matter—

8.7.a

whether the acts mentioned in subsection (2)(a) were carried out in a part of
the United Kingdom or elsewhere, or

8.7.b

whether they were carried out before or after the coming into operation of
this section.

#### Duration of orders

9

9.1

A prohibition or requirement contained in a stalking protection order has
effect—

9.1.a

for a fixed period, specified in the order, of at least 2 years beginning with
the day on which the order is made, or

9.1.b

until further order.

9.2

A stalking protection order—

9.2.a

may specify that some of its prohibitions or requirements have effect until
further order and some for a fixed period;

9.2.b

may specify different periods for different prohibitions or requirements.

#### Variations, discharges and renewals

10

10.1

The Chief Constable or the person against whom a stalking protection order is
made may apply to a court of summary jurisdiction for an order varying,
renewing or discharging the stalking protection order.

10.2

On the application, the court may make any order varying, renewing or
discharging the stalking protection order that the court considers
appropriate.

10.3

But a court may not—

10.3.a

in renewing or varying an order, impose an additional prohibition or
requirement unless satisfied that it is necessary to do so in order to protect
a person from a risk associated with stalking;

10.3.b

discharge an order before the end of 2 years beginning with the day on which
the order was made without the consent of—

10.3.b.i

the person against whom the order was made, and

10.3.b.ii

the Chief Constable.

#### Interim stalking protection orders

11

11.1

An interim stalking protection order, in relation to a person, is an order
which—

11.1.a

prohibits the person from doing anything described in the order, or

11.1.b

requires the person to do anything described in the order.

11.2

Subsection (3) applies where an application for a stalking protection order
against a person (“ D ”) has not been determined; and in the following
provisions that application is referred to as the main application.

11.3

A court of summary jurisdiction may, if it considers it appropriate to do so,
make an interim stalking protection order against D on an application made by
the Chief Constable at the same time as the main application or later.

11.4

Prohibitions or requirements included in the interim stalking protection order
must, so far as practicable, be such as to avoid—

11.4.a

conflict with D’s religious beliefs, and

11.4.b

interference with any times at which D normally works or attends an
educational establishment.

11.5

A prohibition or requirement included in the interim stalking protection
order, unless expressly limited to a particular locality, is to be complied
with—

11.5.a

in all parts of the United Kingdom, and

11.5.b

if D resides in Northern Ireland or was resident in Northern Ireland when the
main application was made or is a UK national, also everywhere outside the
United Kingdom.

11.6

The interim stalking protection order has effect only for a fixed period
specified in the order, but this is subject to subsections (9) and (10).

11.7

The Chief Constable or D may apply to a court of summary jurisdiction for an
order varying, renewing or discharging the interim stalking protection order.

11.8

On an application under subsection (7), the court may make any order varying,
renewing or discharging the interim stalking protection order that the court
considers appropriate.

11.9

The interim stalking protection order ceases to have effect, if it has not
already done so, on the making of a stalking protection order on the main
application or on the withdrawal of the main application.

11.10

Where the interim stalking protection order is in force immediately before the
dismissal of the main application, it ceases to have effect on the first
occasion after the dismissal when the following conditions are satisfied—

11.10.a

there is no pending appeal to the county court from the dismissal,

11.10.b

the time for making such an appeal (taking account of any extension granted)
has expired, and

11.10.c

there is no pending application to extend the time for making such an appeal.

#### Content of, and procedure for, orders

12

12.1

A stalking protection order and an interim stalking protection order must
specify—

12.1.a

the date on which the order is made,

12.1.b

each prohibition or requirement that applies to the person against whom the
order is made, and

12.1.c

whether any prohibition or requirement is expressly limited to a particular
locality and, if it is, what the locality is.

12.2

Any application under section 7, 10 or 11 to a court of summary jurisdiction
is to be made by complaint under Part 8 of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern
Ireland) Order 1981.

12.3

Article 78(1) of that Order (time limits) does not apply to a complaint by
which any such application is made.

12.4

An application under section 7 or 11(3) is to be heard by a youth court if,
and only if, it is for an order against a person who is under the age of 18
when the application is made.

12.5

An application under section 10 or 11(7) is to be heard by a youth court if,
and only if, it is for variation, renewal or discharge of an order made
against a person who is under the age of 18 when the application is made for
the variation, renewal or discharge.

12.6

Subsection (4) or (5) has effect despite the person attaining the age of 18
before the conclusion of the proceedings on the application.

12.7

In this section “ youth court ” means a court of summary jurisdiction—

12.7.a

constituted in accordance with Schedule 2 to the Children and Young Persons
Act (Northern Ireland) 1968, and

12.7.b

known as a youth court by virtue of Article 27 of the Criminal Justice
(Children) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998.

#### Offence of breaching order

13

13.1

A person who, without reasonable excuse, breaches a stalking protection order
or an interim stalking protection order commits an offence.

13.2

If a provision of the order is to be complied with in all parts of the United
Kingdom, subsection (1) applies to breaches of it anywhere in the United
Kingdom; and if a provision of the order is also to be complied with
everywhere outside the United Kingdom, subsection (1) also applies to breaches
of it anywhere outside the United Kingdom.

13.3

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

13.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both), or

13.3.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

13.4

Article 30(2) of the Criminal Justice (Children) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998
(youth court’s power to continue to deal with case, and defaults, after person
attains 18) applies in relation to proceedings under this section for breach
of an order as if they were not part of the proceedings in which the order was
made, renewed or varied.

13.5

In proceedings for an offence under this section, a copy of the original
stalking protection order or interim stalking protection order, certified by
the clerk of petty sessions or the court which made it, is admissible as
evidence of its having been made and of its contents to the same extent that
oral evidence of those things is admissible in those proceedings.

#### Notification requirements

14

14.1

A person subject to—

14.1.a

a stalking protection order (other than one which replaces an interim stalking
protection order), or

14.1.b

an interim stalking protection order,

must, within the period of 3 days beginning with the date on which the order
comes into force, notify to the police the information set out in subsection
(2).

14.2

The information is—

14.2.a

the person’s name and, where the person uses one or more other names, each of
those names,

14.2.b

the person’s home address, and

14.2.c

any other information prescribed by regulations made by the Department.

14.3

A person who—

14.3.a

is subject to a stalking protection order or an interim stalking protection
order, and

14.3.b

uses a name which has not been notified under this section,

must, before the end of the period of 3 days beginning with the date on which
that happens, notify to the police that name.

14.4

A person who—

14.4.a

is subject to a stalking protection order or an interim stalking protection
order, and

14.4.b

changes home address,

must, before the end of the period of 3 days beginning with the date on which
that happens, notify to the police the new home address.

14.5

The requirements imposed by subsections (1) to (4) do not apply to a person
who is subject to notification requirements under—

14.5.a

Part 2 of the Sexual Offences Act 2003,

14.5.b

Part 8 of the Justice (Northern Ireland) Act 2015, or

14.5.c

Schedule 3 to the Human Trafficking and Exploitation (Criminal Justice and
Support for Victims) Act (Northern Ireland) 2015.

14.6

Subsection (7) applies where—

14.6.a

a person is subject to a stalking protection order or an interim stalking
protection order,

14.6.b

at the time the order is made, the requirements imposed by this section do not
apply to the person as a result of subsection (5),

14.6.c

the person ceases on a subsequent day (“the final day”) to be subject to the
notification requirements mentioned in subsection (5), and

14.6.d

the order remains in effect on the final day.

14.7

The requirements imposed by subsections (1) to (4) apply to the person as from
the final day, but as if the reference in subsection (1) to the date on which
the order comes into force were a reference to the final day.

14.8

In this section “ home address ”, in relation to a person, means—

14.8.a

the address of the person’s sole or main residence in Northern Ireland, or

14.8.b

if the person has no residence in Northern Ireland, the address of the
person’s sole or main residence in Great Britain, or

14.8.c

if the person has no residence in the United Kingdom, the address or location
of a place in Northern Ireland where the person can regularly be found and, if
there is more than one such place, such of those places as the person may
select, or

14.8.d

if the person has no residence in the United Kingdom, and there is no such
place in Northern Ireland, the address or location of a place in Great Britain
where the person can regularly be found and, if there is more than one such
place, such of those places as the person may select.

14.9

Regulations are not to be made under subsection (2)(c) unless a draft of them
has been laid before, and approved by a resolution of, the Assembly.

#### Method of notification and related matters

15

15.1

A person gives a notification under section 14(1), (3) or (4) by—

15.1.a

attending at any police station in Northern Ireland prescribed by regulations
under section 87(1)(a) of the Sexual Offences Act 2003, and

15.1.b

giving an oral notification to any police officer, or to any person authorised
for the purpose by the officer in charge of the station.

15.2

A notification given in accordance with this section must be acknowledged—

15.2.a

in writing, and

15.2.b

in such form as the Department may direct.

15.3

When a person gives notification under section 14(1), (3) or (4), the person
must, if requested to do so by the police officer or person mentioned in
subsection (1), allow that officer or person to—

15.3.a

take the person’s fingerprints,

15.3.b

photograph any part of the person, or

15.3.c

do both of those things.

15.4

The power in subsection (3) is exercisable for the purpose of verifying the
identity of the person.

15.5

Fingerprints taken from a person under this section (and any copies of those
fingerprints) must be destroyed no later than the date on which the person
ceases to be subject to a stalking protection order or, as the case may be,
ceases to be subject to an interim stalking protection order that is not
replaced by a stalking protection order.

15.6

Photographs taken of any part of the offender under this section (and any
copies of such photographs) must be destroyed no later than the date on which
the person ceases to be subject to a stalking protection order or, as the case
may be, ceases to be subject to an interim stalking protection order that is
not replaced by a stalking protection order.

#### Offences relating to notification

16

16.1

A person commits an offence if the person—

16.1.a

fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section 14(1), (3) or (4),

16.1.b

notifies to the police, in purported compliance with section 14(1), (3) or
(4), any information which the person knows to be false, or

16.1.c

fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section 15(3).

16.2

A person guilty of an offence under this section is liable—

16.2.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years
or a fine (or both), or

16.2.b

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months or a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

16.3

A person commits an offence under subsection (1)(a) on the day on which the
person first fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with section 14(1),
(3) or (4).

16.4

The person continues to commit the offence throughout any period during which
the failure continues.

16.5

But the person may not be prosecuted more than once in respect of the same
failure.

### Operational matters

#### Guidance

17

17.1

The Department must issue guidance about—

17.1.a

the effect of this Act,

17.1.b

such other matters as the Department considers appropriate as to criminal law
or procedure relating to stalking in Northern Ireland, and

17.1.c

the exercise of the Chief Constable’s functions under the provisions of this
Act relating to stalking protection orders or interim stalking protection
orders.

17.2

A person exercising public functions to whom guidance issued under this
section relates must have regard to it in the exercise of those functions.

17.3

The Department may, from time to time, revise the guidance issued under
subsection (1).

17.4

The Department must—

17.4.a

keep any guidance issued under this section under review, and

17.4.b

revise any guidance issued under this section if the Department considers
revision to be necessary in light of review.

17.5

The Department must arrange for any guidance issued or revised under this
section to be published in such manner as the Department considers
appropriate.

17.6

The Department must lay before the Assembly any guidance issued or revised
under this section.

17.7

Nothing in this section permits the Department to issue guidance to a court or
tribunal.

#### Guidance on data collection

18

18.1

The Department—

18.1.a

may issue guidance to the listed bodies, or any additional bodies the
Department considers appropriate, about the sort of information it seeks to
obtain from them for the purpose of the assessment by it of the operation of
this Act, and

18.1.b

must have regard to relevant information it obtains from the listed bodies, or
from any additional bodies to whom such guidance is issued, in relation to the
operation of this Act when determining the steps (if any) that could be taken
by it for the purpose of ensuring the effectiveness of the operation of this
Act.

18.2

The listed bodies are—

18.2.a

the Police Service of Northern Ireland, and

18.2.b

the Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

#### Training

19

19.1

It is mandatory for each listed authority, and each specified authority, to
provide for those of its relevant personnel who have responsibilities for
dealing with cases under this Act—

19.1.a

such initial training, and

19.1.b

such annual or other top-up training,

as the authority considers appropriate for the purpose of the effective
discharge by those personnel of their respective responsibilities.

19.2

The Chief Constable is a listed authority, and the Chief Constable’s “relevant
personnel” are the personnel of the Police Service of Northern Ireland.

19.3

The Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland is a listed
authority, and the Director’s “relevant personnel” are the personnel of the
Public Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland.

19.4

The Department is a listed authority, and the Department’s “relevant
personnel” are—

19.4.a

staff within the Northern Ireland Courts and Tribunal Service, and

19.4.b

staff within any additional agency of the Department that has functions in
relation to cases under this Act and that the Department selects in connection
with this subsection.

19.5

The Department must publish a statement detailing the level of participation
by relevant personnel in training provided under subsection (1)—

19.5.a

before the end of the period of 18 months beginning with the day on which this
Act receives Royal Assent, and

19.5.b

thereafter within each period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the
last statement was published.

19.6

A “specified authority” is a person that—

19.6.a

has functions in relation to cases under this Act, and

19.6.b

is specified in connection with this section in regulations made by the
Department;

and a specified authority’s “relevant personnel” are persons of a description
specified in regulations made by the Department.

19.7

Regulations under subsection (6) are subject to negative resolution.

#### Report on the operation of this Act

20

20.1

The Department must prepare a report for each reporting period giving the
information in subsections (2) to (5) (so far as available to the Department).

20.2

In relation to sections 1, 2 and 13 (offences), the information referred to in
subsection (1) is —

20.2.a

the number of stalking incidents reported to the police (broken down by
reference to each of sections 1, 2 and 13); and “stalking incident” here means
an incident (including a course of conduct) which, as reported to the police,
indicates that an offence may have been committed under section 1, 2, or 13,

20.2.b

the number of crimes recorded by or on behalf of the police that are
classified as an offence under section 1, 2 or 13 broken down by reference to
each section,

20.2.c

the numbers mentioned in paragraphs (a) and (b) broken down by reference to
police districts,

20.2.d

the number of files submitted by or on behalf of the police to the Public
Prosecution Service for Northern Ireland in relation to offences under one or
more of sections 1, 2 and 13,

20.2.e

the number of cases prosecuted by the Public Prosecution Service for offences
under one or more of sections 1, 2, and 13, and—

20.2.e.i

the number of convictions in those cases,

20.2.e.ii

the average length of time in those cases from recording of a crime by or on
behalf of the police to disposal of the case at court (disregarding appeal
processes), and

20.2.e.iii

the number mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) broken down by reference to whether
the conduct or behaviour concerned was engaged in by means of the internet—

20.2.e.iii.A

in a key way, or

20.2.e.iii.B

in some lesser but non-minimal way, or

20.2.e.iii.C

either minimally or not at all.

20.3

In relation to stalking protection orders the information referred to in
subsection (1) is—

20.3.a

the number of stalking protection order incidents reported to the police; and
“stalking protection order incident” here means an incident (including a
course of conduct) which, as reported to the police, indicates that the Chief
Constable may have grounds for applying for a stalking protection order
against a person,

20.3.b

the number of applications for stalking protection orders under section 7 and
the number of orders made under section 8,

20.3.c

the number of stalking protection orders—

20.3.c.i

discharged before the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the day on
which the order was made,

20.3.c.ii

discharged at the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the day on which
the order was made,

20.3.c.iii

discharged after a period of more than 2 years beginning with the day on which
the order was made,

20.3.d

information on the number of applications seeking the—

20.3.d.i

variation,

20.3.d.ii

renewal, or

20.3.d.iii

discharge,

of a stalking protection order broken down by reference to whether the
application was made by the Chief Constable or the person against whom the
order was made.

20.3.e

information about the level of compliance with stalking protection orders and
the requirements of sections 14 and 15 in relation to stalking protection
orders.

20.4

In relation to interim stalking protection orders, the information referred to
in subsection (1) is —

20.4.a

the number of applications for interim stalking protection orders under
section 11 and the number of orders made,

20.4.b

the average duration of interim stalking protection orders,

20.4.c

the number of interim stalking protection orders which cease to have effect as
a result of a stalking protection order being made on the main application,

20.4.d

information on the number of applications seeking the—

20.4.d.i

variation,

20.4.d.ii

renewal, or

20.4.d.iii

discharge,

of an interim stalking protection order broken down by reference to whether
the application was made by the Chief Constable or the person against whom the
order was made.

20.4.e

information about the level of compliance with interim stalking protection
orders and the requirements of sections 14 and 15 in relation to interim
stalking protection orders.

20.5

The information referred to in subsection (1) also includes—

20.5.a

information about the level of participation, by persons for whom section 19
requires training to be provided, in the required training provided for them,

20.5.b

information about how court business is arranged so as to ensure the efficient
disposal of—

20.5.b.i

cases under sections 1, 2 and 13, and

20.5.b.ii

applications for stalking protection orders and applications for interim
stalking protection orders,

20.5.c

information about the experience at court of witnesses (including witnesses
who are children) —

20.5.c.i

in cases under sections 1, 2 and 13, and

20.5.c.ii

in applications for stalking protection orders and applications for interim
stalking protection orders,

but for the purposes of this paragraph a witness does not include the accused
or a person against whom an order is sought.

20.5.d

information about any issuing, review or revision of guidance under section 17
or 18,

20.5.e

any views or assessment that the Department considers it appropriate to give
in relation to the operation of this Act or its effectiveness,

20.5.f

information about any steps taken by the Department for raising public
awareness of the behaviours addressed by this Act (including, in particular,
awareness amongst persons targeted, or harmed or otherwise victimised, by the
behaviours),

20.5.g

information about any activities undertaken by the Department in supporting
the operation of this Act, and

20.5.h

any further information the Department considers appropriate.

20.6

For the purposes of subsection (1)—

20.6.a

the first reporting period—

20.6.a.i

begins on the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent, and

20.6.a.ii

is of such length, at least 2 years and not more than 3 years, as the
Department determines, and

20.6.b

each subsequent reporting period is the 3 years beginning with the end of the
previous reporting period.

20.7

The Department must publish each report under this section as soon as
practicable after completion of the report.

20.8

The Department must lay before the Assembly each report under this section.

20.9

The duty under subsection (1) does not apply to reporting periods ending after
such time as the Department may by regulations specify, but a time may not be
specified if it is earlier than the end of 10 years beginning with the day on
which this Act receives Royal Assent.

20.10

Regulations under subsection (9) are subject to negative resolution.

### Interpretation, commencement and short title

#### Interpretation

21

In this Act—

      “ the Department ” means the Department of Justice;           “ interim
stalking protection order ” has the meaning given in section 11(1);
“ stalking protection order ” has the meaning given in section 7(1);
“ UK national ” means an individual who is—         a British citizen, a
British overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas) or a
British Overseas citizen,           a person who under the British Nationality
Act 1981 is a British subject, or           a British protected person within
the meaning of that Act.

#### Commencement

22

22.1

Sections 1 to 5, sections 18 to 21, this section and section 23 come into
operation on the day after the day on which this Act receives Royal Assent.

22.2

The other provisions of this Act come into operation on such day or days as
the Department may by order appoint.

22.3

The Department may by order make such transitional, transitory or saving
provision as the Department considers appropriate in connection with the
coming into operation of any provision of this Act.

#### Short title

23

This Act may be cited as the Protection from Stalking Act (Northern Ireland)
2022.

