Title: Scottish Local Government Elections (Candidacy Rights of Foreign Nationals) Act 2022
Date: 2022-09-11
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2022/4

## Scottish Local Government Elections (Candidacy Rights of Foreign Nationals) Act 2022

### Local government elections: candidacy rights of certain foreign nationals

1

1.1

The Local Government (Scotland) Act 1973 is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 29 (qualifications for nomination, election and holding office as a
member of a local authority)—

1.2.a

in subsection (1), after “national” insert  “or a schedule 6A national” ,

1.2.b

in subsection (5), at the end of paragraph (a) insert  “or a schedule 6A
national” ,

1.2.c

after subsection (7), insert—

1.2.c.8

For the purposes of this section, a “ schedule 6A national ” means a person
who—

1.2.c.8.a

is a national of a country for the time being listed in schedule 6A, and

1.2.c.8.b

either—

1.2.c.8.b.i

is not a person who requires leave under the Immigration Act 1971 to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom, or

1.2.c.8.b.ii

is such a person but for the time being has (or is, by virtue of any
enactment, to be treated as having) any description of such leave.

.

1.3

After schedule 6, insert—

  CANDIDACY RIGHTS OF FOREIGN NATIONALS

Section 29(8)

########### List of countries for the purposes of section 29(8)

1.3.1

This is the list of countries referred to in section 29(8)—

      Luxembourg           Poland           Portugal           Spain.

########### Amendment of list of countries

1.3.2

The Scottish Ministers must by regulations add a country to the list in
paragraph 1 where—

1.3.2.a

the United Kingdom and the country intend to become parties to a relevant
treaty, and

1.3.2.b

section 20 of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act 2010 (treaties to
be laid before Parliament before ratification) applies in relation to the
relevant treaty and the requirements of that section have been met such that
the relevant treaty may be ratified.

1.3.3

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations remove a country for the time being
listed in paragraph 1 where the country ceases to be a party to a relevant
treaty to which the United Kingdom is also a party.

1.3.4

Regulations under paragraph 2 or 3—

1.3.4.a

may include incidental, supplementary, consequential, transitional, transitory
or saving provision,

1.3.4.b

are subject to the negative procedure.

1.3.5

In this schedule—

      “ ratification ”, in relation to a treaty, is to be construed in
accordance with section 25(3) of the Constitutional Reform and Governance Act
2010,           “ relevant treaty ” means a treaty containing provision
relating to eligibility to stand as a candidate at local government elections,
“ treaty ” has the same meaning as in Part 2 of the Constitutional Reform and
Governance Act 2010 (see section 25 of that Act).

.

### Ancillary provision

2

2.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act.

2.2

Regulations under this section may—

2.2.a

make different provision for different purposes,

2.2.b

modify any enactment.

2.3

Regulations under this section—

2.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act,

2.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

### Commencement

3

This Act comes into force on the day after Royal Assent.

### Short title

4

The short title of this Act is the Scottish Local Government Elections
(Candidacy Rights of Foreign Nationals) Act 2022.

