Title: Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2022
Date: 2024-05-08
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/39

## Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2022

                                                   W hereas  the Commons of
the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled have resolved to authorise the use
of resources and the issue of sums out of the Consolidated Fund towards making
good the supply which they have granted to Her Majesty in this Session of
Parliament:—
Be it therefore enacted by the Queen's most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Main authorisation for use of resources for 2022-23

1

1.1

The amount up to which there is authorisation for the use of resources for the
year ending with 31 March 2023 is increased by £486,497,865,000.

1.2

Of the amount authorised by  subsection (1) —

1.2.a

£409,480,425,000 is authorised for use for current purposes, and

1.2.b

£77,017,440,000 is authorised for use for capital purposes.

### Main authorisation for issue of money out of Consolidated Fund in 2022-23

2

The amount up to which the Treasury has authorisation—

2.a

to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

2.b

to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2023 for expenditure authorised
by Parliament,

is increased by £356,026,979,000.

### Appropriation of resources authorised for use for year 2022-23

3

3.1

The aggregate of the following (which is £897,055,041,000) is appropriated for
the year ending with 31 March 2023 in accordance with  subsections (2)  to
(4) —

3.1.a

the amount of resources the use of which for that year is authorised by
section 1(1) of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and Adjustments)
Act 2022, and

3.1.b

the amount of resources the use of which for that year is authorised by
section 1 (1) .

3.2

The amount of resources which is—

3.2.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.2.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount authorised subject to a particular
Departmental Expenditure Limit,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant DEL matter.

3.3

The amount of resources which is—

3.3.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.3.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount of Annually Managed Expenditure,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant AME matter.

3.4

The amount of resources which is—

3.4.a

set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates, and

3.4.b

identified in that Estimate as a net amount of Non-Budget Expenditure,

is appropriated by this Act for use, for current or for capital purposes
(according to how it is identified in the Estimate), in respect of any
relevant NBE matter.

3.5

Section 5 (4)  applies (instead of  subsections (2)  to  (4) ) to any amount
of resources set out in a Scheduled Estimate if it is identified in that
Estimate as representing the amount of an estimated surplus.

### Appropriation of money authorised for issue in year 2022-23

4

4.1

The aggregate of the following (which is £717,749,167,000) is appropriated for
the year ending with 31 March 2023 in accordance with  subsection (2) —

4.1.a

the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated Fund is
authorised by section 1(3) of the Supply and Appropriation (Anticipation and
Adjustments) Act 2022, and

4.1.b

the amount of money the issue of which out of that Fund is authorised by
section 2 .

4.2

The amount of money which is set out in each of the Scheduled Estimates and
identified in that Estimate as a net cash requirement is appropriated for
expenditure—

4.2.a

on any use of resources that has been authorised by Parliament in relation to
the department or other person to which the Estimate relates, or in relation
to the service to which it relates, or

4.2.b

for any other purpose specified in that Estimate as a purpose for which that
money may be applied.

4.3

Section 5 (4)  applies (instead of  subsection (2)  of  this section ) to any
amount of money set out in a Scheduled Estimate if it is identified in that
Estimate as representing the amount of an estimated surplus.

### Appropriation and other use of income

5

5.1

Subsections (2)  to  (4)  make provision (instead of imposing limits on
appropriations in aid under section 2 of the Government Resources and Accounts
Act 2000) about the use of income arising for the year ending with 31 March
2023 from matters specified in the Scheduled Estimates as matters from which
income may arise.

5.2

Income specified in a Scheduled Estimate may be appropriated for use for
current or capital purposes (according to the nature of the income)—

5.2.a

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
a particular Departmental Expenditure Limit, in respect of relevant DEL
matters,

5.2.b

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
an amount of Annually Managed Expenditure, in respect of relevant AME matters,
and

5.2.c

where the matters from which the income may arise are specified in relation to
an amount of Non-Budget Expenditure, in respect of relevant NBE matters.

5.3

This section  authorises an appropriation of income to the extent only that
the appropriation is made in accordance with any applicable rules about the
appropriation of income that have been—

5.3.a

issued by the Treasury, and

5.3.b

laid before the House of Commons before the passing of this Act.

5.4

Where an amount specified in a Scheduled Estimate is identified as
representing the amount of an estimated surplus, appropriations of income in
respect of any matter are authorised by  this section  to the extent only
that—

5.4.a

they are consistent, in the opinion of the Treasury, with financial planning
that is calculated to produce a surplus of at least that amount, or

5.4.b

they are authorised by a direction given by the Treasury for the purpose of
anticipating a proposal for the reduction or elimination of the estimated
surplus by a subsequent Act relating to financial supply and appropriation.

5.5

All amounts of money received in the year ending with 31 March 2023 in respect
of any matter whatever by a department or other person to whom a Scheduled
Estimate relates, or in respect of any service to which a Scheduled Estimate
relates, must be paid into the Consolidated Fund, unless—

5.5.a

the appropriation for any other use of those amounts, or of the accrued
amounts in respect of which they are received, is authorised by  this section
or any other enactment, or

5.5.b

they are dealt with in some other manner in accordance with any other
enactment or in consequence of the exercise of a power conferred by any other
enactment.

5.6

Where the Treasury determine that there has been or is likely to be a
contravention of  this section , the Treasury may give the person appearing to
them to be responsible for the contravention whatever directions the Treasury
think fit for rectifying the situation.

5.7

A direction by the Treasury under  this section  may be revoked or varied by a
subsequent direction.

### Operation from beginning of financial year

6

The appropriations and other provision made by  sections 3  to  5  are to be
treated as having had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2022.

### Interpretation

7

7.1

In this Act—

                  “ estimated surplus ” is to be read in accordance with
subsection (2) ;
“ income ” includes capital amounts but only to the extent that they have
accrued in respect of actual or anticipated capital receipts or the
acquisition of a capital asset;
“ relevant AME matter ”, in relation to an amount of Annually Managed
Expenditure specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter in relation to
which that amount is identified as Annually Managed Expenditure;
“ relevant DEL matter ”, in relation to a Departmental Expenditure Limit
specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter expenditure relating to
which is identified in that Estimate as to be included in the expenditure
which is to be subject to that limit;
“ relevant NBE matter ”, in relation to an amount of Non-Budget Expenditure
specified in a Scheduled Estimate, means a matter in relation to which that
amount is identified as Non-Budget Expenditure;
“ Scheduled Estimates ” means the Estimates set out in  the Schedule  to this
Act (being the relevant part of Part 1 of each of the main Estimates as agreed
by the House of Commons for the year ending 31 March 2023).

7.2

References in this Act to an amount identified in a Scheduled Estimate as
representing the amount of an estimated surplus are references to an amount
preceded by a minus sign.

7.3

In relation to a Scheduled Estimate for a body listed in  subsection (4) —

7.3.a

the reference in  section 3 (2) (b)  to a net amount authorised subject to a
particular Departmental Expenditure Limit is to be read as a reference to a
net requirement identified in that Estimate as “Departmental Expenditure Limit
equivalent”;

7.3.b

references in this Act to a “relevant DEL matter” are to be read as references
to a matter expenditure relating to which is identified in the Estimate as to
be included in the expenditure which is subject to a net requirement mentioned
in  paragraph (a) ;

7.3.c

the reference in  section 5 (2) (a)  to matters specified in relation to a
particular Departmental Expenditure Limit is to be read as a reference to
matters specified in the Estimate as matters from which income may arise.

7.4

The bodies are—

7.4.a

the House of Commons: Administration;

7.4.b

the National Audit Office;

7.4.c

the Parliamentary Works Sponsor Body.

### Short title

8

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act
2022.

                 APPROPRIATIONS FOR FINANCIAL YEAR 2022-23

                 Section 7

  Department of Health and Social Care, 2022-23   Department of Health and
Social Care       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department of Health and Social Care Departmental Expenditure Limit
128,212,941,000 12,047,914,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 10,880,000,000
105,600,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 146,156,750,000
Total 139,092,941,000 12,153,514,000 146,156,750,000 Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Revenue (administration and
programme) and capital expenditure of the Department of Health and Social Care
and other designated bodies, including the NHS Commissioning Board, known as
NHS England, (including Clinical Commissioning Groups), NHS Providers, Special
Health Authorities, Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health
SecurityAgency and the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.
Health and social service expenditure to and on behalf of the NHS including
the settlement of claims for personal injury and clinical negligence, local
authorities and other national bodies.       Local government services, prison
health services, medical, scientific and technical services, services for
disabled persons, education and training, grants to voluntary organisations
and other bodies, information services, breast implant registry, Healthy Start
programme, health promotion activities, research and development, expenditure
incurred in relation to Life sciences and EU Exit.       Governmental response
to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. This includes, but is not exhaustive:
NHS Test and Trace, personal protective equipment, Covid-19 medicines,
treatments and equipment and the supply, distribution and deployment of
Covid-19 vaccines and associated activities.       Non-departmental public
bodies expenditure on health and social care protection, training and
regulation functions.       Expenditure to charitable trusts and companies
providing financial support and other relief to persons who contracted HIV and
Hepatitis C through receiving NHS treatment.       Forming, investing in or
providing loans or guarantees to companies that will provide facilities or
services to the NHS.       Services provided to or on behalf of devolved
governments and other government departments.       Medical treatment given to
people from the United Kingdom in the European Economic Area and other
countries.       Subsidies and grants to public corporations and local
authorities, payments to local authorities for use in local area agreements.
Official Development Assistance projects and activities. Subscriptions to
international organisations and international and commercial facilitation
relating to healthcare.       Payments for services incurred by other
government departments, including expenditure on behalf of the Department for
Work and Pensions.       Associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs
(including provisions, impairments and impairment of receivables).
Expenditure incurred in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce.
Income arising from:       Charges for accommodation, sales of goods and
services, income generation schemes. Local authorities under joint financing
arrangements. Fines and penalty notices. Medical and dental education levy.
Licensing of software, use of NHS logo, settlement of legal claims, dividends
and interest from loans and investments, intellectual property, research and
development, prescription fraud charges, NHS prescriptions, dental and
ophthalmic fraud charges.       Recoveries from patients in respect of
incorrect claims for eligibility for including NHS treatment and general
ophthalmic services. Payments from manufacturers or suppliers of medicinal
products to control the cost of health service medicines and purchasing and
supply agency arrangements.       Sales of medicines, vaccines, antivenoms,
antitoxins and equipment, premiums applied to the sale of stock.       Income
from the Scottish Government, the Welsh Assembly Government, Northern Ireland,
Channel Islands and Isle of Man for services provided for devolved or reserved
work.       Provision of policy and advice to other countries and care trusts.
Maintenance of the National Joint Registry, conference and meeting events,
prison health services, contributions to substance misuse funding, use of
radio communication bandwidth.       Income secured by counter fraud services
from all sources.       Administration income from seconded officers, cost of
legal proceedings, staff telephone calls, European fast stream programme.
Recoveries and income from other government departments, recoveries and income
from ALBs (including capital and grants), special health authorities and NHS
bodies. Selling services into wider markets and open government, payment by
commercial tenants in DHSC buildings and compensation income.       Licence
fees and royalties, sales of publications, contributions by members of the
public, insurance claims and social exclusion programmes. Other European
Economic Area countries for NHS treatment of their residents. Income collected
for the immigration health surcharge. Sales of subsidised dried milk. Income
from the European Union.       Contributions from the mobile phone industry,
charitable contributions, refunds from voluntary organisations. Contributions
to local authority grant schemes. Contributions and refunds towards
communication campaigns contracts. Penalty charges, interest and dividends on
trading fund loans.       Income collected on behalf of health innovation and
education clusters.       Income received from the sale of capital assets.
Income received from the disposal of financial assets.       Income associated
with the acquisition of assets.       Income arising from Governmental
response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Income arising from
activities in relation to the Covid-19 Vaccine Taskforce and Covid-19
Antiviral Taskforce.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Revenue and capital expenditure for hospital
financing under Credit Guarantee Finance.       Provisions and other non-cash
costs, of the Department of Health and Social Care and other designated
bodies, including the NHS Commissioning Board, known as NHS England (including
Clinical Commissioning Groups), NHS Providers, Special Health Authorities,
Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies, the UK Health Security Agency and
the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency.       Governmental
response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.           Income arising from:
Interest and dividends. Income from the disposal of financial assets.

  Department for Education, 2022-23   Department for Education       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Education
Departmental Expenditure Limit 71,903,705,000 6,364,300,0000 Annually Managed
Expenditure -9,594,400,000 28,737,600,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 100,847,744,000 Total 62,309,305,000 35,101,900,000
100,847,744,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising
from:       Centrally managed spend, grants and/or loans to primary,
secondary, tertiary and international education, apprenticeships and wider
skills institutions, including the purchase, development, protection and
disposal of land and buildings in support of these sectors.       The
provision of financial and other support for students and trainees including
grants, allowances, access funds, loans and their repayment. Loans to students
and support for students through Local Authorities. The cost of sales of the
student loan debt and the cost of servicing the sold student loan debt.
Reimbursement of fees for qualifying European Union students, post graduate
awards, mandatory student awards, childcare and transport support and loans.
Children's services, including early years, childcare and safeguarding,
welfare and young people's services and expenditure incurred in relation to
historical child migrants.       Curriculum, qualifications, and the
inspection regime.       Schools Workforce development and reform.
Expenditure associated with social mobility policy.       Expenditure relating
to the regulation of the social work profession and expenditure related to the
regulation of the teaching profession.       Administering the Teachers'
Pension Scheme (England and Wales), pension costs for voluntary services
overseas (VSO) participants. Education-related payments, grants, and loans to
organisations in the public, private and other sectors, including employers,
community, voluntary and business support organisations, to individuals and
other government departments, local authorities and the Devolved
Administrations. Including expenditure relating to insolvency resulting in
either a restructuring solution, education administration or closure.
Expenditure relates primarily to England, but in some cases includes
supporting activities in other parts of the United Kingdom and abroad.
The costs of the Department, its Executive Agencies, and arm's length bodies
(ALBs): the Children's Commissioner, Aggregator Vehicle plc, Located Ltd,
Institute for Apprenticeships, Office for Students, Social Work England,
Student Loans Company Ltd, UK Commissioner for Employment and Skills,
Construction Industry Training Board, Engineering Construction Industry
Training Board, together with residual costs from ALBs being closed.
Loan and lease interest payable and the efficient management and discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department. Capital, recurrent payments and loans
and associated non-cash items, including the impairment cost for student
loans.       Expenditure relating to delivery of Government Guarantee funded
policies should they be required.       Expenditure and support to other
central government departments to prepare for EU Exit.       Activities
relating to the sale of income contingent student loans, including purchase of
retention notes as financial instruments and repayments against the asset
because of UK Government Investment activity.       Expenditure relating to
the provision of education in support of the wider Grenfell recovery efforts.
Expenditure relating to delivery of teacher assessments and student
qualifications including support to other govt. Departments and National
Executives.       Expenditure relating to policy innovation and development,
and leadership of the cross-government policy profession.       Governmental
response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and
loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the response. Including
loans and recoveries to support our ALBs.       Acting as the Agent for other
government departments in relation to payments and assurance made in relation
to Covid-19 and the pandemic.           Income arising from:
Administration and programme income in support of its objectives including:
The sale of goods and services by the department including publications, its
Executive Agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations.
Sale of research publications. Receipts from the three National Executives,
other government departments, the Devolved Administrations, and other sources
(including the EU) in connection with a range of educational, training, youth
support, student finance provision, children and family programmes with common
objectives, and initiatives in UK and overseas.       Early Intervention
Foundation receipts.       Interest receivable relating to Aggregator Vehicle
plc.       Receipts from other government departments including charges for
accommodation and property rental income from departmental properties and from
its ALBs, the European School at Culham, sales receipts and profits from
Departmental or ALB properties, equipment, or other assets (including some
repayment of proceeds of sale).       Income relating to the regulation of the
teaching and social work profession.       Income relating to insolvency as a
result of education administration.       Sales receipts and rental income
streams from sites originally purchased for academies and free schools that
are not required by the school, penalty income for missed delivery dates in
construction contracts, repayments of grant overpaid in previous years or
where required conditions of grant retention have not been met, repayments of
loans issued to academies, receipts associated with the closure of
departmental ALBs.       International receipts, Music Manifesto Champion
receipts, income from providing shared services, the receipt of administration
fees collected by the Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales).
Receipts from servicing sold student loan debt. Receipts from asset sales
repayment and default recoveries by banks in respect of career development
loans, receipts for student support, student loan interest receivable,
repayment of working capital loans, receipts from the European Social Fund to
cover departmental programmes and sponsorship funding.       Activities
relating to the sale of income contingent student loans, including purchase of
retention notes as financial instruments and repayments against the asset
because of UK Government Investment activity.       The general administration
receipts of the department, its executive agencies, its arm's length bodies,
and other partner organisations, including: the recovery of salaries and
associated costs for seconded staff, the disposal of surplus assets, charges
for accommodation, sale of goods and services, and interest from bank accounts
and exchange rate gains and losses.       Income relating to delivery of
teacher assessments and student qualifications including receipts from other
government Departments and National Executives.       Income relating to
policy innovation and development, and leadership of the cross-government
policy profession.       Income and support to other central government
departments relating to support for EU Exit.       Acting as the Agent for
other government departments in relation to income and assurance made in
relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.       Governmental response to the
Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and loan of staff to and from the
Department, including loans and recoveries to support our ALBs.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Take up
and maintenance of Departmental, Executive Agencies' and ALBs' provisions and
associated non-cash items including bad debts, impairments, tax and pension
costs for the Department, Executive Agencies, and its ALBs including
academies, and payment of corporation tax.       The provision of financial
and other support for students and trainees including grants, allowances,
access funds, loans and their repayment, the resource consequences of loans to
students, support for students through local authorities, the cost of sales of
the student loan debt, education maintenance allowances and loans.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic including the
secondment and loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the
response and loans and recoveries to support our ALBs.       Acting as the
Agent for other government departments in relation to payments and assurance
made in relation to Covid-19 and the pandemic.           Income arising from:
Repayment of student loans, including of principal and interest.
Receipts and levies from the Construction Industry Training Board and the
Engineering Construction Industry Training Board.       Receipts from asset
sales.       Activities relating to the sale of income contingent student
loans, including purchase of retention notes as financial instruments and
repayments against the asset because of UK Government Investment activity.
Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic including the secondment and
loan of staff to and from the Department in support of the response and loans
and recoveries to support our ALBs.       Acting as the Agent for other
government departments in relation to payments and assurance made in relation
to Covid-19 and the pandemic.

  Home Office, 2022-23   Home Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Home Office Departmental Expenditure Limit
14,525,462,000 1,062,873,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 2,534,160,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 18,030,524,000 Total 17,059,622,000
1,062,873,000 18,030,524,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Control of immigration and nationality;
refugees (including the provision of loans) and Voluntary and Community Sector
refugee organisations; support for asylum seekers; work permits.
Safeguarding children and vulnerable adults including reducing and preventing
child trafficking and modern slavery; registration of forensic practitioners;
grants to, and other expenditure on behalf of associated entities.
Securing the UK border and for controlling migration of people and goods at
ports and airports across the UK and overseas.       Identity management;
passports.       Emergency planning and services; counter-terrorism and
intelligence.       Responsibility for the fire and rescue services; financial
support to Local Authorities and Fire and Rescue Authorities; emergency
assistance; improvement, transformation and efficiency; intervention action
and capacity building in local authorities; Private Finance Initiative Special
Grant.       Police resource and capital expenditure; crime reduction and
prevention; firearms compensation and related matters; other services related
to crime; tackling drug abuse.       Expenditure arising from the programme to
reform the proceeds of crime and terrorism financing "suspicious activity
reporting" regime.       Immigration Health Surcharge and Immigration Skills
Charge.       Net spending by Arm's Length Bodies (Independent Office for
Police Conduct, Security Industry Authority, Office of the Immigration
Services Commissioner, College of Policing, Gangmasters Labour Abuse Authority
and the Disclosure and Barring Service). Payments of grant and grant-in-aid to
other organisations promoting Home Office objectives; support to local
authorities including Area Based Grants; payments to other Government
departments; the administration and operation of the department; and other
non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Control of immigration
and nationality; additional or special immigration services; work permits;
fees, fines and penalties arising from relevant Home Office legislation.
Identity management and data protection; passports and certificates.
Emergency planning and services; counter-terrorism work, and intelligence.
Responsibility for and inspections of crown premises and emergency services.
Cyber-crime.       Contributions for Police IT services.       Issue of
licences and certificates; crime reduction and prevention; proceeds of crime;
training and advisory services.       Immigration Health Surcharge and
Immigration Skills Charge.       Contributions towards grant programmes from
third parties, other Government departments and the Devolved Administrations,
the European Union, other Governments; the administration and operation of the
department (including the sale and hire of assets).           Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Pensions; and other non-
cash items.

  National Crime Agency, 2022-23   National Crime Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Crime Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 615,186,000 105,125,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
50,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 800,000,000 Total
665,186,000 105,125,000 800,000,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       UK and overseas activity including but not
limited to:       Principal function - Crime Reduction:       Securing that
efficient and effective activities to combat serious and organised crime are
carried out including by:       Investigating, prosecuting, preventing and
disrupting people engaged in serious and organised crime.       Other
expenditure related to tackling crime to support the objectives of the
National Crime Agency.       Payment of grants to partners to promote and
deliver National Crime Agency objectives; and the administration and operation
of the department, its enabling functions and non-cash items.
Expenditure including: fees to Counsel and outside accountants, witness
expenses, use of information technology to improve presentation of evidence,
other investigation, prosecution and litigation costs, defendants costs, and
damages ordered by the court to be paid by the NCA, including payments made as
a result of asset recovery activity to individuals, charities, companies,
other Government Departments, the Devolved Administrations, the European Union
and other Governments. All other costs associated with asset recovery through
Criminal and Civil courts and the holding and safe guarding of third party
assets.       Work relating to protection of witnesses and victims or
potential victims of crime.       Principal function - Criminal Intelligence:
Gathering, storing, processing, analysing, and disseminating information that
is relevant to any of the following:       Intelligence activities to combat
serious and organised crime, activities to combat any other kind of crime and
exploitation proceeds investigations, exploitation proceeds orders and
applications for such orders.       NCA's response to the Serious and
Organised Crime Strategy:       Pursue: prosecute and disrupt people engaged
in serious and organised criminality.       Prevent: prevent people from
engaging in serious and organised crime.       Protect: increase protection
against serious and organised crime.       Prepare: reduce the impact of this
criminality where it takes place.       Work on research and development to
increase knowledge and the furtherance of the NCA's strategy and the law
enforcement family.       Provision of training to both internal and external
parties.       Activity to ensure the effective operation of the organisation
after exiting the European Union including but not limited to contingency
planning, amending information systems, implementation of new systems and
processes and surge staff to new deployments as required.       Work in
support of HM Government plans for negotiation and implementation of new deals
with other countries after exiting the European Union.       Expenditure on
goods and services to enable the reduction of the carbon footprint of the
organisation.       Expenditure to support, protect and enable the NCA and its
officers and national and local government and law enforcement organisations
during the period of endemic Covid-19.           Income arising from:       UK
and overseas activity including but not limited to:       Training and
accreditation fees;       Cyber Crime Prevention;       Asset Recovery
Incentivisation Scheme;       Safeguarding children;       External
contributions towards the NCA's own and also NCA led and managed crime
reduction activities and grant programmes, from third parties including other
Government departments, the Devolved Administrations, the European Union and
other Governments. The administration and operation of the department
(including the sale and hire of assets, charges such as the use of
intellectual property, insurance claims and legal costs recovered).
External contributions for the provision of information to third parties.
Recovery of income awarded to the NCA in court or by negotiation with third
parties, receipts of service provided by the NCA and receipts from any asset
recovery activity, including the recovery of VAT expenditure where approved to
do so.       Providing assistance to other law enforcement and government
bodies.       Recovery of expenditure incurred by NCA enabling capability
functions that established IT, recruitment of staff, financial and other
enabling requirements from third parties who provide the agency with funds to
deliver specific and mutually agreed objectives.       Income relating to
costs incurred to ensure the effective operation of the organisation after
exiting the European Union including but not limited to contingency planning,
amending information systems, implementation of new systems and processes and
surging staff to new deployments as required.       Recovery of costs incurred
for work in support of HM Government plans for a negotiation and
implementation of new deals with other countries after exiting the European
Union.       Funds from other Government departments to enable the
organisation to reduce its carbon footprint.       Income relating to Covid-19
costs and pressures.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Pension liabilities, provisions and other non-
cash items.

  Ministry of Justice, 2022-23   Ministry of Justice       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice Departmental
Expenditure Limit 10,112,137,000 1,760,092,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
528,678,000 23,303,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
11,292,379,000 Total 10,640,815,000 1,783,395,000 11,292,379,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Administration of
the Ministry of Justice, its Agencies, Arm's Length Bodies and associated
offices including the Office of the Accountant General; administration of
judicial pay and of the Judicial Pensions Scheme.       Policy and activities
relating to the justice system including: civil, family and criminal justice;
administrative justice (e.g. tribunals policy work), legal aid and legal
support; support for victims and witnesses; miscarriages of justice; judicial
and legal services policy.       Policy and activities related to coroner,
burial and cremation services including the administration of the Children's
Funeral Fund.       Policy and activities relating to sentencing and offender
reform, including prison, probation and youth justice; reducing reoffending;
support for youth, women and vulnerable offenders; commissioning of prison,
probation, youth custody services including safety and security.       Policy
and activities relating to human rights, both domestic and in relation to the
UK's international obligations; management of the Government's constitutional
relationship with the Crown Dependencies; European and international business
in the justice field including costs arising from UK's exit of the European
Union.       Payments in respect of public inquests and inquiries; fee refund
schemes; grants and other payments to Police and Crime Commissioners, local
authorities, other justice system partners, support providers and public
sector bodies.       Compensation to judicial office holders, including
payments in lieu of pension where this cannot be met by the Judicial Pensions
Scheme.       Expenditure by the following Executive Agencies: Her Majesty's
Prison and Probation Service; Her Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service
including the Court of Protection; the Office of the Public Guardian; the
Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority and the Legal Aid Agency, including
costs paid from central funds.       Net expenditure by the following
executive Arm's Length Bodies: Criminal Cases Review Commission; Children and
Family Court Advisory and Support Service; Independent Monitoring Authority
for the Citizens' Rights Agreements, Judicial Appointments Commission; Legal
Services Board; Office for Legal Complaints; Parole Board; Youth Justice Board
and Gov Facility Services Limited.       Expenditure of advisory Arm's Length
Bodies on inspectorates, monitoring boards, lay observers, the UK National
Preventive Mechanism, the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman, Judicial
Appointments and Conduct Ombudsman; support for the judiciary and other
monitoring and advisory activities; the Law Commission, the Office of the
Official Solicitor and the Public Trustee; the Sentencing Council for England
and Wales and the Victims' Commissioner.       Capital, depreciation and other
non-cash costs falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Income
related to the activities of Her Majesty's Courts and Tribunals Service,
including Civil and Family Court fee income; Tribunals fee income; Probate Fee
Income.       Fine income, including retention of legacy criminal court
charging income; receipts relating to the asset recovery incentive scheme;
receipts from the Victims Surcharge; receipts retained in relation to the
costs of fine enforcement and pre-1990 loan charge debt payments.       Income
related to the activities of Her Majesty's Prison and Probation Service,
including share of gross profits from sales and services; prisoners' earnings
and contributions related to damage to property; and receipts from external
organisations, subsidies and sales; receipts from local authorities for secure
remand places.       Fees charged by the Public Trustee, Office of the Public
Guardian and Court of Protection.       Income related to the activities of
the Legal Aid Agency, including client contributions, recoveries, interest and
grants from other third parties.       Repayment of criminal injuries
compensation; contributions from other Government Departments towards the
costs of inquests and inquiries.       Recoveries from the Debt Management
Office for the cost of administering funds in court; from investment managers
for the cost of administering the Lord Chancellor's Strategic Investment
Board; for research and recommendation work undertaken by the Law Commission;
recoveries by the Office of the Official Solicitor.       Legal services
regulation; judicial superannuation contributions and receipts from the
Judicial Pensions Scheme supply estimate for administrative costs.
Receipts from: the European Commission; Royal Licences; Crown Office fees;
Design 102 activities; the New Deal Scheme and wider markets initiatives; the
Scottish Government, Northern Ireland Executive and the Welsh Assembly
Government; National Insurance Fund and Scottish Criminal Injuries
Compensation Appeals Panel; the Education and Skills Funding Agency; the
Heritage Lottery Fund and Sport England.       The general administration
receipts of the Department and its executive agencies, including the recovery
of salaries, the disposal of capital assets, charges for accommodation, sale
of goods and services, and interest from bank accounts; other charges and
receipts received from other government departments.           Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Maintenance of
Departmental, Executive Agencies and ALBs' provisions and other non-cash
items, including bad debts, impairments, tax and pension costs and corporation
tax.       Additional Universal Credit expenditure associated with the early
release of prisoners.

  Crown Prosecution Service, 2022-23   Crown Prosecution Service
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Crown
Prosecution Service Departmental Expenditure Limit 733,257,000 47,330,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 5,950,000 2,859,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 729,358,000 Total 739,207,000 50,189,000 729,358,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administrative, operational, and capital costs incurred by the CPS in
prosecuting criminal cases in England and Wales, including prosecution costs,
costs of confiscating the proceeds of crime and capacity building in the
Criminal Justice System along with staff costs, the hire of agents, support of
voluntary sector organisations within the Criminal Justice System and
associated depreciation and any non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:       Costs awarded to CPS in court and the Asset
Recovery Incentivisation Scheme; revenue from contract with customers; refund
of expenditure for seconded staff; collaborative working with partner
organisations and other administrative income.           Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Write-offs and changes in
allowance for irrecoverable debts, provisions and other non-cash costs falling
in AME.

  Serious Fraud Office, 2022-23   Serious Fraud Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Serious Fraud Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit 57,773,000 8,302,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 2,500,000
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 58,124,000 Total 60,273,000
8,302,000 58,124,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Administration of The Serious Fraud Office (SFO) including
staff costs, capital and operational costs, fees to counsel and outside
accountants, witness expenses, use of information technology to analyse and
review documents and improve the presentation of evidence, other
investigation, prosecution and litigation costs, defendants' costs and damages
ordered to be paid by the SFO.       Providing advice and assistance to
support the United Kingdom's exit from the EU: payments made as a result of
asset recovery schemes and deferred prosecution agreements and associated non-
cash costs falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Recovery of
income awarded to the SFO in court; receipts for services provided by the SFO
and receipts from any asset recovery schemes or deferred prosecution
agreements.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Provision cover for legal costs arising from events during the
year.

  HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor, 2022-23   HM Procurator
General and Treasury Solicitor       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Procurator General and Treasury Solicitor
Departmental Expenditure Limit 11,818,000 2,850,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 15,330,000 Total
11,818,000 2,850,000 15,330,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration of HM Procurator General and
Treasury Solicitor's Department comprising the Government Legal Department,
the Attorney General's Office and HM Crown Prosecution Service Inspectorate
and costs and fees for providing legal and other services, and non-cash items
in DEL. Includes programme costs associated with continuing work on EU Exit
Transition. Staff costs associated with Covid-19 related staff loans.
Income arising from:       Recovery of costs from other government departments
and associated bodies including costs recovered for legal and administrative
services provided and receipts from secondments of staff; favourable costs
awarded; cost awards made by the courts in favour of the Attorney General;
charges for Bona Vacantia work; recovery of costs from tenants in jointly
occupied buildings; income in relation to the Government Legal Service
operation; subscription services; photocopying services; receipts from sales
of fixed assets and non-capital items; rent and rate rebates; recovery of old
debts; receipts from staff; income from ICT services and other administrative
income.

  Ministry of Defence, 2022-23   Ministry of Defence       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Defence Departmental
Expenditure Limit 40,896,779,000 18,490,656,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
1,928,087,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 50,637,665,000
Total 42,824,866,000 18,490,656,000 50,637,665,000 Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Ongoing military commitments,
including identifying and countering the threat of terrorist attack on the UK
Mainland and maintaining the integrity of UK waters and airspace. Contributing
to the community, including through the administration of cadet forces, costs
of assistance to other Government Departments and civil agencies. Defence
engagement and delivery of agreed goods in support of wider British interests.
Delivering military capability, including the full costs of front line troops
including attributed costs of logistical, Infrastructure and personnel support
costs. Research on the equipment and non-equipment programme. Provision of
financial interventions to the private and Charitable sector in support of
delivery of departmental outputs. To support Ministers and Parliament.
Undertake strategic management and corporate services. Pensions and other
payments/allowances for disablement or death arising out of war or service in
the Armed Forces after 2 September 1939. Awards to surviving members of
British groups held prisoner by the Japanese during the Second World War (Far
Eastern Prisoners of War) or their surviving spouse. Pensions and other
payments in respect of service in the Armed Forces at other times, excluding
claims under the Armed Forces Compensation Scheme and Armed Forces pension
scheme.       Personnel costs of the Armed Forces and their Reserves, Cadet
forces. Personnel costs of Defence Ministers, civilian staff employed by the
Ministry of Defence and contractors working on Defence contracts. Procurement
of Defence assets including the development and production of equipment and
weapon systems for the Armed Forces. Support to the nuclear warhead and
fissile material programme.       Research by contract. Wider procurement
services including those on repayment terms, purchases for sale abroad,
purchases for gifting abroad, contractor costs including on redundancy.
The repair, maintenance, stores, support and supply services for Defence
including associated capital facilities and works, plant and machinery.
Movements of Defence assets including the contracting for vehicles (to include
chartering of ships, trains and planes), and the wider logistic services for
the Armed Forces and supporting groups.       Land and buildings facilities
management and works services. Services provided by other Government
Departments. Sundry services, subscriptions, grants, including support to
Armed Forces charities and other payments, assistance to Foreign and
Commonwealth Governments for defence-related purposes.        UK youth
community projects. Spending on, including set-up costs and loans to, Trading
Funds, Arm's Length Bodies and other Designated Defence Bodies.       In
support of Military operations over and above the costs of maintaining the
units involved at their normal state of readiness. The net additional
programme costs for early warning, crisis management, conflict resolution,
humanitarian efforts, peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building
activities in other parts of the World. The net additional costs of associated
strengthening of international regional systems through, but not exclusive of,
capacity-building and other stabilisation activities.       Personnel costs of
the Armed Forces and their Reserves includes provision for Regular Naval and
Marine Services to a number not exceeding 39,550; provision for the Regular
Army Service to a number not exceeding 109,670; provision for Regular Air
Force Service to a number not exceeding 36,500; and provision for Officers,
Men and Women in the Reserve Forces not exceeding the numbers specified in
respect of each Reserve Force for the purposes of Parts 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the
Reserve Forces Act 1996 in House of Commons paper No. 980 of Session 2021-22.
Income arising from:       Provision of services to Foreign Governments and
Other Government Departments. Payments for services provided by Trading Funds,
Arm's Length Bodies and other Designated Defence Bodies. Dividends, Interest
and loan repayments from Trading Funds, Arm's Length Bodies and other
Designated Defence Bodies. Sale of assets. Recovery of costs from personnel.
Rent for use of Ministry of Defence property and miscellaneous receipts.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The
creation and revaluation of provisions; impairments due to the revaluation of
assets, unforeseen obsolescence and losses caused by catastrophic events. Bad
debts and Foreign exchange gains and losses.       Costs associated with
decommissioning.

  Security and Intelligence Agencies, 2022-23   Security and Intelligence
Agencies       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Security and Intelligence Agencies Departmental Expenditure Limit
3,124,830,000 1,242,746,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 65,277,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 3,866,007,000 Total 3,190,107,000
1,242,746,000 3,866,007,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Administration and operational costs, research and
development works, equipment and other payments, and associated depreciation
and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.           Income arising from:
The sale of services to other government departments, the recovery of costs of
staff on loan, recovery from staff for miscellaneous items and certain other
services. The sale of fixed assets, freehold interest and land.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Provisions and other non-cash items.

  Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, 2022-23   Foreign,
Commonwealth and Development Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 7,904,373,000 2,644,554,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 560,666,000 200,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 10,450,977,000 Total 8,465,039,000 2,844,554,000 10,450,977,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Development and humanitarian assistance under the International Development
Act 2002 through financial and technical assistance to governments,
institutions, voluntary agencies and individuals for activities including:
strengthening global peace, security and governance; strengthening resilience
and response to crisis; promoting global prosperity; tackling extreme poverty
and helping the world's most vulnerable; delivering value for money and
delivery efficiency in FCDO; continued assistance to UK Overseas Territories;
costs relating to investments in public corporations and shareholdings in
private sector companies.       Wilton Park Executive Agency; the British
Council; BBC World Service; spending by ALBs:       Commonwealth Scholarship
Commission (CSC) on scholarships to individuals from Commonwealth countries;
Independent Commission for Aid Impact (ICAI), an advisory ALB which provides
independent scrutiny of UK Aid in order to promote the delivery of value for
money for British taxpayers and the maximisation of the impact of aid;
Westminster Foundation for Democracy; Great Britain-China Centre and the
Marshall Aid Commemoration Commission.       Diplomacy; hospitality and
facilities; international organisations; information services; scholarships
and sponsored visits; consular assistance; special payments and assistance;
programmes supporting foreign policy objectives including human rights, good
governance, international security, the fight against the illicit drug trade
and promoting our prosperity.       Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.       Conflict prevention, early warning, crisis
management, conflict resolution/peace-making, peace-keeping and peace-building
activity and associated strengthening of international and regional systems
and capacity.       Operational and legal costs, related capital expenditure,
administration costs and associated depreciation and other non-cash costs
falling in DEL.           Income arising from:       Capital repayments and
receipt of interest on development assistance and budget support loans;
management fees relating to loan guarantees; refunds of payments made under UK
guarantees to the European Investment Bank; recoveries from other government
departments; recovery of advances from procurement agents.       Receipts for
seconded officers and country based staff; rental income; recoveries from
staff for use of official vehicles; refund of rental and rates payments; rent
uplifts and sub-letting; abatements and settlement of legal cases; the sale of
information material; sales of surplus property, material and equipment;
legalisation fees collected at both home and abroad; telephone and postage
recoveries; medical scheme recoveries, bank interest and sundry receipts;
repayment by locally engaged staff of loans for car purchase and medical and
other assistance.       Other Government Departments for the FCDO platform;
grants; receipts from overseas governments and other third parties in respect
of programme funds and receipts from overseas governments in respect of
bilateral country and sector programmes.       Visa and passport services
provided at consular offices; repayments of sums advanced to distressed
British Nationals.       Wilton Park Executive Agency receipts from customers
for running costs, sales and rents; Hospitality Section, Conference and Visits
Group; Lancaster House receipts.       Income from debentures/shares issued to
FCDO by CDC Group plc and other private sector entities; and other income in
relation to capital assets; interest and dividends from Public Corporations;
sales into Wider Markets, use of assets and sponsorships.           Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Non-cash movements
in provisions including contributions to International Finance Facility for
Immunisation (IFFIm) and Advanced Market Commitments (AMC); change in fair
value of financial instruments and other non-cash costs falling in AME; the
re-capitalisation of CDC Group plc.       The refund of certain taxes and
duties paid by certain foreign and commonwealth governments.           Income
arising from:       Non-cash accounting adjustments on the loan portfolio.

  Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, 2022-23   Department
for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and Communities
3,092,553,000 9,583,853,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit - Local Government
11,765,870,000 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 15,097,975,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 32,242,272,000 Total 29,956,398,000
9,583,853,000 32,242,272,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit - Housing and
Communities         Expenditure arising from:       Increasing the supply of
affordable housing and supporting home ownership and diversifying the housing
market; policies and activities regulating and helping people access the
housing market, whether they are renting or looking to buy; policies to
improve housing quality; supporting infrastructure and planning programmes
including policy; buying, remediating and selling land for housing and
economic development, preventing homelessness, and supporting people to stay
in their homes.       Supporting local economies across the United Kingdom to
boost productivity and deliver inclusive growth for all our communities,
cultural institutions and society in general; economic growth and devolving
powers and responsibilities at a local level; European Union (EU) structural
funds; UK Holocaust Memorial project.       Supporting local authorities and
communities; bringing them together; emergency assistance and financial
support to local authorities and communities; encouraging race, gender and
faith equality; helping support troubled families and victims of domestic
violence and child sexual exploitation; tackling extremism and promoting
cohesive communities; Gypsy and Traveller policy.       Supporting effective
local government to deliver public services to local people, driving
efficiencies andtransformation; encouraging action at neighbourhood level;
legacy and historic programmes previously run by the Department including
payments to the Valuation Office Agency; research and development programmes.
Responsibility for keeping the Grenfell Tower site safe and secure until a
decision is made about its future. Supporting residents and victims of the
Grenfell fire and engaging with the Grenfell Tower Memorial Commission.
Delivery of the Building Safety Portfolio, support and monitor the
rectification of safety issues within buildings; review the current building
safety system and to implement changes to that system as they are required;
delivery of energy performance regime. UK-wide delivery of insurance products
to rectify building safety issues, and the UK-wide delivery of a National
Regulator for Construction Products.       Exiting the EU and net spending by
Arm's Length Bodies (ALBs) and public corporations, including Homes England.
Expenditure relating to any of the above areas in the form of: equity
investment, or making loans through advances of principal (financial
transactions); using a payment by results mechanism; the creation of
liabilities and expenditure related to a financial guarantee or similar
financial instrument given by the Department; providing grant funding to
charities; providing funding through endowments as laid out in Managing Public
Money; social investment models; purchase and management of exchange rate
contracts to hedge exposure risk; financial transactions devolved to and
delivered by local authorities.       Administration of the Department for
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, its ALBs, and associated offices,
ensuring that they deliver on the Department's objectives.
Administration and operation of the department in connection with maintaining
the integrity of the Union, and sustaining a flourishing democracy.
Income arising from:       Increasing the supply of affordable housing and
supporting home ownership and diversifying the housing market; policies and
activities regulating and helping people access the housing market, buying and
selling land for housing and economic development; capital pooled housing
receipts; planning programmes and policy.       Supporting local economies
across the country to boost productivity and deliver inclusive growth for all
our communities and economic growth; EU structural funds and European Regional
Development Fund programme; city deals.       Supporting effective local
government to deliver public services to local people, driving efficiencies
and transformation; supporting local authorities; disabled facilities grant;
legacy and historic programmes previously run by the Department; research and
development programmes.       Exiting the EU and net spending by ALBs and
public corporations, including Homes England.       Delivery of the Building
Safety portfolio and energy performance regime.       Income relating to any
of the above areas in the form of: equity investment, or making loans through
advances of principal (financial transactions); using a payment by results
mechanism; fees and charges including by ALBs; creation of liabilities and
expenditure related to a financial guarantee or similar financial instrument
given by the Department; purchase and management of exchange rate contracts to
hedge exposure risk; financial transactions devolved to and delivered by local
authorities.       Administration of the Department for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities, its ALBs, and associated offices, ensuring that they deliver
on the Department's objectives and any activities listed in the expenditure
section.       Philanthropic donations towards the construction and management
of the Holocaust Memorial and Learning Centre.       Deposits forfeited by
candidates in an election.       Insurance schemes.           Departmental
Expenditure Limit - Local Government         Expenditure arising from:
Supporting effective local government to deliver public services to local
people.       Financial support to local authorities and specified bodies
including grant payments; including revenue support grant, business rates
retention including transitional relief; business rate relief measures and
Covid-19 measures.       Supporting social care and independent living; local
government devolved powers.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Debt payments relating to housing stock;
charges on financial products' repayments of excess contributions made by
local authorities; provision for future liabilities, impairments, and exchange
rate movements including on financial instruments (including guarantees);
business rates retention; hedging.       Supporting effective local government
to deliver public services to local people and net spending by our ALBs and
other public bodies not classified as ALBs and setting up of new Development
Corporations.       Movements arising from pension schemes of the Department
and its ALBs; other public bodies not classified as ALBs.       Supporting
communities to respond and recover from Covid-19.           Income arising
from:       Supporting effective local government to deliver public services
to local people.

  Department for Transport, 2022-23   Department for Transport       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Transport
Departmental Expenditure Limit 16,606,458,000 20,127,410,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 4,981,239,000 -326,989,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 31,810,524,000 Total 21,587,697,000 19,800,421,000 31,810,524,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Improving transport connections across the United Kingdom. Support of
transport-related activities including roads; vehicles and driving; rail;
shipping and maritime; mountain rescue; ports; sustainable travel; aviation;
search and rescue; local transport; transport security and safety; and highway
services. Net spending by arm's length bodies. Grants to Transport for London
and local authorities in respect of local transport programmes. Support for
other minor transport services; use of European funding for transport-related
schemes; administrative costs and associated other non-cash items falling in
DEL. Smart-ticketing and related technology. Work to support the government's
new relationship with the EU under the Trade and Cooperation Agreement and
associated workstreams. Grants to Transport for the North and Statutory
Bodies. Loans for Shimmer Relocation Assistance Scheme and transport-related
activities. Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic. The
Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. Financial assistance under the UK
Internal Markets Act 2020 in any area of the United Kingdom. Losses and
special payments relating to the administration of the Department for
Transport and its associated Agencies. Rail reform.           Income arising
from:       Sales of assets; loan repayments; interest receivable and European
grants for transport-related activities including roads; vehicles and driving;
rail; shipping and maritime; mountain rescue; ports; sustainable travel;
aviation; search and rescue; local transport; transport security and safety;
highway services. Shipping and maritime income including, but not limited to
Registration fees. Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part. Dividend income from
shareholdings. Public Sector Decarbonisation Scheme. Fees for use of clean air
zones central services.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Grant and pension provisions and associated
non-cash costs incurred by the Department for Transport and its associated
agencies in respect of transport-related activities including roads; vehicle
and driving; rail; sustainable travel; aviation; local transport; transport
security and safety; and highway services. Shipping and maritime activities.
Other costs incurred by the Department for Transport and its associated
agencies in respect of transport-related activities including Payments to
General Lighthouse Authorities. Net spending by arm's length bodies.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.           Income
arising from:       Loan repayments and other income for transport-related
activities. Dividends and interest receivable.

  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, 2022-23
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy Departmental Expenditure Limit 17,168,799,000
19,061,585,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 54,855,478,000 3,838,923,000 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 51,061,529,000 Total 72,024,277,000
22,900,508,000 51,061,529,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The promotion of enterprise, innovation and
increased productivity delivered through international trade and investment,
regional investment and delivering regulatory reform, and measures to combat
international bribery and corruption.       The provision of support for
business, including support for specific industries, small and medium
businesses, regional programmes, programmes to promote research and
development, innovation and standards, best practice and sustainable
development.       The provision of financial solutions to accelerate private
sector investment and address market failures through the British Business
Bank, and other similar intervention mechanisms.       The promotion of
strong, fair and competitive markets at home and abroad; measures to protect
investors and consumers including from unsafe products and unfair practices;
support for employment relations programmes and measures to promote a skilled
and flexible labour market.       The efficient management and discharge of
liabilities falling to the Department and its partner organisations, including
nuclear waste management and decommissioning, and liabilities in respect of
former shipbuilding industry and former coal industry employees.       The
efficient management and discharge of specific costs falling to the Department
and its partner organisations relating to outstanding personal injury claims
against Thomas Cook.       The management of the Government's shareholder
interest in the portfolio of commercial businesses wholly or partly owned by
Government; providing financial assistance to public corporations, and trading
funds.       The management of miscellaneous programmes including payments in
respect of claims for the restitution of the property of victims of Nazi
persecution.       The payment of subscriptions and contributions to
international organisations and fulfilment of international treaty
obligations.       Increasing science and research excellence in the United
Kingdom and maximising its contribution to society.       Support for space
related programmes.       Support for the activities of the Position,
Navigation and Timing (PNT) Office.       Making payments to local authorities
in respect of Local Area Agreements and New Burdens responsibilities.
Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Support for energy-related activities including regulation, civil emergency
planning, energy resilience measures, environmental remediation and support
and facilitation for new and sustainable or more efficient, or less carbon
intensive energy sources, technologies, transmission and storage, security and
non-proliferation.       Respond to fuel poverty needs.       Support for
consumer and household energy bills.       Measures to improve energy
efficiency, security and environmental practice; payments to energy companies
to reduce the impact of BEIS policies on bills.       Work towards
international agreement on climate change; promote and support actions to
reduce national and global greenhouse gas emissions; climate modelling and
risk assessment.       Safety, environment and social impact programmes
relating to nuclear sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet
Union and other countries where future G8 Global Partnership related
initiatives may be pursued.       Inspections and compliance in accordance
with EU regulatory requirements and recovery of expenditure through cost
sharing arrangements.       Specialist support services, staff management and
development; other departmental administration and non-cash costs; payments
towards the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority Combined Pension Scheme
deficit; exchange risk and other guarantee losses; publicity, promotion,
publications, knowledge sharing initiatives and departmental research and
development; surveys, monitoring, statistics, advice and consultancies;
management of asset sales; Investment Security Unit; contributions to fund
cross government initiatives; Payments to HM Treasury towards the cost of
Infrastructure UK.       Expenditure arising from the UK's departure from the
European Union.       Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic.       Grants to local authorities.       Funding organisations
supporting departmental objectives, including the department's executive
agencies and arm's length bodies and their subsidiaries.       The provision
of financial solutions to accelerate private sector investment and address
market failures through New Innovation Finance Products.       Support for
high risk projects with potential for transformative change through the
Advanced Research and Invention Agency (ARIA), including set up costs.
Income arising from:       Receipts from other Government Departments and
devolved administrations; the Advisory, Conciliation and Arbitration Service;
the Insolvency Service.       Receipts from statutory regulators in respect of
expenses related to levies from industry.       Receipts from licences and
levies; Launch Investment receipts; Capital Venture Funds receipts; premium
income and other receipts from Financial Guarantee schemes, and of dividends;
equity withdrawals; interest on loans and loan repayments from the Land
Registry, Ordnance Survey, Met Office, UK Intellectual Property Office and
National Physical Laboratory. Income from investments; receipts from financial
investments made by the British Business Bank and UK Research and Innovation;
repayment of loans and investments; repayment of capital grants; repayments of
grants and contributions; receipts from asset sales.       European Fast
Stream receipts; repayment of working capital loans; receipts from outside
organisations  (including the EU) in respect of advertising and publicity
activities and materials; sale of research publications; receipts from the
European Social Fund to cover departmental programmes; sponsorship funding.
Receipts and profit from the sale of surplus land, buildings and equipment;
rental income and repayments including from three domestic properties on the
estate of the European School of Culture at Culham, Oxfordshire and from the
National Physical Laboratory. Receipts associated with the closure of Partner
Organisations.       Receipts from LifeArc/MRC Technology, the Ufi Charitable
Trust, and subsidiaries and shares in joint ventures of UK Research and
Innovation, and other partner organisations, the public weather service and
mapping services. Commercial loan recoveries in relation to UK Coal Production
Limited.       General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.       Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part.       Government
carbon offsetting scheme receipts.       Receipt and retention of financial
securities relating to the decommissioning of renewable devices such as
offshore wind.       Receipts relating to the oil and gas industries
(including petroleum licensing and levy receipts).       Project Camelot Levy
Receipts.       Proceeds of Crime income generated in criminal enforcement.
Receipts relating to the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.           Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The efficient
management and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department and its
partner organisations, including nuclear waste management and decommissioning
and liabilities in respect of former shipbuilding industry and former coal
industry employees.       Bad debts, impairments and provisions; other non-
cash items.       Departmental administration; financial guarantee schemes;
regional investment and programmes; enterprise for small and medium firms;
provision of support for business, including support for specific industries;
support for innovation and research activity; miscellaneous programmes.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       The
management of asset sales.       Payment of corporation tax.       The
provision of repayable credit facilities for Post Office Ltd; contributions to
partner organisations' pension schemes, such as the Research Councils' Pension
Scheme; and the provision of parental leave schemes.       Activities of UK
Government Investments on behalf of the Department.       Renewable Heat
Incentive including Renewable Heat Premium Payments.       The expenditure of
The NESTA Trust.       Impairment of loans and investments; Exchange rate
gains and losses.       Efficient discharge of liabilities relating to
contracts for difference for the supply of electricity.       The Redundancy
Payments Service.           Income arising from:       Receipts from Trading
Funds.       Receipts from asset sales.       Income relating to repayment and
recoveries of compensation and legal costs, distribution of surpluses from
coal industry pension schemes and coal privatisation receipts.       Refund of
input VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; interest
payments; repayments of grants and contributions; non-cash income.
Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the Department.
Receipt of interest on loans and loan repayments from Post Office Ltd;
receipts and income from investments in respect of The NESTA Trust.
Income from Enrichment Holdings Ltd in respect of dividends from shares held
by Enrichment Investments Ltd in URENCO.       Dividends from shares held by
Postal Services Holding Ltd in Royal Mail.       Receipts relating to the
Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.

  HM Land Registry, 2022-23   HM Land Registry       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Land Registry Departmental Expenditure
Limit 422,419,000 65,600,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 19,000,000 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 459,109,000 Total 441,419,000
65,600,000 459,109,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Support and operational costs, transformation, technology,
equipment, other payments, associated depreciation and any other non-cash
costs falling in DEL. Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The
disposal, sale or donation of capital assets.           Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Provisions and other non-
cash items. Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic.

  Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport, 2022-23   Department for
Digital, Culture, Media and Sport       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport
Departmental Expenditure Limit 2,244,882,000 830,915,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 4,309,817,000 904,523,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 6,819,836,000 Total 6,554,699,000 1,735,438,000 6,819,836,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration, operating and legal costs of the Department and grants to
other government departments. Net spending and sponsorship of Arm's Length
Bodies (ALBs), sponsored bodies and associated offices.       Delivery of
Covid-19 response activities for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport sectors,
including loan book management and insurance schemes.       Research,
development and surveys. Funding for UK membership of various international
organisations.       The closure or restructure of organisations and legal
cases. Management of overseas development funding for digital development and
cultural protection.       Support for the cultural and heritage sectors,
libraries and archive institutions. The government indemnity scheme, Blythe
House programme and Unboxed: Creativity in the UK.       Royal Palaces,
national heritage and historic buildings, ancient monuments and sites, Listed
Places of Worship schemes, memorials and ceremonial occasions.       Promoting
trade, inward investment and global engagement.       Investment in elite and
community/grassroots sport and facilities. Delivery of 2012 Olympic and
Paralympic games legacy, The Commonwealth Games 2022 and related programmes,
Her Majesty The Queen's Platinum Jubilee celebrations, and bidding for and
staging of major sporting events.       Expenditure associated with ensuring
that commercial gambling is socially responsible and that the National Lottery
and society lotteries are effectively regulated.       Delivery and
sponsorship of digital infrastructure and telecommunications, including
Building Digital UK delivery. Sponsorship and support of the digital economy.
The enablement of the use of digital identity products across the UK economy.
National Cyber Security Strategy and Programme and responsibilities concerning
security and resilience of the UK telecoms sector.       The development of
technical digital standards. Tackling harmful content online, counter
misinformation and disinformation. Supporting the UK Council for Child
Internet Safety.       Development and implementation of economic security
policy in relation to digital and emerging technologies. The promotion and
facilitation of digital trade.       Sponsorship and support for the creative
industries. Support for broadcasting, radio, journalism, alcohol, gambling,
film and video licensing, the Gambling Commission and regulatory regimes and
schemes.       Development of data policy for the economy and society,
including the National Data Strategy. Work to enable trustworthy data
innovation in the public and private sector. Development of policy and
legislation to establish a new pro-competition regulatory regime for digital
markets. International activity to further the government's digital policy
objectives.       Building a stronger civil society through a range of public,
private and civil society partners, and increasing services, facilities and
positive activities for young people, including the National Citizen Service.
Associated non-cash costs in DEL.           Income arising from:
Proceeds from the sale of properties, assets and the early release of office
leases, fees and charges for licences and receipts from concessionaires and
sponsors, fees for provision of corporate and technology services, repayment
of grants, fees charged for Subject Access Requests and data protection
enquiries and repayment of loan principal and related interest.       Other
government departments, ALBs, devolved administrations, local authorities, and
the private sector.       Covid-19 response activities for Digital, Culture,
Media and Sport sectors.       Government Art Collection, recovery of
commemorative and ceremonial costs, recovery of costs for repairs to listed
buildings.       Heritage items received under the Cultural Gifts scheme and
passed to the Acceptance in Lieu panel.       The National Lottery
Distribution Fund, National Lottery operator's licence fees and recoveries
from the issue of licensing certificates.       The legacy of the Olympic and
Paralympic Games 2012, Commonwealth Games 2022, Unboxed: Creativity in the UK
and related programmes.       Voluntary donations to fund a new Queen's Award
for Voluntary Service operating system.       The sale of radio spectrum and
contributions from other government departments toward the costs of joint
schemes.       The costs awarded in the Floe Telecom Court Case.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Funding
the BBC, Channel Four, and regulators sponsored by the department. Provisions,
impairments and other AME expenditure from DCMS and its sponsored bodies.
Lottery grants. Associated non-cash costs in AME.

  Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, 2022-23   Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 4,790,464,000 2,126,323,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 305,634,000 49,849,000 Non-budget Expenditure 10,000,000 Net Cash
Requirement 7,296,072,000 Total 5,106,098,000 2,176,172,000 7,296,072,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Expenditure by Natural England and the Environment Agency. Represent forestry
interests, encourage good forestry practice, sustainable forest management and
conduct forest research. International policy, research, standard-setting and
monitoring to support sustainable forestry. Land grants, countryside access
and rights of way. Policy on commons, national parks and town and village
greens. Environmental protection and conservation, maintain air and ozone
quality, increase UK's environmental decontamination capabilities, deliver
social, environmental and economic programmes; Maintain water quality and a
resilient supply, support for management of inland waterways and obligations
under the Water Act 2003 and Water Act 2014. Support terrestrial, marine,
waterway environments and protection of water bodies. Fair charges for supply
of water and provision of sewerage services to customers. Support protection
of species, wildlife management, habitat protection and conservation. Support
national and global biodiversity, geodiversity and research. Support for rural
and regional development. Better waste management. Promotion and support for
sustainable development, consumption and production. Supporting development of
farming and cost-sharing initiatives, payments, losses and penalties relating
to the administration of European Union (EU) schemes including disallowance.
Compensation payments to producers and support for agriculture. Championing
hygienic production, marketing, delivery and processing in the agriculture,
fisheries and food industries. Support bee and fish conservation and health,
UK's responsibilities under the Convention on International Trade in
Endangered Species (CITES) and fishing industry. Support keeping, movement
tracing, trade with Northern Ireland, the EU and Internationally, health and
welfare of animals, animal products and by-products, and marketing. Support a
sustainable, secure and healthy food supply; food labelling and composition
policy.       Flood risk management and development implications, land
drainage and sewerage. Exotic and endemic animal and plant disease policy
portfolio and eradication. Regulatory systems for chemicals, veterinary
medicines and pesticides. Radioactive waste management, justifying authority
for new nuclear power, pollution emergency response services, noise mapping
and manage other environmental risks. Consultation on town, urban and country
developments. Climate modelling, risk assessment and adaptation.       Costs
associated with ongoing repatriation of functions and funds following exit
from the EU and ongoing responses to the Covid-19 pandemic. Specialist support
services; legacy and residual delivery body costs; subsidies to support
delivery bodies; staff management and development; other departmental
administration and non-cash costs; publicity, promotion; awareness and
publications; knowledge-sharing initiatives; research and development;
surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice and consultancies; funding through
Area-Based Grants; subscriptions and contributions to international
organisations; international policy-making; working with the EU; licensing,
approvals and certification; inspections; compliance and enforcement in
accordance with regulatory requirements. Voted Loans in relation to National
Museums.           Income arising from:       Devolved administrations,
overseas Governments and European Commission; delivery body funding
contributions; provision of employee and financial shared services to other
public sector bodies; surveys; receipts from sale of carcasses and vaccines;
income from licensing; regulatory income; approvals; investments; interest
gained; donations and bequests; commercial activities; certification;
publications; public inquiries; information; inspections; registrations;
supervision and extensification; administration of grant; waste disposal;
recovery of costs incurred for Covid-19 waste water testing; capital loan
schemes; commissioned surveys; research; studies and provision of advice;
rental income and repayments; income from sale of electricity generated on
Defra group sites; occupancy charge; administrative training and professional
services; pension and redundancy contributions and knowledge-sharing
initiatives.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Levy collection; publicity, promotion, awareness and
publications; research and development; market and supply chain analysis and
support; packaging recovery support; licensing, approvals and certification.
Specialist support services; staff management and development; delivery body
funding contributions; surveys; monitoring; statistics; advice and
consultancies; provision for future liabilities; bad debts; depreciation;
revaluations and impairment losses; legacy and residual delivery body costs.
Promotion of affordable insurance in relation to flood risk.           Non-
Budget Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payments to
devolved administrations.           Income arising from:       Funding
contributions to support delivery bodies.

  Department for International Trade, 2022-23   Department for International
Trade       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Department for International Trade Departmental Expenditure Limit 570,522,000
24,850,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 3,000,000 1,195,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 598,563,000 Total 573,522,000 26,045,000
598,563,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Trade development and promotion, outward and inward investment, the
formulation and implementation of trade policy and remedies, contribution to
the cross government GREAT campaign, the administration of Official
Development Assistance and Trade Remedies Authority; support Trade Remedies
Authority as an arm's length body; including grants, associated capital and
other related expenditure and non-cash items, developing trade relationships
and supporting supply chain management and resilience, launching and defending
UK trade disputes and UK's present and future relationship with the World
Trade Organization.       Administration of the Department for International
Trade, and associated offices; publicity, promotion and publications;
communications; purchase, acquisition, hire, lease and rent of land,
buildings, plant, equipment, machinery, vehicles and capital assets; digital
and IT; special payments.           Income arising from:       The sale of
goods and services relating to trade development and promotion, outward and
inward investment, the formulation and implementation of trade policy,
contribution to the cross government GREAT campaign and the administration of
Official Development Assistance; including sponsorship; asset sales; insurance
claims; recovery of costs incurred on behalf of others; recovery of
overpayment; capital grant in kind, income from grant programmes.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Depreciation, amortisation, revaluation, provisions and other non-cash items.

  Department for Work and Pensions, 2022-23   Department for Work and Pensions
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department
for Work and Pensions Departmental Expenditure Limit 8,377,703,000 803,813,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 109,960,220,000 327,656,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 4,690,524,000 Net Cash Requirement 124,434,062,000 Total
123,028,447,000 1,131,469,000 124,434,062,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Payments relating to the administration and
operating costs of the Department to enable the Department to fulfil its
obligations to all its client groups as well as supporting the Governmental
response to the ongoing and longer-term impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and
the increased costs of living.       Expenditure promoting the Department's
aims and objectives in other organisations including Government Departments,
Local Authorities, Devolved Administrations and Crown and Executive Non-
Departmental Public Bodies, including the Health and Safety Executive, Remploy
Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd, the Money and Pensions Service including the
provision of money and debt advice and the Department's pensions and advisory
arm's length bodies and private, public and voluntary organisations.       The
costs incurred from the collection of debt arising from overpayments of
benefit and on behalf of other public and private sector bodies.       Costs
associated with providing training and employment projects assisted by the
European Union (EU) through the European Social Fund and expenditure relating
to exiting the EU.       Information Technology, employee and financial
services to other public sector bodies and data technology services. Policy,
research, and publicity supporting the Department's activities. The UK's
subscription to the International Labour Organisation and international
educational programmes. Assistance and advice on employment and labour market
issues to international organisations and measures and assistance to promote
financial and digital inclusion.       Employment and training programmes.
Payment of appropriate grants, loans, compensation, benefits, and allowances.
Assisting people to make plans for their retirement, including research into
pensions, provision of pension guidance, private pension industry regulatory
work, programmes, and measures to help improve independence and social
inclusion for older people.       Provision for general levy payments to arm's
length bodies.       Subsidies to housing, billing, levying and local
authorities for administration and payment of Housing Benefit and other
locally delivered support.       Depreciation and any other non-cash costs
falling in DEL including losses, special payments and write offs.
Income arising from:       The administration of the Department and its Crown
and Executive Non-Departmental Public Bodies in delivering their statutory
responsibilities, in accordance with the prevailing legislation and
regulations. This includes receipts from staff, outward secondments, sale of
capital assets and non-capital items, the recovery of court costs, services
carried out on behalf of public and private sector bodies and members of the
public, EU activity, levy funded bodies and other associated income.
Receipts in respect of recoveries of payments and income from other government
departments and devolved administrations in respect of services the Department
provides.       Donations and bequests.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       The payment of pensions, social security and
other benefits, grants, loans, allowances and payments to people of working
age, pensioners, and people with disabilities and their carers, in accordance
with the prevailing legislation and regulations, including the Governmental
response to the ongoing and longer term impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and
the increased costs of living.       Subsidies to employers and payments to
help employers manage sickness absence and associated public health measures
as a consequence of the ongoing and longer-term impacts of the Covid-19
pandemic.       Costs and payments associated with the collapse of private
pension schemes.       Other losses, special payments and write offs together
with provisions and other non-cash costs falling in AME.           Non-Budget
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payment of the Grant to
the Social Fund to fund Regulated, Discretionary and Winter Fuel payments.
Other relevant non-budget expenditure.

  HM Revenue and Customs, 2022-23   HM Revenue and Customs       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Revenue and Customs
Departmental Expenditure Limit 6,122,187,000 675,511,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 13,278,381,000 110,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 19,693,843,000 Total 19,400,568,000 675,621,000 19,693,843,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration in management, collection and payment of a range of taxes, tax
credits, benefits, reliefs, refunds, duties, levies, Statutory Payments,
allowances, loans, entitlements, regulatory and verification schemes.
Delivering policies held by other government departments, assistance to
devolved administrations and public bodies.       Law enforcement, criminal
investigation and provision of resources to independent investigatory bodies
including the Adjudicator's Office. Payments for the HMRC National Museum and
grants to the voluntary and community sector.       International Tax
Cooperation Agreements, customs controls, overseas tax administration,
Official Development Assistance and support of projects abroad.
Providing shared services, Revenue and Customs Digital Technology Services
Limited, services provided to third parties and provision of trade
information.       Administration of the National Insurance Funds for Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.       European Union transition and
implementation of trade agreements.       Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Payments to assist with Cost of Living.
Non-cash items falling in DEL.       Valuations, administration, setting and
maintaining of assessments, advice, property services, payments of Local
Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign countries and non-cash items
incurred by the Valuation Office Agency. All activities, including ensuring
that systems are maintained and updated as necessary, to enable the integrity
of the lists for current use and preparing for any possible future
revaluations.           Income arising from:       Tax reliefs, entitlements,
levies, regulatory and verification schemes.       Recovery of costs
associated with debt collection and other law costs, overpayments, insurance
and compensation claims, staff costs, apprenticeships funding, valuation and
other services, transaction fees and excess cash receipts, and other services.
Services provided to the Valuation Office Agency, Revenue and Customs Digital
Technology Services Limited, other government departments, devolved
administrations, other bodies and international parties and providing shared
services.       Charges made for attendance of officers, international
commitments, travel expenses, use of cars and rent, and other services.
Sales of assets, information, publications, statistical services, certificates
and other services.       The Asset Recovery Incentivisation Scheme and other
receipts. Recovery of administration costs of the National Insurance Funds,
collection of National Insurance contributions.       Income arising from
contributions to programmes conducted on behalf of government.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Recoveries
of income from other government departments (including grants).       Non-cash
items falling in DEL.       Valuations, administration, setting and
maintaining of assessments, advice, property services, payments of Local
Authority Rates on behalf of accredited foreign countries and non-cash items
incurred by the Valuation Office Agency.           Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Tax credits, benefits,
reliefs, refunds, duties, levies, allowances and entitlements.
Remittance of irrecoverable debts, losses on asset revaluation and exchange
rate movements. Incentive payments for filing, transitional payments to
charities, provisions movements and payments that add capacity to debt
recovery.       Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.
Non-cash items falling in AME.       Payments of Rates on behalf of accredited
Commonwealth and foreign countries and certain internationalorganisations and
non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Payments of Rates by
accredited Commonwealth and foreign countries and certain international
organisations, refunds from local authorities.

  HM Treasury, 2022-23   HM Treasury       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Treasury Departmental Expenditure Limit
364,380,000 9,721,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 20,206,518,000
1,408,087,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 11,633,885,000
Total 20,570,898,000 1,417,808,000 11,633,885,000 Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Core Treasury functions covering
economic and financial matters, including promoting and supporting the
financial services sector, illegal money lending, a financial sanctions
regime, consumer credit, legal claims and the provision of guarantees.
Assistance and compensation to institutions, businesses and individuals. The
purchase of investments, honours and dignities, gilt administration
compensation payments, business support measures and the administration costs
of the department.       The Debt Management Office (DMO), including work for
HM Treasury, other government departments and the Bank of England.       The
Government Internal Audit Agency, the Office of Tax Simplification, the
National Infrastructure Commission, and infrastructure finance, including
internationally.       Spending on Treasury related bodies including the
Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), the UK Infrastructure Bank
(Infrastructure Finance Unit Limited), IUK Investments Limited, IUK
Investments Holdings Limited, HMT UK Sovereign SUKUK plc, the Royal Mint
Advisory Committee on the design of Coins, Medals, Seals and Decorations, UK
Government Investments Limited and UK Asset Resolution Limited.       The
governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic, depreciation and
other non-cash items in DEL.           Income arising from:       Income
related to assistance to institutions, businesses and individuals, including
fees and charges for the provision of guarantees, loan repayments, loan
interest and fees, dividends, the sale of shares and debt royalties. Income
from financial regulators, insurance sponsorship and supervision
responsibilities.       Recoveries in respect of Honours and Dignities.
Recoveries in respect of administration of the Treasury, including income from
tenants and recharges for work and training. Income from the Government
Finance Function and Government Economic and Social Research Team. Income from
the sale of assets and redundant capital items.       Income from the
administration of Pool Re and other related bodies.       Income due to the
Debt Management Office, Government Internal Audit Agency and the National
Infrastructure Commission for charges for services provided to other
government departments and organisations.       Grant funding from DWP for the
Kickstart scheme.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Spending by HM Treasury on costs related to investment in,
and financial assistance to, financial institutions and non-financial
organisations, businesses and individuals. Includes credit easing, provision
of guarantees, loans, compensation, warranties and indemnities and
Infrastructure finance. Funding by core Treasury of tax costs and associated
interest payments for certain retired police and fire service officers.
Governmental response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       The
production costs of UK coinage, including manufacture, purchase of metal,
storage and distribution.       Spending on Help to Buy ISA. Administration of
the Equitable Life Payments Scheme and the creation and use of provisions.
Spending by the Royal Household, UK Asset Resolution Limited, Help to Buy
(HMT) Limited, Reclaim Fund Ltd, Pool Reinsurance Company Ltd and the UK
Infrastructure Bank. Costs associated with the UK exiting the EU as per the
Withdrawal Agreement.           Income arising from:       Transactions with
financial institutions and public and private organisations, businesses and
individuals including interest, fees and charges, dividends, loan repayments,
sale of assets and other capital items.       Income from the EU as agreed in
the Withdrawal Agreement. Repayment of the UK's paid in capital from the
European Investment Bank.

  Cabinet Office, 2022-23   Cabinet Office       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Cabinet Office Departmental Expenditure
Limit 907,768,000 1,120,124,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 1,408,819,000 Total 907,768,000
1,120,124,000 1,408,819,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Administration and operation of the department in
connection with the following functions:       Seize the opportunities of
Brexit, through creating the world's most effective border to increase UK
prosperity and enhance security; secure a safe, prosperous and resilient UK by
coordinating national security and crisis response, realising strategic
advantage through science and technology, and the implementation of the
Integrated Review; advance equality of opportunity across the UK; increase the
efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of government through modernising
and reforming the work of the Government Functions; support the design and
implementation of Government's and Prime Minister's priorities.
Activities of the Government Property Agency, Civil Service Commission,
Registrar of Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human
Rights.       Governance of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and the
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme. Expertise in infrastructure financing,
delivery and assurance of major projects to support more effective management
and delivery across government.       Payments of grant and grant-in-aid to
organisations promoting Cabinet Office objectives; supporting not-for-profit
bodies associated with the public service; payments to and relating to former
Prime Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers; reimbursement of Lord Lieutenants'
expenses; expenses in connection with honours; losses and special payments.
Underwriting of the Official Receiver, appointed as Liquidator, services
provided to other government departments and apprenticeship training for
staff.       Expenditure on non-current assets, depreciation, impairments,
notional audit fee, doubtful debts, bad debt write offs and associated non-
cash items in DEL.           Income arising from:       Royalties, dividends,
interest receivable, income from the EU, rental income, sales of goods and
services, rebates from suppliers, refunds, cost recoveries, training courses,
expert and transactional services carried out on behalf of other public sector
bodies, shared services income, cost sharing arrangements, contributions to
programmes conducted on behalf of government, sale of contractual rights,
framework establishment and management fee income, recoverable management
costs of the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme and income from employers
participating in the Principal Civil Service Pension Scheme to cover
administration of the scheme, secondment and loan receipts, receipts from
staff, repayment of grants and subsidies, income from services provided to
other government departments, notional grant income relating to apprenticeship
training for staff, repayment of loan principal and related interest, sale or
use of rights and assets, capital grant income, capital grant in kind income
on receipt of donated assets, capital receipts and income on disposal of
donated assets. Activities of the Government Property Agency, Registrar of
Consultant Lobbyists and Commission for Equality and Human Rights.

  Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate General, 2022-23   Scotland
Office and Office of the Advocate General       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Scotland Office and Office of the Advocate
General Departmental Expenditure Limit 13,340,000 50,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 39,852,198,000 Net Cash Requirement
39,865,374,000 Total 39,865,538,000 50,000 39,865,374,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Administration costs
in supporting the Secretary of State for Scotland and the Advocate General for
Scotland; providing advice on policy and legislation; Boundary Commission for
Scotland; capital, and associated non-cash costs.           Income arising
from:       Rental income; receipts from legal services provided to other
government departments; receipts from other government departments and other
miscellaneous receipts.           Non-Budget Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Payments to the Scottish Consolidated Fund.

  Wales Office, 2022-23   Wales Office       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Wales Office Departmental Expenditure Limit
5,657,000 30,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure
18,937,523,000 Net Cash Requirement 18,943,112,000 Total 18,943,180,000 30,000
18,943,112,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising
from:       Administration costs for the Wales Office; Lord Lieutenant's
expenditure; capital, and associated non-cash costs; other non-cash costs.
Income arising from:       Receipts from accommodation.           Non-Budget
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payments of a grant to the
Welsh Consolidated Fund.

  Northern Ireland Office, 2022-23   Northern Ireland Office       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Northern Ireland Office
Departmental Expenditure Limit 41,191,000 1,719,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 21,633,454,000 Net Cash Requirement
21,672,802,000 Total 21,674,645,000 1,719,000 21,672,802,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Overseeing the
effective operation of the devolution settlement in Northern Ireland and
representing the interests of Northern Ireland within the UK Government.
Expenditure on administrative services, Head of State related costs, VIP
visits to Northern Ireland, Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission and
Commissions or Reviews arising from the Belfast/Good Friday Agreement, the
Northern Ireland Act 1998, the Northern Ireland Act 2000, the Northern Ireland
Act 2009, political development and inquiries, the Electoral Office for
Northern Ireland, elections and boundary reviews, legal services, security,
victims of the Troubles including the work of the Independent Commission for
the Location of Victims' Remains, Parades Commission for Northern Ireland,
Civil Service Commissioners for Northern Ireland, the Independent Reporting
Commission, compensation schemes under the Justice and Security (Northern
Ireland) Act 2007 and Terrorism Act 2000 and certain other grants. Expenditure
arising from the Stormont House Agreement, the Fresh Start Agreement, New
Decade New Approach and New Deal for Northern Ireland. Expenditure on
arrangements for the running of Hillsborough Castle. This will include
associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in DEL.
Income arising from:       Recoupment of electoral expenses, receipts from the
use of video conferencing facilities, fees and costs recovered or received for
work done for other departments, freedom of information receipts, data
protection act receipts, recovery of compensation paid, recoupment of grant
funding, costs and fees awarded in favour of the Crown. Fees and costs
recovered or received for the use of the NIO estate. Contributions from third
parties to fund grant programmes and monies from other departments to fund
projects in Northern Ireland.           Non-Budget Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Providing appropriate funding to the Northern
Ireland Consolidated Fund for the delivery of transferred public services as
defined by the Northern Ireland Act 1998, Northern Ireland Act 2000 and the
Northern Ireland Act 2009. Grants to the Northern Ireland Consolidated Fund
and transfers of EU funds.

  National Savings and Investments, 2022-23   National Savings and Investments
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National
Savings and Investments Departmental Expenditure Limit 201,586,000 19,618,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 700,000 1,300,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 210,267,000 Total 202,286,000 20,918,000 210,267,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Cost of
delivery of National Savings and Investments operations, and leveraged
activities with other bodies including administration, operational research
and development works, transformation activity, other payments and non-cash
items. Other payments including payments in respect of recovered losses. And
expenditure on capital items.           Income arising from:       The
leveraging of National Savings and Investments core infrastructure and
capabilities and associated contracts including rent receipts and other
receipts such as loss recovery payments. The sale of assets resulting in some
capital income being used as sale proceeds.           Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Non-cash movements in
provisions including changes to fair value of National Savings and
Investment's properties. Capital expenditure.

  Charity Commission, 2022-23   Charity Commission       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Charity Commission Departmental
Expenditure Limit 32,098,000 3,107,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 31,573,000 Total 32,098,000
3,107,000 31,573,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Revenue and Capital expenditure in relation to the
registration and regulation of charities. Expenditure in connection with
depreciation and other non-cash items in DEL.           Income arising from:
Providing services, in both the UK and abroad, relating to our knowledge and
expertise in the field of registration and regulation of charities. Shared
working approaches with other Government Departments.

  Competition and Markets Authority, 2022-23   Competition and Markets
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Competition and Markets Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit 120,024,000
10,231,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 45,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0
Net Cash Requirement 122,005,000 Total 165,024,000 10,231,000 122,005,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Advancing and safeguarding the economic interests of UK consumers, businesses
and the economy; enforcing competition and consumer law, including payment for
information; analysing and monitoring markets; merger control; advocacy;
information, education and advice; costs in respect of reactive and proactive
litigation; providing expert, independent, trusted advice and economic
analysis to support the four nations to trade effectively within the UK
Internal Market; providing advice to public authorities and report on the
effective operation of the subsidy control regime; operationalising and
preparing for the new regulatory regime to implement and enforce a new pro-
competition regime for digital markets; administrative and operational costs,
including any Governmental response to the Covid-19 pandemic; associated
depreciation and any other non-cash items falling in DEL. Supporting the
Government's Places for Growth programme by increasing presence in Edinburgh,
Belfast and Cardiff, and establishing new offices in Manchester and
Darlington.           Income arising from:       Recovery of legal costs;
contributions from other departments towards the costs of market studies;
payments from the Home Office under the asset recovery incentivisation scheme;
fine income permitted for offset against litigation spend; payments for
information and publications; income from office space rental and other
property related income, including compensation from the landlord; fees for
common services provided to other organisations; recoveries of salaries of
staff on loan or seconded to outside bodies; sale of plant and machinery;
recoveries in connection with private telephone calls, postal and bank
charges.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising
from:       Provisions and other non-cash costs.

  The Statistics Board, 2022-23   The Statistics Board       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Statistics Board Departmental
Expenditure Limit 360,183,000 32,859,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
8,400,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 372,695,000 Total
368,583,000 32,859,000 372,695,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The collection, preparation and dissemination
of economic, social, labour market and other statistics; undertaking and
commissioning statistical research, and assisting statistical research by
providing access to data; promoting and safeguarding the quality of official
statistics, monitoring the production and publication of official statistics;
conducting a programme of assessment of existing and candidate National
Statistics against the Code of Practice for Official Statistics; providing
analysis of statistics to enhance understanding; coordinating the design,
collection, preparation, supply, quality management of the UK's European
statistics, provision of business support and IT services and associated non-
cash items. Undertaking of various roles in an international context.
Income arising from:       Provision of social surveys and the provision of
other services (statistical and corporate); provision of statistical related
IT platforms to other public sector organisations; recovery costs of shared
projects; sales of statistical data supply services, analyses and
publications; research grants or funding for Statistical Research; receipts
from EU and other overseas contracts; rental income; recovery of
Apprenticeship Levy; the provision of business support services and through
the sale of fixed assets.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Creation of provision in respect of onerous
contracts; early departure costs; and other provisions and associated non-cash
items.

  Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills, 2022-23
Office for Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office for
Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills Departmental
Expenditure Limit 157,782,000 4,149,000 Annually Managed Expenditure -42,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 156,745,000 Total 157,740,000
4,149,000 156,745,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Promoting improvement in the quality of education, skills
and care for children and young people through independent inspection,
regulation and reporting. Sharing research findings and good practice through
publications, seminars and conferences. This includes related administrative
and operational costs, capital expenditure, and associated depreciation and
other non-cash costs falling within DEL. Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic, or any further emergency response including
(but not limited to) advice and support, and the deployment or secondment of
staff to and from Ofsted in support of the response.           Income arising
from:       The registration of childcare providers, inspection for the care
and support of children and young people, some maintained schools, independent
schools and further education colleges, publicly funded adult education and
training and accreditation of online education providers. Transactions with
departmental and other government bodies: receipts for inspection and other
related activity undertaken on behalf of other Government departments, and
overseas government bodies (where clearance has been provided by the relevant
UK Government department). Miscellaneous asset sales and recovery of costs,
property charges made to minor occupiers, and receipts for goods and services
provided by Ofsted.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Provisions and other non-cash items in AME.

  Office of Qualifications and Examinations Regulation, 2022-23   Office of
Qualifications and Examinations Regulation       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Qualifications and Examinations
Regulation Departmental Expenditure Limit 28,182,000 707,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 28,271,000 Total
28,182,000 707,000 28,271,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       The regulation of the validity of general,
vocational and other qualifications throughout their lifecycle; promoting
public confidence in regulated qualifications; continuing delivery of
vocational and technical education reforms; monitoring and evaluating reformed
qualifications; and evaluating the validity of National Assessments.
Conducting relevant investigation, research and analysis, and undertaking
engagement and consultation with stakeholders to provide assurance that
regulated qualifications are fit-for-purpose and support good educational and
training outcomes.       Exploring, investigating and acknowledging
opportunities for innovation, including the use of artificial intelligence to
improve the quality of marking in high-stakes qualifications.       Developing
the skills and capabilities of our people, and developing and investing in our
digital systems to secure efficiency and value for money.           Income
arising from:       The Department for Education to support ongoing Reform
programmes, and, where required, to enable Ofqual to take on new Reform
programmes as they arise.       The recovery of costs associated with the
monetary penalties imposed on awarding organisations for breaches of Ofqual's
regulations.       The recovery of costs associated with the provision of data
and analysis to regulatory counterparts and to other Government departments;
for provision of support relating to IT/digital development, including
developments to the register of qualifications; and income from the disposal
of hardware as part of ongoing IT refresh. Receipts relating to the recovery
of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff. Receipts relating to the
recovery of building-related costs.

  Food Standards Agency, 2022-23   Food Standards Agency       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Food Standards Agency Departmental
Expenditure Limit 116,654,000 13,412,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
9,603,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 125,292,000 Total
126,257,000 13,412,000 125,292,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Delivering the FSA's mission of 'Food you can
trust' and ensuring that food is safe and is what it says it is; protecting
the public from public health risks related to food safety, feed safety, food
standards and protecting other consumer interests in relation to food,
supporting local authorities and port health authorities to deliver food
and/or feed law official controls; staff and overhead costs; inspections, meat
hygiene and official controls; controls on primary production; managing
research and evidence gathering, food incidents, investigations, prosecutions,
debt recovery, deploying the risk analysis process for food and animal feed
safety issues, policy development, enforcement and management of regulated
products applications; Animal health and welfare monitoring, surveillance and
enforcement; international activity on official controls; trade negotiations
and related activities with non-EU countries; Ireland/Northern Ireland
Protocol and Union related activity on food safety; delivering on Government's
wider aims to ensure that food is healthier and more sustainable; work to
deliver the FSA's annual report; advice and education, marketing and
publications; digital and data services for food businesses, local authorities
and consumers, information and communication services to food businesses and
consumers; payments of penalties and interest; expenditure relating to work
done in collaboration with or on behalf of UK and EU government departments;
funding for depreciation, audit fee and other non-cash items. Governmental
response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.           Income arising from:
Meat hygiene inspections; approvals and delivery of official controls and
controls on primary production of food and feed hygiene enforcement, wine
standards and other food-related activities; risk assessments, evidence and
research, testing, sampling, food crime “ Proceeds of Crime Act (POCA)
activities, receipt of court costs and fees, enforcement and surveillance work
for other UK Government and European Union bodies; assessments/consultations
on radioactive discharges; staff loans and secondments; sub-letting of
accommodation and associated services; disposal of fixed assets; recharge of
expenditure relating to work done in collaboration with or on behalf of UK and
EU government departments and income arising from capital grants in kind.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Creation,
adjustment and utilisation of provisions relating to pensions, early
retirements, bad debts, onerous leases, personal injury and legal claims;
revaluations and write off of bad debts; and other non-cash items.

  The National Archives, 2022-23   The National Archives       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The National Archives Departmental
Expenditure Limit 46,745,000 5,760,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-
budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 45,436,000 Total 46,745,000
5,760,000 45,436,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       Ensuring the UK public record - past and future - remains
authentic, available and accessible to all including; providing leadership and
support to the archive sector across England and Wales; leading on policy and
best practice in knowledge and information management for the public sector;
setting standards and driving forward the public sector information re-use
agenda; official publishing services for the whole of government including
publishing all UK legislation and making it accessible online; managing Crown
and Parliamentary copyright; administration of The National Archives and other
non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Sale of copies of
documents; sale of publications and other items and services; professional
fees; fees receivable from service providers; sale of non-current assets;
grants received to carry out specific projects; reproduction fees and
royalties for the publication of images; Crown copyright fees and royalties;
fees for the management of third parties' copyright; fees for the management
of the Office of the Queen's Printer for Scotland; income from contractual
arrangements for official publishing and partnerships to make historical
records electronically accessible; and sales and recovery of costs for
goods/services provided to other government departments; public bodies and the
general public.

  United Kingdom Supreme Court, 2022-23   United Kingdom Supreme Court
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   United
Kingdom Supreme Court Departmental Expenditure Limit 4,783,000 704,000
Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 4,037,000 Total 5,783,000 704,000 4,037,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Operation of the UK
Supreme Court (UKSC), Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) and
Judicial Exchange programme. Education and Outreach activities of the UKSC,
JCPC and the United Kingdom's legal and constitutional systems, costs
associated with Wider Market Initiatives, cost of running selection
commissions for the appointment of the President, Deputy President and
Justices and maintenance of links with apex courts in other countries. The
court's response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.           Income
arising from:       Court fees and receipts, contributions from the devolved
government and court services in England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern
Ireland, to cover support provided to the UK Supreme Court (UKSC) and Judicial
Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC), receipts of VAT refunds on contracted
out services and receipts from Wider Market Initiatives, fees received from
Justices sitting in other foreign courts, recovery of staff costs for staff on
loan or seconded to outside bodies, payments for information and publications,
postal and bank charge recoveries, receipts from shop sales, and any other
miscellaneous income.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Diminution in value of assets.

  Government Actuary's Department, 2022-23   Government Actuary's Department
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Government
Actuary's Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 187,000 350,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure 100,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
79,000 Total 287,000 350,000 79,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration costs incurred in providing
actuarial and specialist analysis, advice and assurance to Government and
other clients, principally in the public sector, and associated non-cash
items.           Income arising from:       Receipts for providing actuarial
and specialist analysis, advice and assurance in a range of areas, including
employer-sponsored pension arrangements and other employee benefits, social
insurance, health care financing arrangements, risk management and strategic
investment, asset/liability considerations, pension and insurance regulation
etc. as well as accommodation and facilities management services.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The
setting up and use of provisions and other associated non-cash items.

  Office of Gas and Electricity Markets, 2022-23   Office of Gas and
Electricity Markets       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Office of Gas and Electricity Markets Departmental Expenditure
Limit 1,876,000 1,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 20,466,000 Total 1,876,000 1,000,000
20,466,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administrative and operational costs; development and administration of
licensed regimes and industry processes; payments to other government
departments; co-operation with international regulators; services to other
government and energy related organisations; administration and payments made
under the Green Gas Support Scheme; administration of energy efficiency,
offshore transmission and other environmental schemes; regulation of and
participation in the Smart Meter programme; payments in relation to legal
costs arising from regulatory duties; adjustments to provisions; depreciation
and other non-cash items in DEL.           Income arising from:       Gas and
electricity licence fees; receipts in respect of the administration of the
Offshore Tender regime; income from fees and charges levied under the Gas Act
1986 and the Electricity Act 1989, as amended by the Utilities Act 2000;
income from fees and charges levied under the Green Gas Support Scheme; bank
interest, receipts in respect of letting, disposal, vacation or occupation of
accommodation; income from services to other government and energy related
organisations; bank interest and other cost recovery receipts.

  Office of Rail and Road, 2022-23   Office of Rail and Road       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Office of Rail and Road
Departmental Expenditure Limit 3,000 720,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,000,000 Total 3,000 720,000
2,000,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Administration of ORR, its support establishments, all associates of non-cash
items and all activities as the combined economic and safety regulator
including health and safety matters, the regulation of access to railways, the
promotion of rail services, efficiencies and economy for those providing
railway services, protecting the interests of railway services and railway
users, payment of the apprenticeship levy, government response to the Covid-19
pandemic and sponsorship of the Rail Ombudsman.       All activities as
highways monitor with responsibility for monitoring and enforcing the
performance and efficiency of Highways England's delivery of the government's
roads investment strategy and its management and operation of the strategic
road network. Support for activities as highways monitor.       Acting as the
appeal body, controlling the network statement, monitoring the competitive
situation of rail services, and overseeing the efficient management and fair
and non-discriminatory use of rail infrastructure for Northern Ireland and for
the infrastructure manager of Core Valley's Lines.           Income arising
from:       Regulatory licences, concession agreements, levies, subscription
fees, charges for courses and officers loaned to other organisations, income
from High Speed 1 Limited; Channel Tunnel Intergovernmental Commission;
Channel Tunnel Authority; NIR Networks Limited, Amey Keolis
Infrastructure/Selwaith Amey Keolis Limited, Transport for Wales, and
government grants.       Income from recovery actions in connection with the
successful legal cases. Charges for rental, administrative and other services,
and other activities to other government departments, executive and non-
executive non-departmental public bodies.       Overhead recharges. Grant
funding from the Department for Transport in respect of the monitoring and
enforcing the performance of Highways England including its delivery of the
government's road investment strategy and its management and operation of the
strategic road network.

  Water Services Regulation Authority, 2022-23   Water Services Regulation
Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Water Services Regulation Authority Departmental Expenditure Limit 320,000
2,719,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 7,199,000 Total 320,000 2,719,000 7,199,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Regulation of, and
the application of competition law to, the water and sewerage industry in
England and Wales. Administration and operation costs of the department,
including depreciation, pension payments, provisions and other non-cash items.
Payments in relation to legal costs arising from carrying out legal functions
including regulatory and/or competition functions.           Income arising
from:       Regulatory licence fees and otherwise recovering Ofwat's costs and
expenses associated with the regulation of, and being a competition authority
in relation to, the water and sewerage industry in England and Wales.
Contributions towards former Director Generals' pension payments.
Recovery in respect of administration and operation costs of the department,
including salary recovery for staff on loan or seconded, contributions
relating to participants' share of collaborative projects, sale of fixed
assets and any other miscellaneous cost recovery receipts.

  Export Credits Guarantee Department, 2022-23   Export Credits Guarantee
Department       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Export Credits Guarantee Department Departmental Expenditure Limit 1,000
3,716,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 717,391,000 2,098,953,000 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,135,374,000 Total 717,392,000
2,102,669,000 2,135,374,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       The running of ECGD's operational activity (operating
costs of the Department), including Governmental response to the coronavirus
Covid-19 pandemic.           Income arising from:       Some underwriting
activity, notional income in respect of the Apprenticeship Levy and
sponsorship income raised to defray specific marketing costs.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or developing UK exports, for
insuring UK investments overseas and for transaction and portfolio management,
and expenditure arising from the creation and increase in provisions related
to ECGD's operational activities.           Income arising from:
Arrangements made by ECGD for supporting or developing UK exports, for
insuring UK investments overseas, for transaction and portfolio management,
and income arising from the release of and decrease in provisions related to
ECGD's operational activities.

  Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England, 2022-23   Office of the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Administration and the Health Service Commissioner for
England       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Office of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administration and the Health
Service Commissioner for England Departmental Expenditure Limit 39,701,000
11,748,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 522,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 40,343,000 Total 40,223,000 11,748,000 40,343,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Operational and administration costs, capital expenditure, and associated
depreciation and other non-cash costs falling in DEL.           Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Use of provisions,
including provisions for onerous leases, early departure, legal costs and
dilapidations.

  House of Lords, 2022-23   House of Lords       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of Lords Departmental Expenditure
Limit 159,402,000 61,837,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 1,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 207,489,000 Total 159,403,000 61,837,000
207,489,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:
Members' expenses and allowances; administrative and accommodation costs,
including staff salaries and pensions; security; stationery; printing;
financial assistance to opposition parties; grants and grants-in-aid to
Parliamentary bodies and organisations who promote the House of Lords'
objectives; supporting the Parliamentary response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic; and associated depreciation and any other non-cash costs falling in
DEL.           Income arising from:       Catering and retail sales; rental
income; reproductions of works of art; pension scheme related income; fees;
income from the sale of assets; other charges and receipts in connection with
parliamentary activities.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Pensions; administrative and accommodation
costs; supporting the Parliamentary response to the coronavirus Covid-19
pandemic; and provisions and other non-cash costs falling in AME.

  House of Commons: Members, 2022-23   House of Commons: Members
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of
Commons: Members Departmental Expenditure Limit 17,915,000 0 Annually Managed
Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 17,895,000 Total
17,915,000 0 17,895,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit         Expenditure
arising from:       The House of Commons Members' Estimate is to cover
expenditure arising from: financial assistance to Opposition parties to
support them in the discharge of their Parliamentary or representative
functions; the Exchequer contribution to the Parliamentary Contributory
Pension Fund (PCPF); payroll costs of Members appointed to specific
parliamentary duties, and other non-cash costs.

  Crown Estate Office, 2022-23   Crown Estate Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Crown Estate Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 2,365,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,357,000 Total 2,365,000 0 2,357,000
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       A
contribution to the salary and administrative costs of the Crown Estate
Commissioners and associated non-cash items.

  Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes, 2022-23   Armed Forces
Pension and Compensation Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Armed Forces Pension and Compensation Schemes
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 8,520,964,000
0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 1,523,079,000 Total
8,520,964,000 0 1,523,079,000 Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       Payment of pensions, lump sum benefits, transfers out and
associated non-cash items to persons covered by the scheme. Provision is also
made for payment of those benefits outside the scheme: Short Service
Gratuities, Resettlement Grants and Criminal Injuries Compensation Overseas.
Income arising from:       MOD employer contributions (Superannuation
Contributions Adjusted for Past Experience), Transfers In from other schemes
and purchases of added years.

  Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas Superannuation,
2022-23   Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas
Superannuation       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office: Overseas Superannuation
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 11,000,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 45,600,000 Total 11,000,000 0
45,600,000 Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Pension and superannuation payments, grants and compensation payments, etc. in
respect of overseas services; pensions for beneficiaries of certain former
overseas pension funds for which the UK assumed responsibility; pensions for
beneficiaries and former beneficiaries of the Gibraltar Social Insurance Fund;
contributions to pension funds guaranteed by the UK; refund of contributions
made by overseas governments; war service credit; and associated non-cash
items such as adjustments to pension scheme liabilities like interest on
outstanding scheme liabilities.

  National Health Service Pension Scheme, 2022-23   National Health Service
Pension Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
National Health Service Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 45,546,855,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement -4,319,620,000 Total 45,546,855,000 0 -4,319,620,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Pensions,
allowances, gratuities, transfers to alternative pension arrangements, refunds
of contributions, compensation for early retirement, to or in respect of
persons engaged in health services or in other approved employment and other
cash and non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Pension
contributions, inward transfer values, employer contributions relating to the
Compensation for Premature Retirement Scheme, cost of scheme administration
levy, from or in respect of persons engaged in health services or in other
approved employment.

  Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales), 2022-23   Teachers' Pension
Scheme (England and Wales)       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales) Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 22,062,946,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,533,188,000 Total 22,062,946,000 0
2,533,188,000 Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Superannuation allowances and gratuities, and other related expenditure, in
respect of teachers and the widows, widowers, children and dependants of
deceased teachers, and for premature retirement and compensation payments made
to members of the Teachers' Pension Scheme and on behalf of their employers,
the cost of paying the Department for Education to administer the scheme; and
associated non-cash items.           Income arising from:       Receipts from
employers' and employees' superannuation contributions; transfer values
received; deductions from returns of contributions towards payment in lieu of
graduated national insurance contributions equivalent premiums; recovery of
contributions equivalent premiums from the state pension scheme; amounts
received from employers of teachers' scheme members in reimbursement of the
cost of premature retirement compensation payments on their behalf by Capita;
receipt of administration charge from employers for the specific purpose of
meeting the costs of administering the scheme.

  UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes, 2022-23   UK Atomic Energy
Authority Pension Schemes       Estimate Net resources authorised for current
purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement
(£) (£) (£)   UK Atomic Energy Authority Pension Schemes Departmental
Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 224,400,000 0 Non-budget
Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 220,600,000 Total 224,400,000 0 220,600,000
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payments
of pensions etc. to members of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority
pension schemes, related expenditure and non-cash items.           Income
arising from:       Receipts of employees' and employers' contributions and
inward transfers.

  Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme, 2022-23   Ministry of
Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Ministry of Justice: Judicial Pensions Scheme
Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0 Annually Managed Expenditure 198,753,000 0
Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement -106,777,000 Total 198,753,000 0
-106,777,000 Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Pensions etc, in respect of members of the Judicial Pensions Scheme, and for
other related services.           Income arising from:       Accruing
Superannuation Liability Charges (ASLCs); and scheme members' pension
contributions.

  Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation, 2022-23   Cabinet Office: Civil
Superannuation       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes
Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Cabinet Office: Civil Superannuation Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 15,082,760,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 1,063,390,000 Total 15,082,760,000 0 1,063,390,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       The superannuation
of civil servants; pensions etc., and other pensions and non-recurrent
payments; for other related services and related non-cash items.
Income arising from:       Charges received from departments and others on
account of the cost of pension cover provided for their staff. Periodical
contributions for widows', widowers', and dependants' benefits. Other
superannuation contributions, transfer values and bulk transfer receipts.

  Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme, 2022-23   Royal Mail Statutory Pension
Scheme       Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net
resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 877,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 1,488,000,000 Total 877,000,000 0 1,488,000,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Payment of pensions etc to
members of the Royal Mail Statutory Pension Scheme, related expenditure and
non-cash items.

  House of Commons: Administration, 2022-23   House of Commons: Administration
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   House of
Commons: Administration Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent 374,949,000
176,699,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 493,524,000 Total 374,949,000 176,699,000 493,524,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent         Expenditure arising from:       General
administration of the House of Commons and activities undertaken to meet
Parliament's objectives, associated commercial activities; grants to
organisations who promote the House of Commons' objectives, support the
Parliamentary response to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic and other non-cash
costs.           Income arising from:       Rental, fees and charges in
connection with activities within Parliament.

  Parliamentary Works Sponsor Body, 2022-23   Parliamentary Works Sponsor Body
Estimate Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources
authorised for capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)
Parliamentary Works Sponsor Body Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent
84,000,000 3,000,000 Annually Managed Expenditure 0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0
Net Cash Requirement 87,000,000 Total 84,000,000 3,000,000 87,000,000
Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent         Expenditure arising from:
General administration of the Parliamentary Works Sponsor Body and the
activities undertaken to meet its obligations for the Restoration and Renewal
Programme for decision by Parliament with a set of options and costs to
deliver the full programme of works, including any expenditure necessarily
incurred in transitional activities and any transfer to a new operating model
as a result of recent decisions by the House Commissions.       The activities
to be undertaken by the Delivery Authority including; concept design and
solutions development, a programme of building surveys, provision of assurance
and oversight of programme work to support programme delivery including;
digital and data information services and corporate services. Operation of
programme and corporate capabilities and processes including risk management,
cost management, reporting, health and safety, assurance and governance
structures, accommodation costs, general administration and other commercial
activities and non-cash costs.

  National Audit Office, 2022-23   National Audit Office       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   National Audit Office Departmental
Expenditure Limit equivalent 83,500,000 5,300,000 Annually Managed Expenditure
0 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 85,639,000 Total 83,500,000
5,300,000 85,639,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit equivalent
Expenditure arising from:       Expenditure and associated non-cash items
incurred in the provision of independent assurance and information to
Parliament on the proper accounting for central government expenditure,
revenue, assets and liabilities, including compliance with laws and
regulations, and in the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with which
central government resources have been used; and the provision of independent
assurance and information and advice to a wide range of other public,
international, and overseas bodies and to members of the public.
Income arising from:       The provision of audit and assurance services to a
range of organisations, including international and overseas bodies, and
income from the rental of surplus office space, income arising from the
disposal of assets and miscellaneous receipts.

  The Electoral Commission, 2022-23   The Electoral Commission       Estimate
Net resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for
capital purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Electoral Commission
Departmental Expenditure Limit 25,222,000 1,424,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 50,000 100,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
26,123,000 Total 25,272,000 1,524,000  26,123,000 Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Registration of political
parties, recognised third parties and permitted participants; regulation and
reporting of the income and expenditure of political parties, candidates,
third parties and permitted participants; making grants to eligible parties
for policy development; reviewing and advising on the administration and law
of elections and encouraging best practice; providing guidance, and reporting,
on the conduct of elections and referendums; determining standards of
performance for those administering electoral registration, elections and
referendums, and collecting information in relation to those standards and to
expenditure on elections and campaigning; conducting certain referendums and
promoting public awareness of electoral systems.           Income arising
from:       Registration and re-registration of political parties; providing
guidance, and reporting, on the conduct of elections and referendums;
determining standards of performance for those administering electoral
registration, elections and referendums, and collecting information in
relation to those standards and to expenditure on elections and campaigning;
conducting certain referendums and promoting public awareness of electoral
systems, including Devolved Administrations; and any other non-cash items.
Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:
Provisions, impairments and other non-cash costs arising in AME. Provisions
include early departures, obligations under office and other leases, pension
and tax and national insurance on benefits in kind.

  Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority, 2022-23   Independent
Parliamentary Standards Authority       Estimate Net resources authorised for
current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority
Departmental Expenditure Limit 251,513,000 1,261,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 150,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement
252,794,000 Total 251,663,000 1,261,000 252,794,000 Departmental Expenditure
Limit         Expenditure arising from:       Operation and administration of
the Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (IPSA), and all activities
connected to its purpose. Determination and operation of a business costs and
expenses scheme for Members of Parliament, payment of: the salaries, business
costs and expenses of Members of Parliament and their staff. Determination of
policy for the administration and salaries and pensions for Members of
Parliament. Conducting reviews and investigations carried out under the
auspices of the Office of the Compliance Officer. Depreciation and other non-
cash costs. The reimbursement of travel and subsistence costs for meeting
attendance of IPSA appointed managers of the UK MEP Pension Scheme.
Income arising from:       Funding received from the House to cover the costs
of interns employed by some MPs. Miscellaneous repayments made under the MPs'
Scheme of Business Costs and Expenses.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Provisions and impairments.

  The Local Government Boundary Commission for England, 2022-23   The Local
Government Boundary Commission for England       Estimate Net resources
authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes
Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   The Local Government Boundary Commission
for England Departmental Expenditure Limit 2,393,000 120,000 Annually Managed
Expenditure 15,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash Requirement 2,444,000
Total 2,408,000 120,000 2,444,000 Departmental Expenditure Limit
Expenditure arising from:       Administration and operational cost and
associated non-cash items, planning for and carrying out the functions and
duties imposed on it by, or by virtue of, the Local Government and Public
Involvement in Health Act 2007, the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 and the Greater London Authority Act 1999: these
functions and duties include undertaking electoral reviews of local
authorities in England and implementing any changes by Order; undertaking
reviews of the administrative boundaries of local authorities in England and
making recommendations to the Secretary of State for any changes; providing
advice, at his request, to the Secretary of State on any proposals he receives
from local authorities for a change to unitary status; undertaking reviews of
the constituencies of the Greater London Assembly and implementing any changes
by Order; altering the boundaries of district council or London borough wards
and county council divisions as a consequence of the outcome of community
governance reviews conducted by local authorities in England; and making
Orders to implement proposals from local authorities wishing to move to
elections by thirds or by halves.           Annually Managed Expenditure
Expenditure arising from:       Provisions.

