Title: Supply and Appropriation (Adjustments) Act 2022
Date: 2022-12-09
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/41

## Supply and Appropriation (Adjustments) Act 2022

                                                   W hereas  the Commons of
the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled have resolved to authorise the use
of resources and the issue of sums out of the Consolidated Fund towards making
good the supply which they have granted to His Majesty in this Session of
Parliament:—                                                       Be it
therefore enacted by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the advice
and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### Authorisation of supplementary provision for 2022-23

1

1.1

The amount up to which the authorisation was conferred for the use of
resources for the year ending with 31 March 2023 is to be treated as further
increased by £71,351,000,000.

1.2

In relation to the further amount treated as authorised by  subsection (1) —

1.2.a

the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for current purposes is
to be treated as further increased by £60,176,000,000, and

1.2.b

the amount up to which there is authorisation for use for capital purposes is
to be treated as further increased by £11,175,000,000.

1.3

The amount up to which authorisation was conferred on the Treasury—

1.3.a

to issue money out of the Consolidated Fund, and

1.3.b

to apply it in the year ending with 31 March 2023 for expenditure authorised
by Parliament,

is to be treated as further increased by £71,351,000,000.

1.4

The increases for which  this section  provides are to be treated as having
had effect from the beginning of 1 April 2022.

### Appropriation of supplementary provision for 2022-23

2

2.1

For the purposes of—

2.1.a

appropriating the amount of resources the use of which for the year ending
with 31 March 2023 is authorised by  section 1 (1) , and

2.1.b

appropriating the amount of money the issue of which out of the Consolidated
Fund is authorised by  section 1 (3) ,

the Main Estimates Act 2022 is to be treated as having effect with the
adjustments provided for in  the Schedule  to this Act.

2.2

The Schedule  specifies the amounts by which adjustments are to be treated as
made to the amounts originally specified in the Scheduled Estimates in the
Main Estimates Act 2022.

2.3

An adjustment in  the Schedule  has effect to increase an amount of authorised
expenditure.

2.4

Where, in relation to a department, other person or service to which a
Scheduled Estimate in the Main Estimates Act 2022 relates,  the Schedule
contains a new description of matters to which expenditure may relate or from
which income may arise,  the Schedule  has effect for adjusting that Scheduled
Estimate by treating the new description as included in it.

2.5

In this section, “ Main Estimates Act 2022 ” means the Supply and
Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2022.

2.6

The adjustments made by virtue of this section are to be treated as having had
effect from the beginning of 1 April 2022.

### Short title

3

This Act may be cited as the Supply and Appropriation (Adjustments) Act 2022.

                 Supplementary appropriations for financial year 2022-23 1

                 Section 2

1

1.1

In this Schedule, where an asterisk (*) appears at the beginning of a
description of matters to which expenditure may relate, or from which income
may arise, the description is a description which was not included in the
Schedule to the Supply and Appropriation (Main Estimates) Act 2022 as
originally enacted.

1.2

Text which follows an asterisk (*) is added by this Schedule.

  Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy, 2022-23
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy       Estimate Net
resources authorised for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital
purposes Net Cash Requirement (£) (£) (£)   Department for Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy Departmental Expenditure Limit 176,000,000 0 Annually
Managed Expenditure 60,000,000,000 0 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net Cash
Requirement 60,176,000,000 Total 60,176,000,000 0 60,176,000,000 Departmental
Expenditure Limit         Expenditure arising from:       The promotion of
enterprise, innovation and increased productivity delivered through
international trade and investment, regional investment and delivering
regulatory reform, and measures to combat international bribery and
corruption.       The provision of support for business, including support for
specific industries, small and medium businesses, regional programmes,
programmes to promote research and development, innovation and standards, best
practice and sustainable development.       The provision of financial
solutions to accelerate private sector investment and address market failures
through the British Business Bank, and other similar intervention mechanisms.
The promotion of strong, fair and competitive markets at home and abroad;
measures to protect investors and consumers including from unsafe products and
unfair practices; support for employment relations programmes and measures to
promote a skilled and flexible labour market.       The efficient management
and discharge of liabilities falling to the Department and its partner
organisations, including nuclear waste management and decommissioning, and
liabilities in respect of former shipbuilding industry and former coal
industry employees.       The efficient management and discharge of specific
costs falling to the Department and its partner organisations relating to
outstanding personal injury claims against Thomas Cook.       The management
of the Government's shareholder interest in the portfolio of commercial
businesses wholly or partly owned by Government; providing financial
assistance to public corporations, and trading funds.       The management of
miscellaneous programmes including payments in respect of claims for the
restitution of the property of victims of Nazi persecution.       The payment
of subscriptions and contributions to international organisations and
fulfilment of international treaty obligations.       Increasing science and
research excellence in the United Kingdom and maximising its contribution to
society.       Support for space related programmes.       Support for the
activities of the Position, Navigation and Timing (PNT) Office.       Making
payments to local authorities in respect of Local Area Agreements and New
Burdens responsibilities.       Activities of UK Government Investments on
behalf of the Department.       Support for energy-related activities
including regulation, civil emergency planning, energy resilience measures,
environmental remediation and support and facilitation for new and sustainable
or more efficient, or less carbon intensive energy sources, technologies,
transmission and storage, security and non-proliferation.       Respond to
fuel poverty needs.       Support for consumer and household energy bills.
Measures to improve energy efficiency, security and environmental practice;
payments to energy companies to reduce the impact of BEIS policies on bills.
Work towards international agreement on climate change; promote and support
actions to reduce national and global greenhouse gas emissions; climate
modelling and risk assessment.       Safety, environment and social impact
programmes relating to nuclear sites in Central and Eastern Europe and the
former Soviet Union and other countries where future G8 Global Partnership
related initiatives may be pursued.       Inspections and compliance in
accordance with EU regulatory requirements and recovery of expenditure through
cost sharing arrangements.       Specialist support services, staff management
and development; other departmental administration and non-cash costs;
payments towards the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority Combined Pension
Scheme deficit; exchange risk and other guarantee losses; publicity,
promotion, publications, knowledge sharing initiatives and departmental
research and development; surveys, monitoring, statistics, advice and
consultancies; management of asset sales; Investment Security Unit;
contributions to fund cross government initiatives; Payments to HM Treasury
towards the cost of Infrastructure UK.       Expenditure arising from the UK's
departure from the European Union.       Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       Grants to local authorities.
Funding organisations supporting departmental objectives, including the
department's executive agencies and arm's length bodies and their
subsidiaries.       The provision of financial solutions to accelerate private
sector investment and address market failures through New Innovation Finance
Products.       Support for high risk projects with potential for
transformative change through the Advanced Research and Invention Agency
(ARIA), including set up costs.       * The Energy Security Strategy, to
enable or encourage the supply of energy, including acquisition, and making
available or enabling access at government expense to, energy or related
infrastructure.           Income arising from:       Receipts from other
Government Departments and devolved administrations; the Advisory,
Conciliation and Arbitration Service; the Insolvency Service.       Receipts
from statutory regulators in respect of expenses related to levies from
industry.       Receipts from licences and levies; Launch Investment receipts;
Capital Venture Funds receipts; premium income and other receipts from
Financial Guarantee schemes, and of dividends; equity withdrawals; interest on
loans and loan repayments from the Land Registry, Ordnance Survey, Met Office,
UK Intellectual Property Office and National Physical Laboratory. Income from
investments; receipts from financial investments made by the British Business
Bank and UK Research and Innovation; repayment of loans and investments;
repayment of capital grants; repayments of grants and contributions; receipts
from asset sales.       European Fast Stream receipts; repayment of working
capital loans; receipts from outside organisations (including the EU) in
respect of advertising and publicity activities and materials; sale of
research publications; receipts from the European Social Fund to cover
departmental programmes; sponsorship funding.       Receipts and profit from
the sale of surplus land, buildings and equipment; rental income and
repayments including from three domestic properties on the estate of the
European School of Culture at Culham, Oxfordshire and from the National
Physical Laboratory. Receipts associated with the closure of Partner
Organisations.       Receipts from LifeArc/MRC Technology, the Ufi Charitable
Trust, and subsidiaries and shares in joint ventures of UK Research and
Innovation, and other partner organisations, the public weather service and
mapping services. Commercial loan recoveries in relation to UK Coal Production
Limited.       General administration receipts of the Department, its
executive agencies, its arm's length bodies, and other partner organisations,
including: the recovery of salaries and associated costs for seconded staff;
sale of goods and services; HMRC receipts arising from the Research and
Development Expenditure Credit; and interest from bank accounts and exchange
rate gains and losses.       Income relating to legal services, consultancy,
publications, public enquiries, information, central services; occupancy
charge; administrative and professional services; EU receipts; refund of input
VAT not claimed in previous years on departmental expenditure; fees for
services provided for energy resilience purposes; interest payments; non-cash
income.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Contributions from other organisations to cover the cost of
activities they have agreed to fund in total or in part.       Government
carbon offsetting scheme receipts.       Receipt and retention of financial
securities relating to the decommissioning of renewable devices such as
offshore wind.       Receipts relating to the oil and gas industries
(including petroleum licensing and levy receipts).       Project Camelot Levy
Receipts.       Proceeds of Crime income generated in criminal enforcement.
Receipts relating to the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.       * The Energy
Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy, including sale
of, and making available or enabling access to, energy or related
infrastructure.           Annually Managed Expenditure         Expenditure
arising from:       The efficient management and discharge of liabilities
falling to the Department and its partner organisations, including nuclear
waste management and decommissioning and liabilities in respect of former
shipbuilding industry and former coal industry employees.       Bad debts,
impairments and provisions; other non-cash items.       Departmental
administration; financial guarantee schemes; regional investment and
programmes; enterprise for small and medium firms; provision of support for
business, including support for specific industries; support for innovation
and research activity; miscellaneous programmes.       Governmental response
to the coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       The management of asset sales.
Payment of corporation tax.       The provision of repayable credit facilities
for Post Office Ltd; contributions to partner organisations' pension schemes,
such as the Research Councils' Pension Scheme; and the provision of parental
leave schemes.       Activities of UK Government Investments on behalf of the
Department.       Renewable Heat Incentive including Renewable Heat Premium
Payments.       The expenditure of The NESTA Trust.       Impairment of loans
and investments; Exchange rate gains and losses.       Efficient discharge of
liabilities relating to contracts for difference for the supply of
electricity.       The Redundancy Payments Service.       * Support for
consumer and household, business and other non-domestic energy bills.
The Energy Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy,
including acquisition, and making available or enabling access at government
expense to, energy or related infrastructure.           Income arising from:
Receipts from Trading Funds.       Receipts from asset sales.       Income
relating to repayment and recoveries of compensation and legal costs,
distribution of surpluses from coal industry pension schemes and coal
privatisation receipts.       Refund of input VAT not claimed in previous
years on departmental expenditure; interest payments; repayments of grants and
contributions; non-cash income.       Activities of UK Government Investments
on behalf of the Department.       Receipt of interest on loans and loan
repayments from Post Office Ltd; receipts and income from investments in
respect of The NESTA Trust.       Income from Enrichment Holdings Ltd in
respect of dividends from shares held by Enrichment Investments Ltd in URENCO.
Dividends from shares held by Postal Services Holding Ltd in Royal Mail.
Receipts relating to the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority.       * The Energy
Security Strategy, to enable or encourage the supply of energy, including sale
of, and making available or enabling access to, energy or related
infrastructure.

  HM Treasury, 2022-23   HM Treasury       Estimate Net resources authorised
for current purposes Net resources authorised for capital purposes Net Cash
Requirement (£) (£) (£)   HM Treasury Departmental Expenditure Limit 0 0
Annually Managed Expenditure 0 11,175,000,000 Non-budget Expenditure 0 Net
Cash Requirement 11,175,000,000 Total 0 11,175,000,000 11,175,000,000 Annually
Managed Expenditure         Expenditure arising from:       Spending by HM
Treasury on costs related to investment in, and financial assistance to,
financial institutions and non-financial organisations, businesses and
individuals. Includes credit easing, provision of guarantees, loans,
compensation, warranties and indemnities and Infrastructure finance. Funding
by core Treasury of tax costs and associated interest payments for certain
retired police and fire service officers. Governmental response to the
coronavirus Covid-19 pandemic.       The production costs of UK coinage,
including manufacture, purchase of metal, storage and distribution.
Spending on Help to Buy ISA. Administration of the Equitable Life Payments
Scheme and the creation and use of provisions.       Spending by the Royal
Household, UK Asset Resolution Limited, Help to Buy (HMT) Limited, Reclaim
Fund Ltd, Pool Reinsurance Company Ltd and the UK Infrastructure Bank. Costs
associated with the UK exiting the EU as per the Withdrawal Agreement.
Income arising from:       Transactions with financial institutions and public
and private organisations, businesses and individuals including interest, fees
and charges, dividends, loan repayments, sale of assets and other capital
items.       Income from the EU as agreed in the Withdrawal Agreement.
Repayment of the UK's paid in capital from the European Investment Bank.

