Title: The Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution and Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution) Regulations 2019 (S.I. 2019/42) (“the 2019 Regulations”) and the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) Regulations 2020 (S.I. 2020/620) (“the 2020 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1234

## The Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution and Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Merchant Shipping       Marine Pollution

  Made   1st December 2022

  Laid before Parliament   5th December 2022

  Coming into force   27th December 2022

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by article 3
of the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution) Order 1983 , article 2
of the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution) (Law of the Sea Convention)
Order 1996 , articles 3 and 5 of the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of
Pollution by Sewage and Garbage) Order 2006  and sections 85(1), (3), (5) to
(7), 86(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d), 128(5) and (6), 302(1) and 306A of the
Merchant Shipping Act 1995 , and with the consent of the Treasury, makes the
following Regulations.           The Secretary of State has consulted such
persons in the United Kingdom as the Secretary of State considers will be
affected by the exercise of powers in this instrument in accordance with
section 86(4) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil
Pollution and Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) (Amendment)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 27th December 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Amendment of the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution) Regulations 2019

2

2.1

The Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution) Regulations 2019  are
amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 7 (exemptions)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (4)(b), at the beginning, insert  “on the giving of reasonable
notice,” ;

2.2.b

after paragraph (5), insert—

2.2.b.5A

Where an exemption is granted under paragraph (3) in respect of a UNSP barge
which is a United Kingdom ship, in relation to regulation 10 (surveys), 12
(issue and endorsement of IOPP Certificates) or 13 (issue of UKOPP
Certificates), the Secretary of State must issue a UNSP Exemption Certificate.

2.2.b.5B

Where an exemption is altered or cancelled under paragraph (4)(b), the
Secretary of State must indicate this on the UNSP Exemption Certificate.

2.2.b.5C

The Secretary of State may, at the request of the Administration of another
Convention Country, survey a UNSP barge entitled to fly the flag of that
Convention Country for the purpose of issuing an exemption under paragraph (3)
in relation to regulation 12 or 13 in respect of that ship and, if satisfied
that the ship meets the requirements for that exemption, issue a UNSP
Exemption Certificate in respect of that ship.

2.2.b.5D

A UNSP Exemption Certificate issued under paragraph (5C) must include a
statement to the effect that it has been issued at the request of the
Administration of a Convention Country.

2.2.b.5E

The Secretary of State must, as soon as possible after issuing a UNSP
Exemption Certificate under paragraph (5C), send to the requesting
Administration—

2.2.b.5E.a

a copy of the UNSP Exemption Certificate so issued; and

2.2.b.5E.b

a copy of the corresponding survey report.

2.2.b.5F

A UNSP Exemption Certificate must not be issued in respect of a ship entitled
to fly the flag of a State which is not a Convention Country.

;

2.2.c

for paragraph (6), substitute—

2.2.c.6

In this regulation—

      “UNSP” barge means an unmanned non-self-propelled barge that—         is
not propelled by mechanical means;           carries no oil;           has no
machinery fitted that may use oil or generate oil residue;           has no
fuel tank, lubricating oil tank, oily bilge water holding tank and oil residue
tank; and           has neither persons nor living animals on board; and
“ UNSP Exemption Certificate ” means the certificate described as
“International Oil Pollution Prevention Exemption Certificate for Unmanned
Non-self-propelled (UNSP) Barges” in appendix IV to Annex I.

.

### Amendment of the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) Regulations 2020

3

3.1

The Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships)
Regulations 2020  are amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 3(1) (interpretation)—

3.2.a

omit the definition of “the Appendix”; and

3.2.b

in the definition of “Sewage Certificate”, for “the Appendix” substitute
“appendix I to Annex IV” .

3.3

After regulation 6 (application), insert—

######### Exemption for UNSP barges

3.3.6A

3.3.6A.1

The Secretary of State may exempt a UNSP barge from the requirements of
regulation 11 (prohibition on United Kingdom ships proceeding to sea without a
Sewage Certificate), regulation 13 (surveys of United Kingdom ships) or
regulation 14 (issue of Sewage Certificates by a Certifying Authority in
respect of United Kingdom ships) for a period not exceeding five years
provided that the barge has undergone a survey to confirm that—

3.3.6A.1.a

it is not propelled by mechanical means;

3.3.6A.1.b

has neither persons nor living animals on board;

3.3.6A.1.c

is not used for holding sewage during transport; and

3.3.6A.1.d

has no arrangements that could produce sewage.

3.3.6A.2

An exemption granted under paragraph (1) may, on the giving of reasonable
notice, be altered or cancelled.

3.3.6A.3

An exemption granted under paragraph (1), or an alteration or cancellation
under paragraph (2), must be in writing.

3.3.6A.4

Where an exemption is granted under paragraph (1), the Secretary of State must
issue a UNSP Exemption Certificate.

3.3.6A.5

Where an exemption is altered or cancelled under paragraph (2), the Secretary
of State must indicate this on the UNSP Exemption Certificate.

3.3.6A.6

The Secretary of State may, at the request of another Contracting State—

3.3.6A.6.a

survey a UNSP barge entitled to fly the flag of that State for the purpose of
issuing an exemption from the requirements of regulation 12 (prohibition on
non-United Kingdom ships proceeding to sea without a Sewage Certificate or
appropriate documentation) in respect of that ship; and

3.3.6A.6.b

if satisfied that the ship meets the requirements for that exemption, grant
the exemption and issue a UNSP Exemption Certificate in respect of that ship.

3.3.6A.7

A UNSP Exemption Certificate issued under paragraph (6) must include a
statement to the effect that it has been issued at the request of the relevant
Contracting State.

3.3.6A.8

The Secretary of State must, as soon as possible after issuing a UNSP
Exemption Certificate under paragraph (6), send to the Contracting State who
made the request, a copy of—

3.3.6A.8.a

the exemption granted under paragraph (6);

3.3.6A.8.b

the UNSP Exemption Certificate so issued; and

3.3.6A.8.c

the corresponding survey report.

3.3.6A.9

In this regulation—

      “ UNSP barge ” means an unmanned non-self-propelled barge that—
is not propelled by mechanical means;           has neither persons nor living
animals on board;           is not used for holding sewage during transport;
and           has no arrangements that could produce sewage; and
“ UNSP Exemption Certificate ” means the certificate described as
“International Sewage Pollution Prevention Exemption Certificate for Unmanned
Non-self-propelled (UNSP) Barges” in appendix II to Annex IV.

.

3.4

In regulation 18(5) (extension of periods of validity of Sewage Certificates
by a Certifying Authority), for “the Appendix” substitute  “appendix I to
Annex IV” .

3.5

In regulation 19(2) (extension of periods of validity of Sewage Certificates
by a surveyor), for “the Appendix” substitute  “appendix I to Annex IV” .

### Amendment of the Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018

4

4.1

The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018  are amended as follows.

4.2

In Schedule 1 (fees under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995), in the table in
paragraph 5 (fees for inspections etc.) of Part 1 (surveys, inspections and
applications for exemption), in Section J (prevention and control of
pollution)—

4.2.a

for the entry for “the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution)
Regulations 2019”, in the third column, for “None” substitute  “2022/1234” ;

4.2.b

for the entry for “the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage by
Ships) Regulations 2020”, in the third column, for “None” substitute
“2022/1234” .

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Vere
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport
We consent to the making of these Regulations       Andrew Stephenson   Steve
Double   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Oil Pollution)
Regulations 2019 ( S.I. 2019/42 ) (“ the 2019 Regulations ”) and the Merchant
Shipping (Prevention of Pollution by Sewage from Ships) Regulations 2020 (
S.I. 2020/620 ) (“ the 2020 Regulations ”).

  These Regulations implement amendments to Annex I (prevention of pollution
by oil) and Annex IV (prevention of pollution by sewage from ships) to the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships 1973
(MARPOL). The amendments were adopted by International Maritime Organization
(IMO) Resolution MEPC.330(76) on 17th June 2021 and came into force on 1st
November 2022.

  The amendments comprise an exemption for unmanned non-self-propelled barges
(“UNSP barges”) from the survey and certification requirements in Annexes I
and IV and require a specified exemption certificate to be issued in each
case. The amendments to Annex I are given effect by regulation 2(2), which
amends regulation 7 of the 2019 Regulations (exemptions). The amendments to
Annex IV are given effect by regulation 3(3), which inserts new regulation 6A
(exemption for UNSP barges) into the 2020 Regulations.

  The Regulations also make a number of consequential amendments to the 2020
Regulations (regulation 3(2), (4) and (5)) and to the Merchant Shipping (Fees)
Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/1104 ) (regulation 4).

  The Convention, and the Protocol of 1978 that modifies the Convention, and
the amendments to it, may be obtained in copy from the IMO, 4 Albert
Embankment, London SE1 7SR and is available on the Foreign, Commonwealth and
Development Office (FCDO) treaties database (
https://treaties.fcdo.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch ). The text of
the IMO Resolutions amending the Convention may be obtained from the IMO or
can be found on the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fcdo.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch ).

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

  An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside this instrument on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

