Title: The Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-08-09
Description: These Regulations provide, for a trial period, for fee loans for students taking designated higher education short courses which begin on or after 1st September 2022 and on or before 31st July 2025. These Regulations expire on 1st September 2025.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/349

## The Higher Education Short Course Loans Regulations 2022

    Education, England

  Made   21st March 2022

  Laid before Parliament   23rd March 2022

  Coming into force   13th April 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 22 and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher
Education Act 1998 .

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Higher Education Short Course Loans
Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 13th April 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, but apply only in relation to
England .

1.4

These Regulations apply to the provision of fee loans to students in
connection with an HE short course which begins on or after 1st September 2022
whether anything done under these Regulations is done before, on or after that
date.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 1998 Act ” means the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998; “ the 2002
Act ” means the Nationality, Immigration and Asylum Act 2002 ; “ applicant ”
means a person applying for an HESC loan; “ current course ” means the HE
short course in respect of which an applicant applies for an HESC loan;
“electronic signature” is so much of anything in electronic form as— is
incorporated into or logically associated with any electronic communication or
electronic data, and purports to be so incorporated or associated for the
purposes of being used in establishing the authenticity of the communication
or data, the integrity of the date, or both; “ eligible prisoner ” means a
prisoner— who is serving a sentence of imprisonment in the United Kingdom,
who  has been authorised by the prison Governor or Director or other
appropriate authority to study the current course, and whose earliest release
date is within 6 years of the first day of the current course; “ eligible
student ” has the meaning given in regulation  3 ; “ European Economic Area ”
means the areas comprised by the EEA states; “ fee loan ” means a loan for
fees made to an eligible student pursuant to regulations made by the Secretary
of State under section 22 of the 1998 Act; “ fees ” has the meaning given for
the purposes of Part 1 of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017 (see
section 85(2) of that Act) ; “ HE short course ” means a course designated by
the Secretary of State under regulation  4 ; “ HESC loan ” means a fee loan
made pursuant to these Regulations; “ higher education course ” means a course
providing education (whether or not in preparation for an examination) the
standard of which— is higher than the standard of a course in preparation for
examination for the General Certificate of Secondary Education, but is not
higher than the standard of a first degree course; “ information ” includes
documents; “ institution ” means an organisation delivering higher education
courses; “ the Islands ” means Channel Islands and the Isle of Man; “loan”,
except where otherwise indicated, means a loan made pursuant to regulations
made by the Secretary of State under section 22 of the 1998 Act, and includes
the interest accrued on the loan and any penalties or charges incurred in
connection with it; “ overseas territories ” means Anguilla; Aruba; Bermuda;
British Antarctic Territory; British Indian Ocean Territory; British Virgin
Islands; Cayman Islands; Falkland Islands; Faroe Islands; French Polynesia;
French Southern and Antarctic Territories; Gibraltar; Mayotte; Greenland;
Montserrat; Netherlands Antilles (Bonaire, Curaçao, Saba, Sint Eustatius, Sint
Maarten); Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands; South Georgia and the
South Sandwich Islands; St Barthélemy;   St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da
Cunha ; St Pierre et Miquelon; the Territory of New Caledonia and
Dependencies; Turks and Caicos Islands; and Wallis and Futuna; “ period of
eligibility ”, in relation to an eligible student, has the meaning given in
regulation  5 ; “ specified British overseas territories ” means Anguilla;
Bermuda; British Antarctic Territory; British Indian Ocean Territory; British
Virgin Islands; Cayman Islands; Falkland Islands; Gibraltar; Montserrat;
Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands; South Georgia and the South
Sandwich Islands;   St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha ; and Turks and
Caicos Islands.

2.2

In these Regulations, the following terms have the meanings given in paragraph
1(1) of Schedule 1—

2.2.aa

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.2.a

“person granted Calais leave”;

2.2.b

“person granted humanitarian protection”;

2.2.c

“person granted indefinite  leave to remain  as a bereaved partner”;

2.2.d

“person granted indefinite   leave to enter or remain  as a victim of domestic
violence or domestic abuse”;

2.2.e

“person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes”;

2.2.ea

“person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes”

2.2.f

“person granted section 67 leave”;

2.2.g

“person granted stateless leave”;

2.2.h

“person with protected rights”;

2.2.i

“refugee”;

2.2.j

“residence scheme immigration rules”;

2.2.k

“Turkish worker”.

2.3

For the purposes of these Regulations, a reference to the United Kingdom and
Islands is a reference to the United Kingdom and the Islands taken together.

2.4

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person is not to be treated as
ordinarily resident in a place unless that person lawfully resides in that
place  (but see regulation 7(3) and (4)) .

2.5

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person who is ordinarily resident in
England, Wales, Scotland, Northern Ireland or the Islands, as a result of
having moved from another of those areas for the purposes of undertaking—

2.5.a

the current course, or

2.5.b

a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation, the person undertook
immediately before the current course,

is to be considered to be ordinarily resident in the place from which that
person moved.

2.6

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person (“ A ”) is to be treated as
ordinarily resident in an area if A would have been so resident but for the
fact that—

2.6.a

A,

2.6.b

A’s spouse or civil partner,

2.6.c

A’s parent, or

2.6.d

in the case of a dependent direct relative in the ascending line, A’s child or
child’s spouse or civil partner,

is or was temporarily employed outside the area in question.

2.7

For the purposes of paragraph  (6) , temporary employment outside the area in
question includes—

2.7.a

in the case of members of the regular naval, military or air forces of the
Crown, any period which they serve outside the United Kingdom as members of
such forces;

2.7.b

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of a specified British
overseas territory, any period which they serve outside the territory
comprising the United Kingdom and the specified British overseas territories
as members of such forces;

2.7.c

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of the Republic of Ireland,
any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the Republic of Ireland as members of such forces;

2.7.d

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EEA State or
Switzerland, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland as
members of such forces;

2.7.e

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of Turkey, any period which
they serve outside the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area, Switzerland and Turkey as members of such forces;

2.7.f

in the case of members of the regular armed forces of an EU overseas
territory, any period which they serve outside the territory comprising the
United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas
territories.

2.8

For the purposes of these Regulations, an area, other than the United Kingdom
or Gibraltar, which—

2.8.a

was previously not part of the EU or the European Economic Area, but

2.8.b

at any time before or after these Regulations come into force has become part
of one or other or both of those areas,

is to be considered to have always been a part of the European Economic Area.

2.9

For the purposes of these Regulations, an eligible prisoner is to be
considered ordinarily resident in the part of the United Kingdom where the
prisoner resided prior to sentencing.

### Eligibility

#### Eligible students

3

3.1

An eligible student qualifies for an HESC loan in connection with their
undertaking an HE short course in accordance with this regulation.

3.2

A person (“ P ”) is an eligible student in connection with an HE short course
if—

3.2.a

in assessing P’s application for an HESC loan, the Secretary of State
determines that either—

3.2.a.i

P falls within one of the categories set out in Part 2 of Schedule 1, and has
ratified any agreement for a loan (other than an excluded agreement) made with
P when P was under the age of 18, or

3.2.a.ii

P is a returning student,

3.2.b

P is not in breach of any obligation to repay any loan, and

3.2.c

P has not, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, shown by P’s conduct that
P is unfitted to receive support.

3.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a)(i)—

“ borrower ” means an eligible student to whom a fee loan has been made; “
excluded agreement ” means an agreement for a loan which is subject to the law
of Scotland and was made— on or after 25th September 1991, or before that
date, without the concurrence of the borrower’s curator or at a time when the
borrower had no curator; “ loan ” means a loan under any provision of— the
Education (Scotland) Act 1980 ; the Education (Student Loans) Act 1990 ;
regulations made under either of those Acts or the 1998 Act; the Education
(Student Loans) (Northern Ireland) Order 1990 ; the Education (Student
Support) (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 ; regulations made under either of
those Orders.

3.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a)(ii), P is a returning student if—

3.4.a

P took out an HESC loan in connection with a course which began before the
current course (referred to in this regulation as a “ previous course ”),

3.4.b

P begins the current course within the period of 12 months beginning with the
first day of the previous course, and

3.4.c

there has been no relevant change in P’s circumstances since P was determined
to be an eligible student in connection with the previous course.

3.5

For the purposes of paragraph  (4)(c) , there is a relevant change in P’s
circumstances if—

3.5.a

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being ordinarily resident
in England, or the United Kingdom, P has ceased to be ordinarily resident in
England or, as the case may be, the United Kingdom;

3.5.b

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P undertaking the course in
England, P has ceased to undertake the course in England;

3.5.c

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being a refugee, or the
spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a refugee (“ R ”)—

3.5.c.i

the refugee status of P or, as the case may be, R has expired,  ...

3.5.c.ii

no further leave to remain has been granted and no appeal is pending (within
the meaning of section 104 of the 2002 Act )  , and

3.5.c.iii

the person (P or R) whose refugee status has expired has not become a British
or Irish citizen;

3.5.d

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being a person with
humanitarian protection, or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of
a person with humanitarian protection (“ H ”)—

3.5.d.i

the period for which P or, as the case may be, H is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired,  ...

3.5.d.ii

no further leave to remain is granted and no appeal is pending (within the
meaning of section 104 of the 2002 Act)  , and

3.5.d.iii

the person (P or H) whose period for which they are allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen;

3.5.e

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being a person granted
Calais leave, a person granted section 67 leave or a person granted stateless
leave, or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of any such person (“
S ”)—

3.5.e.i

the period for which P or, as the case may be, S is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom, or the United Kingdom and Islands, has expired,  ...

3.5.e.ii

no further leave to remain has been granted  , and

3.5.e.iii

the person (P or S) whose period for which they are allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen;

3.5.f

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being a person with
protected rights with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules—

3.5.f.i

P no longer has extant limited leave to enter or remain granted by virtue of
those rules,  ...

3.5.f.ii

no further leave to enter or remain has been granted under those rules  , and

3.5.f.iii

P has not become a British or Irish citizen;

3.5.g

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of P being a person falling
within paragraph (a)(iii) or (iv) of the definition of “person with protected
rights” or meeting the conditions in paragraph  5(1)(a)(iii)  of Part 2 of
Schedule 1, P has ceased to be a person with protected rights  and has not
become a British or Irish citizen ;

3.5.h

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of being—

3.5.h.i

a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

3.5.h.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ A ”) granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes,

the period for which P, or, as the case may be, A, is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired  and the person (P or A) whose period for which
they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired has not become a
British or Irish citizen ;

3.5.i

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of being—

3.5.i.i

a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

3.5.i.ii

the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a person (“ U ”) granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes,

the period for which P, or, as the case may be, U, is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired  and the person (P or U) whose period for which
they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired has not become a
British or Irish citizen .

3.5.j

where the Secretary of State determined that P was an eligible student in
connection with the reference course by virtue of paragraph 25 of Schedule 1
(long residence), the period for which P is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom has expired and P has not become a British or Irish citizen.

3.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5), the reference course is—

3.6.a

the previous course in connection with P’s application for an HESC loan for
the current course, or

3.6.b

where P was determined to be a returning student in connection with the
previous course mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) (“course A”)—

3.6.b.i

the HE short course which was the previous course in connection with P’s
application for an HESC loan for course A, or

3.6.b.ii

where P was determined to be a returning student in connection with the
previous course mentioned in paragraph (i) (“course B”), the HE short course
which was the previous course in connection with P’s application for an HESC
loan for course B.

3.7

If P is an eligible prisoner, P may qualify for an HESC loan under this
regulation in respect of an HE short course which is taking place at the time
when they enter prison, are in prison or are released from prison.

#### Designated courses

4

4.1

A higher education course may be designated by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of section 22(1) of the 1998 Act where the course—

4.1.a

begins—

4.1.a.i

on or after 1st September 2022, and

4.1.a.ii

on or before 31st July 2025,

4.1.b

ends before 1st September 2025,

4.1.c

is of no more than 12 months duration,

4.1.d

has a size, in credits, of 30 or 40,

4.1.e

is being provided by an institution which is situated in England, and

4.1.f

is substantially provided in England.

4.2

The Secretary of State must publish, in such manner as the Secretary of State
considers appropriate, a list of courses designated under paragraph (1).

4.3

The Secretary of State may revoke or suspend the designation of a course which
is designated under paragraph (1).

4.4

If the Secretary of State revokes or suspends the designation of a course
under paragraph (3), the Secretary of State must update the list of courses
accordingly.

#### Period of eligibility

5

5.1

A student’s status as an eligible student is retained in connection with an HE
short course until the status terminates in accordance with this regulation or
regulation  6 .

5.2

The period for which an eligible student retains that status is the “period of
eligibility”.

5.3

Subject to paragraphs (4) to (6), the period of eligibility terminates at the
end of the ordinary duration of the HE short course.

5.4

The Secretary of State may terminate an eligible student’s period of
eligibility where the student has shown by their conduct that they are
unfitted to receive an HESC loan.

5.5

If the Secretary of State is satisfied that an eligible student has failed to
comply with any requirement to provide information under these Regulations or
has provided information which is inaccurate in a material particular, the
Secretary of State may take such of the following actions as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate in the circumstances—

5.5.a

terminate the period of eligibility;

5.5.b

determine that the student no longer qualifies for any HESC loan or a
particular amount of HESC loan;

5.5.c

treat any HESC loan paid to the student as an overpayment which may be
recovered under regulation  18 .

5.6

Where the period of eligibility terminates before the end of the ordinary
duration of the HE short course, the Secretary of State may, at any time,
renew the period of eligibility for such period as the Secretary of State
determines.

5.7

For the purposes of this regulation, the ordinary duration of an HE short
course is the period which a standard student would take to complete the
course.

5.8

For the purposes of paragraph (7) “ standard student ” means a student who is
taken—

5.8.a

to have begun the HE short course on the same date as the eligible student in
question,

5.8.b

not to be excused any part of the course,

5.8.c

not to repeat any part of the course, and

5.8.d

not to be absent from the course other than during vacations (if any).

#### Students who cease to be eligible students before the start of an HE short course

6

6.1

A person’s status as an eligible student in connection with an HE short course
terminates immediately before the first day of that course if any of
paragraphs (2) to (9) apply in relation that person.

6.2

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.2.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a refugee or
the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a refugee, P is an eligible
student in connection with an application for an HESC loan for the relevant
course, and

6.2.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the refugee status of P, or of
P’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent, as the case may be,  has
expired and—

6.2.i

no further leave to remain has been granted,

6.2.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002), and

6.2.iii

the person (P or P’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
refugee status has expired has not become a British or Irish citizen.

6.3

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.3.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted stateless leave or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-child of a
person granted stateless leave, P is an eligible student in connection with an
application for an HESC loan for the relevant course, and

6.3.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period for which the
person granted stateless leave is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has
expired and no further leave to remain has been granted  and the person (P or
P’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose period for which they
are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired has not become a British
or Irish citizen .

6.4

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.4.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted section 67 leave, P is an eligible student in connection with an
application for an HESC loan for the relevant course, and

6.4.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period for which P is
allowed to stay in the United Kingdom and Islands has expired and no further
leave to remain has been granted  and P has not become a British or Irish
citizen .

6.5

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.5.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted Calais leave, P is an eligible student in connection with an
application for an HESC loan for the relevant course, and

6.5.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period for which P is
allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to
remain has been granted  and P has not become a British or Irish citizen .

6.6

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.6.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted humanitarian protection or the spouse, civil partner, child or step-
child of a person granted humanitarian protection, P is an eligible student in
connection with an application for an HESC loan for the relevant course, and

6.6.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period for which the
person granted humanitarian protection is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom  has expired and—

6.6.i

no further leave to remain has been granted,

6.6.ii

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002), and

6.6.iii

the person (P or P’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent) whose
period for which they are allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired
has not become a British or Irish citizen.

6.7

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.7.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person with
protected rights with limited leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules, P is an eligible
student in connection with an application for an HESC loan for the relevant
course, and

6.7.b

as at the day before the current course begins, P no longer has extant limited
leave to enter or remain granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration
rules and no further leave to enter or remain has been granted under those
rules  and P has not become a British or Irish citizen .

6.8

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.8.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of falling within
paragraph (a)(iii) or (iv) of the definition of “person with protected rights”
or meeting the conditions in paragraph  5(1)(a)(iii)  in Part 2 of Schedule 1,
P is an eligible student in connection with an application for an HESC loan
for the relevant course, and

6.8.b

as at the day before the current course begins, P is not a person with
protected rights  and P has not become a British or Irish citizen .

6.9

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.9.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes  or the spouse, civil partner,
child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes
, P is an eligible student in connection with an application for an HESC loan
for the relevant course, and

6.9.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period   the person
granted leave under one of the Afghan schemes is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom has expired and that person has not become a British or Irish citizen.

6.9A

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.9A.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes  or the spouse, civil partner,
child or step-child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes
, P is an eligible student in connection with an application for an HESC loan
for the relevant course, and

6.9A.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period   the person
granted leave under one of the Ukraine schemes is allowed to stay in the
United Kingdom has expired and that person has not become a British or Irish
citizen.

6.9B

This paragraph applies in relation to a person (“ P ”) if—

6.9B.a

the Secretary of State has determined that, by virtue of being a person
granted leave under paragraph 25 of Schedule 1 (long residence), P is an
eligible student in connection with an application for an HESC loan for the
relevant course, and

6.9B.b

as at the day before the current course begins, the period P is allowed to
stay in the United Kingdom has expired and—

6.9B.b.i

no appeal is pending (within the meaning of section 104 of the Nationality,
Immigration and Asylum Act 2002); and

6.9B.b.ii

P has not become a British or Irish citizen.

6.10

In this regulation “ the relevant course ”, in relation to P, means—

6.10.a

the current course, or

6.10.b

where P is determined to be a returning student in connection with P’s
application for an HESC loan for the current course, the course which is the
reference course for the purposes of regulation 3(5).

#### Students who become eligible students after the start of an HE short course

7

7.1

Where one of the events specified in paragraph (2) occurs after the first day
of an HE short   course which results in a student becoming an eligible
student, the student   may qualify for an HESC loan in accordance with this
Part in respect of that course.

7.2

The events mentioned in paragraph (1) are—

7.2.a

the student, or the student’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent, is
recognised as a refugee;

7.2.b

the student, or the student’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent,
becomes a person granted stateless leave or a person granted humanitarian
protection;

7.2.c

the student becomes a person granted section 67 leave;

7.2.d

the student becomes a person granted Calais leave;

7.2.e

the student   or the student’s parent  becomes a person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain   as a victim or domestic violence or domestic abuse;

7.2.f

the student   or the student’s parent  becomes a person granted indefinite
leave to remain  as a bereaved partner;

7.2.g

the student  , or the student’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent,
becomes a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes;

7.2.ga

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 3 of Part 2 of Schedule 1;

7.2.gb

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 4 of Part 2 of Schedule 1;

7.2.h

the student becomes a person described in paragraph  5(1)(a)  of Part 2 of
Schedule 1;

7.2.i

the student becomes a person described in paragraph  13(1)(a)  of Part 2 of
Schedule 1;

7.2.ia

the student becomes a person described in paragraph 19 of Part 2 of Schedule
1;

7.2.j

the student becomes a person described in paragraph  23(a)  of Part 2 of
Schedule 1;

7.2.k

the student becomes a family member described in paragraph  16(1)(a) ,
17(1)(a) ,  20(1)(a)  or  21(1)(a)  of Part 2 of Schedule 1.

7.2.l

the student  , or the student’s spouse, civil partner, parent or step-parent,
becomes a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes.

7.3

Where an event specified in paragraph (2)(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) or
(l) occurs in relation to a student, paragraph (4) applies for the purposes of
determining whether that event results in the student becoming an eligible
student.

7.4

The student is, for the purposes of determining whether the student satisfies
any requirement in Schedule 1 to be ordinarily resident in England on the
first day of the HE short course, to be treated as if the student was, on the
course start date, lawfully residing in the place where the student was
residing on that date.

### Applications for HESC loans and related matters

#### Applications for an HESC loan

8

8.1

An applicant must apply for an HESC loan in connection with an HE short course
by completing and submitting to the Secretary of State an application in such
form and accompanied by such documentation as the Secretary of State may
require.

8.2

The Secretary of State may take such steps, and make such enquiries, as the
Secretary of State considers necessary to determine—

8.2.a

whether the applicant is an eligible student;

8.2.b

whether the applicant qualifies for an HESC loan;

8.2.c

the amount of HESC loan payable, if any.

8.3

The Secretary of State must notify the applicant of whether the applicant
qualifies for an HESC loan, and if so, the amount of HESC loan payable in
respect of the HE short course.

#### Time limits

9

9.1

An application for an HESC loan must reach the Secretary of State—

9.1.a

within the period of eligibility, and

9.1.b

before the applicant completes the HE short course for which support is
required.

9.2

But paragraph (1) does not apply where the Secretary of State, having regard
to the circumstances of the particular case, considers that the time limit
should be relaxed, in which case the application must reach the Secretary of
State not later than such date as the Secretary of State specifies.

#### Information

10

Schedule 2 contains provision about information.

#### Requirement to enter contract for HESC loan

11

11.1

To receive an HESC loan, a student must enter into a contract with the
Secretary of State.

11.2

Where the Secretary of State requires a contract to be signed by a student, an
electronic signature in such form as the Secretary of State may specify
satisfies such a requirement.

### HESC loan entitlement

#### Standard entitlement

12

12.1

When assessing an application for an HESC loan in respect of an HE short
course, the Secretary of State must determine the standard entitlement.

12.2

The standard entitlement of an eligible student for all HE short courses is a
maximum of four HESC loans.

12.3

A student undertaking more than one HE short course at any time may qualify
for a loan for each course.

#### Amount of loan

13

13.1

The amount of an HESC loan in respect of an HE short course must not exceed
the lesser of—

13.1.a

the maximum loan amount available in connection with that HE short course, and

13.1.b

the amount which the institution is charging the eligible student for the HE
short course.

13.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the maximum loan amount available in
connection with an HE short course is—

13.2.a

in the case of a course with a size, in credits, of 30, £2,310;

13.2.b

in the case of a course with a size, in credits, of 40, £3,080.

### Payment of HESC loans

#### Provision of United Kingdom national insurance number

14

14.1

The Secretary of State may make it a condition of entitlement to payment of an
HESC loan that the eligible student must provide the Secretary of State with
the student’s United Kingdom national insurance number.

14.2

Where the Secretary of State has imposed a condition under paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State must not make any payment of the HESC loan to the eligible
student before the Secretary of State is satisfied that the student has
complied with that condition.

14.3

Despite paragraph (2), the Secretary of State may pay an HESC loan to an
eligible student if the Secretary of State is satisfied that owing to
exceptional circumstances it would be appropriate to make such a payment
without the eligible student having complied with the condition imposed under
paragraph (1).

#### Information requirements

15

15.1

The Secretary of State may, at any time, request from an applicant or an
eligible student information that the Secretary of State considers is required
to recover an HESC loan.

15.2

The Secretary of State may, at any time, request from an applicant or an
eligible student sight of their national identity card, passport issued by the
state of which they are a national or their birth certificate.

15.3

Where the Secretary of State has requested information under this regulation,
the Secretary of State may withhold payment of an HESC loan until the person
provides—

15.3.a

what has been requested, or

15.3.b

a satisfactory explanation for not complying with that request.

#### Payment of HESC loans

16

16.1

The Secretary of State must pay the HESC loan for which an eligible student
qualifies to the institution to which the student is liable to make payment.

16.2

The Secretary of State must not pay the HESC loan until the Secretary of State
has received from the institution—

16.2.a

a request for payment, and

16.2.b

confirmation (in such form as may be required by the Secretary of State) that
the student is enrolled for the HE short course in connection with which the
student is applying for support and is undertaking that course.

16.3

The Secretary of State may refuse to pay an HESC loan to a student in
connection with an HE short course if that student is in receipt of public
funds for part or all of the fees for that course.

16.4

For the purposes of paragraph (4) “ public funds ” means moneys provided by
Parliament or by a government authority outside the United Kingdom.

#### Method of repayment

17

17.1

The Secretary of State may at any time require an applicant or an eligible
student to enter into an agreement to repay an HESC loan by a particular
method.

17.2

Where the Secretary of State has required an agreement as to the method of
repayment under paragraph (1), the Secretary of State may withhold any payment
of the HESC loan until the person provides what has been required.

#### Overpayments of HESC loans

18

18.1

Any overpayment of an HESC loan is recoverable by the Secretary of State from—

18.1.a

the institution, or

18.1.b

the student in respect of whom the payment of HESC loan is made.

18.2

An institution must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay any
amount of an HESC loan paid in respect of a student which for whatever reason
exceeds the amount of an HESC loan to which the student is entitled.

18.3

A student must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay any amount of
an HESC loan paid in respect of the student which for whatever reason exceeds
the amount of an HESC loan to which the student is entitled.

18.4

An overpayment of HESC loan may be recovered from a student under paragraph
(1)(b) in whichever one or more of the following ways the Secretary of State
considers appropriate in all the circumstances—

18.4.a

by subtracting the overpayment from any kind of grant or loan payable to the
student from time to time pursuant to regulations made by the Secretary of
State under section 22 of the 1998 Act;

18.4.b

by requiring the student to repay the HESC loan in accordance with regulations
made under section 22 of the 1998 Act;

18.4.c

by taking such other action for recovery of an overpayment as is available to
the Secretary of State.

### Expiry and savings provisions

#### Expiry and savings provisions

19

19.1

These Regulations expire on 1st September 2025.

19.2

Despite paragraph (1), these Regulations continue to have effect, on and after
1st September 2025 (“ the expiry date ”), for the purposes of, and in
connection with—

19.2.a

any application for an HESC loan made before the expiry date but not
determined immediately before that date (a “relevant application”);

19.2.b

the payment of an HESC loan where the eligible student to whom it is payable
is determined to qualify for the loan—

19.2.b.i

before the expiry date, or

19.2.b.ii

where the student makes a relevant application, on or after that date;

19.2.c

the recovery of any HESC loan, regardless of whether the loan is paid before,
on or after the expiry date;

19.2.d

the recovery of any overpayment of an HESC loan, regardless of whether the
overpayment is made before, on or after the expiry date.

      Michelle Donelan   Minister of State   Department for Education

Eligible students

Regulation 3

##### Interpretation

###### Interpretation: categories

1

1.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Citizens’ Rights Regulations ” means the Citizens’ Rights (Application
Deadline and Temporary Protection) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 ; “ EEA EFTA
separation agreement ” has the meaning given by the European Union (Withdrawal
Agreement) Act 2020  (see section 39 of that Act); “ immigration rules ” has
the meaning given in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 ; “ person
granted Calais leave ” means a person who— has extant leave to remain in the
United Kingdom under paragraph 352J, 352K, 352L or 352T (Calais leave and
“leave in line” granted by virtue of being a dependent child of a person
granted Calais leave) of the immigration rules, and has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the person was granted such
leave to remain; “ person granted humanitarian protection ” means a person—
who, on the grounds of humanitarian protection, has been granted leave to
remain under the immigration rules, whose leave to remain is extant, or in
respect of whose leave to remain an appeal is pending (within the meaning of
section 104 of the 2002 Act ), and who has been ordinarily resident in the
United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted
such leave to remain; “ person granted indefinite leave to remain as a
bereaved partner ” means a person— granted indefinite leave to remain in the
United Kingdom under any of the following provisions of the immigration rules—
paragraph BP 11.1 of Appendix Bereaved Partner, or  where such leave was
granted before the coming into force of Appendix Bereaved Partner— paragraph
288, as a person in relation to whom the requirements in paragraph 287(b) of
those rules were met (bereaved partners), paragraph 295N, as a person in
relation to whom the requirements in paragraph 295M of those rules were met
(bereaved partners), paragraph D-BPILR.1.1 of Appendix FM (bereaved partners),
or paragraph 36 of Appendix Armed Forces (bereaved partner of a member of HM
Forces),  and who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and
Islands since the person was granted such leave; “ person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain   as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse
” means a person— granted indefinite   leave to enter or remain   in the
United Kingdom under any of the following provisions of the immigration rules—
paragraph VDA 9.1 of the Appendix Victim of Domestic Abuse, or  where such
leave was granted before the coming into force of the Appendix Victim of
Domestic Abuse, paragraph 289B (victims of domestic violence), paragraph
D-DVILR.1.1. of Appendix FM (victims of domestic abuse) or paragraph 40 of
Appendix Armed Forces (victims of domestic violence: partners of members of
the armed forces), who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and
Islands since the person was granted such leave; “ person granted leave under
one of the Afghan Schemes ” means— a person granted leave under the Afghan
Citizens Resettlement Scheme, or a person granted leave under the Afghan
Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme;   “ person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes ” means a person granted leave under the Homes for
Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, a person granted leave under the Ukraine Extension
Scheme  , a person granted leave under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme
or a person granted leave under the Ukraine Family Scheme;     “ person
granted leave under the Ukraine Permission Extension Scheme ” means a person—
who has leave to remain in the United Kingdom under the Ukraine Permission
Extension Scheme; and who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom
and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such leave;   “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person who— has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens
Resettlement Scheme,   and   ... has been ordinarily resident in the United
Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was granted such
leave; “ person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance
Policy Scheme ” means a person who— has— indefinite leave to enter the United
Kingdom under paragraph 276BA2, or indefinite leave to remain under paragraph
276BS2, of the immigration rules, having been relocated to the United Kingdom
pursuant to paragraph 276BB1(iii)(a) of the immigration rules,   indefinite
leave to enter or indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom under
paragraph ARAP 6.1 of Appendix Afghan Relocation and Assistance Policy of the
immigration rules,   leave to enter the United Kingdom on the basis of the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme,  or   indefinite leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside the immigration rules, on the
basis of the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme,   and   ... has
been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since the person was granted such leave;   “ person granted leave under
the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme ” means a person— who has leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph UKR 19.1 of Appendix
Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971; or outside the Immigration Rules as defined in section
33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971 where the person— was residing in Ukraine
immediately before 1st January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with the
Russian invasion which took place on 24th February 2022; and who has been
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period
since the person was granted such leave; “ person granted leave under the
Ukraine Extension Scheme ” means a person— who has leave to remain in the
United Kingdom under paragraph UKR 27.1 of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the
Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971; and
who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout
the period since the person was granted such leave; “ person granted leave
under the Ukraine Family Scheme ” means a person— who has leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph UKR 9.1 of Appendix Ukraine
Scheme of the Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971; or outside the Immigration Rules as defined in section 33(1) of the
Immigration Act 1971 where the person— was residing in Ukraine immediately
before 1st January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with the Russian
invasion which took place on 24th February 2022; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;   “ person granted section 67 leave ” means a
person— who— has extant leave to remain as a person granted leave under
paragraph 352ZG of the immigration rules, having been relocated to the United
Kingdom pursuant to arrangements made by the Secretary of State under section
67 of the Immigration Act 2016 , or is a dependent child of such a person who
has been granted “leave in line” under paragraph 352ZO of the immigration
rules, and who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands
throughout the period since the person was granted such leave; “ person
granted stateless leave ” means a person who— has extant leave to remain as a
stateless person under the immigration rules, and has been ordinarily resident
in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was
granted such leave; “ person with protected rights ” has the meaning given in
sub-paragraph (2); “ refugee ” means a person who is recognised by Her
Majesty’s government as a refugee within the meaning of the United Nations
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28th July 1951
as extended by the Protocol thereto which entered into force on 4th October
1967; “ the relevant period ” has the meaning given by regulation 4 of the
Citizens’ Rights Regulations; “ relevant person of Northern Ireland ” has the
meaning given by residence scheme immigration rules; “ residence scheme
immigration rules ” has the meaning given by section 17(1) of the European
Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020; “ Turkish worker ” means a Turkish
national who— is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands, and
is, or has been, lawfully employed in the United Kingdom.

1.2

“ Person with protected rights ” means—

1.2.a

a person within the personal scope of the citizens’ rights provisions who—

1.2.a.i

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted by virtue of
residence scheme immigration rules,

1.2.a.ii

is an Irish citizen who, pursuant to section 3ZA of the Immigration Act 1971 ,
does not require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,

1.2.a.iii

is an applicant for the purposes of regulation 4 of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations, where the relevant period has not expired, or

1.2.a.iv

otherwise has rights deemed to apply by virtue of any of the citizens’ rights
deeming provisions, or

1.2.b

a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland for the purposes of
residence scheme immigration rules, where that family member has leave to
enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme
immigration rules.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2) “ citizens’ rights deeming provisions ”
means—

1.3.a

Article 18(2) and (3) of the EU withdrawal agreement (issuance of residence
documents),

1.3.b

Article 17(2) and (3) of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (issuance of
residence documents), or

1.3.c

Article 16(2) and (3) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (issuance of
residence documents).

1.4

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person (“ P ”) is within the personal
scope of the citizens’ rights provisions if P falls within—

1.4.a

Article 10 of the EU withdrawal agreement (personal scope),

1.4.b

Article 9 of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (personal scope), or

1.4.c

Article 10 of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (personal scope).

###### Interpretation of Schedule 1

2

2.1

In this Schedule—

“ Directive 2004/38 ” means Directive 2004/38 of the European Parliament and
of the Council of 29th April 2004 on the rights of citizens of the Union and
their family members to move and reside freely in the territory of the Member
States; “ EEA frontier self-employed person ” means an EEA national who— is a
self-employed person in England, and resides in Switzerland or the territory
of an EEA state and returns to the national’s residence in Switzerland or that
EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at least once a week; “ EEA frontier
worker ” means an EEA national who— is a worker in England, and resides in
Switzerland or the territory of an EEA state and returns to the national’s
residence in Switzerland or that EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at
least once a week; “ EEA migrant worker ” means an EEA national who is a
worker, other than an EEA frontier worker, in the United Kingdom; “ EEA
national ” means a national of an EEA state; “ EEA self-employed person ”
means an EEA national who is a self-employed person, other than an EEA
frontier self-employed person, in the United Kingdom; “ employed person ”
means an employed person within the meaning of Annex 1 to the Swiss Agreement;
“ EU national ” means a national of a member State;   “ evacuated or assisted
British national from Afghanistan ” means a person— who is a British citizen,
a British overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas), a
British Overseas citizen, a British subject under the British Nationality Act
1981 or a British protected person within the meaning of that Act; who was
either— evacuated from Afghanistan by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, a
North Atlantic Treaty Organisation member state, Pakistan, Uzbekistan,
Tajikistan, Iran or Qatar during the period of the operation known as
Operation Pitting, which began on 14th August 2021 and ended on 28th August
2021; or assisted by or on behalf of the United Kingdom, after 28th August
2021 and before 6th January 2022, to leave Afghanistan; and who has been
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since they were
evacuated from or otherwise left Afghanistan;   “family member”, unless
otherwise indicated— in relation to an EEA frontier worker, an EEA migrant
worker, an EEA frontier self-employed person, an EEA self-employed person or a
relevant person of Northern Ireland who is treated as an EEA migrant worker or
an EEA self-employed person by virtue of paragraph  13(3) , means— that
person’s spouse or civil partner, direct descendants of the person or of the
person’s spouse or civil partner who are— under the age of 21, or dependants
of the person or the person’s spouse or civil partner, or dependent direct
relatives in the ascending line of that person or that person’s spouse or
civil partner; in relation to a Swiss employed person, a Swiss frontier
employed person, a Swiss frontier self-employed person or a Swiss self-
employed person, means— that person’s spouse or civil partner, or that
person’s child or the child of that person’s spouse or civil partner; in
relation to an EU national who falls within Article 7(1)(c) of Directive
2004/38, or, for the purposes of paragraph  16 , or a relevant person of
Northern Ireland who would fall within Article 7(1)(c) of Directive 2004/38 if
that person were an EU national or solely an EU national, means— that person’s
spouse or civil partner, or direct descendants of the person or of the
person’s spouse or civil partner who are— under the age of 21, or dependants
of the person or the person’s spouse or civil partner; in relation to an EU
national who falls within Article 7(1)(b) of Directive 2004/38, or, for the
purposes of paragraph  16 , in relation to a relevant person of Northern
Ireland who would fall within Article 7(1)(b) of Directive 2004/38 if that
person were an EU national or solely an EU national, means— that person’s
spouse or civil partner, direct descendants of the person or of the person’s
spouse or civil partner who are— under the age of 21, or dependants of the
person or the person’s spouse or civil partner, or dependent direct relatives
in the ascending line of that person or that person’s spouse or civil partner;
in relation to a United Kingdom national, for the purposes of paragraph  17
or  21  or for the purposes of paragraph  20  in relation to a person settled
in the United Kingdom, means— that person’s spouse or civil partner, or direct
descendants of the person or of the person’s spouse or civil partner who are
dependants of that person or that person’s spouse or civil partner; “ parent ”
means a parent, guardian or other person having parental responsibility, and
child is to be construed accordingly; “ self-employed person ” means— in
relation to an EEA national, a person who is self-employed within the meaning
of Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or the EEA Agreement, as the case may be; in
relation to a Swiss national, a person who is self-employed within the meaning
of Annex 1 to the Swiss Agreement; “ settled ” has the meaning given in
section 33(2A) of the Immigration Act 1971 ; “ Swiss Agreement ” means the
Agreement between the EU and its member States, of the one part, and the Swiss
Confederation, of the other, on the Free Movement of Persons signed at
Luxembourg on 21st June 1999  and which came into force on 1st June 2002; “
Swiss citizens’ rights agreement ” has the meaning given by the European Union
(Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 (see section 39 of that Act); “ Swiss employed
person ” means a Swiss national who is an employed person, other than a Swiss
frontier employed person, in the United Kingdom; “ Swiss frontier employed
person ” means a Swiss national who— is an employed person in England, and
resides in Switzerland or the territory of an EEA state and returns to the
national’s residence in Switzerland or that EEA state, as the case may be,
daily or at least once a week; “ Swiss frontier self-employed person ” means a
Swiss national who— is a self-employed person in England, and resides in
Switzerland or the territory of an EEA state and returns to the national’s
residence in Switzerland or that EEA state, as the case may be, daily or at
least once a week; “ Swiss self-employed person ” means a Swiss national who
is a self-employed person, other than a Swiss frontier self-employed person,
in the United Kingdom; “ United Kingdom national ” has the meaning given by
Article 2(d) of the EU withdrawal agreement; “ worker ” means a worker within
the meaning of Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or the EEA Agreement, as the
case may be.

2.2

For the purposes of this Schedule, a reference to a “Member State” or “State”
in Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 is to be read as including the United
Kingdom.

##### Categories

###### Persons who are settled in the United Kingdom

3

3.1

A person—

3.1.a

who  ...—

3.1.a.i

is settled in the United Kingdom and does not fall within paragraph 5, and

3.1.a.ii

is ordinarily resident in England  on the first day of the HE short course ,

3.1.b

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course, and

3.1.c

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose residence in the United Kingdom and
Islands has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (b)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

3.2

Paragraph (c) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands in accordance
with regulation 2(6).

4

4.1

A person—

4.1.a

who  ... is settled in the United Kingdom and does not fall within paragraph
5 ,

4.1.b

who is undertaking the HE short course in England,

4.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the Republic of Ireland throughout the three-year
period preceding the first day of the HE short course, and has been ordinarily
resident in the Republic of Ireland for at least part of that period,

4.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the Republic of Ireland has not
during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c) been wholly or
mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education, and

4.1.e

who did not move to England from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking
the current course, or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation,
the person undertook immediately before the current course.

4.2

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom, the Islands and the
Republic of Ireland in accordance with regulation 2(6).

5

5.1

A person who—

5.1.a

meets one of the following conditions—

5.1.a.i

the person is within the personal scope of the citizens’ rights provisions and
is settled in the United Kingdom by virtue of the grant of indefinite leave to
enter or remain under residence scheme immigration rules;

5.1.a.ii

the person—

5.1.a.ii.aa

is within the personal scope of the citizens’ rights provisions,

5.1.a.ii.bb

is an Irish citizen settled in the United Kingdom who, pursuant to section 3ZA
of the Immigration Act 1971, does not require leave to enter or remain in the
United Kingdom, and

5.1.a.ii.cc

would meet the eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to enter or
remain in the United Kingdom granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration
rules if that person were to make an application for such leave;

5.1.a.iii

the person—

5.1.a.iii.aa

is within the personal scope of the citizens’ rights provisions,

5.1.a.iii.bb

is an applicant for the purpose of regulation 4 of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations, or otherwise has rights deemed to apply by virtue of any of the
provisions specified in sub-paragraph (3), and

5.1.a.iii.cc

has, or is treated as having a right of permanent residence for the purposes
of the Immigration (European Economic Area) Regulations 2016 , as those
Regulations continue to have effect by virtue of the Citizens’ Rights
Regulations in relation to that person during the relevant period or otherwise
has a deemed right of permanent residence by virtue of any of the provisions
specified in sub-paragraph (3);

5.1.a.iv

the person is a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland for the
purposes of residence scheme immigration rules, where that family member is
settled in the United Kingdom by virtue of the grant of indefinite leave to
enter or remain under residence scheme immigration rules,

5.1.b

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course,

5.1.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course, and

5.1.d

in a case where the person’s ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (c)
was wholly or mainly for the purposes of receiving full-time education, was
ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the
European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas territories immediately
before the period of ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (c).

5.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii)(cc) “ the eligibility
requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
granted by virtue of residence scheme immigration rules ” means the
eligibility requirements for indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom in accordance with paragraph EU11 of Appendix EU to the immigration
rules.

5.3

The provisions mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(iii)(bb) and (cc) are—

5.3.a

Article 18(3) of the EU withdrawal agreement (issuance of residence
documents);

5.3.b

Article 17(3) of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (issuance of residence
documents);

5.3.c

Article 16(3) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (issuance of residence
documents).

###### Refugees and their family members

6

6.1

A person who—

6.1.a

is a refugee,

6.1.b

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since they were recognised as a refugee, and

6.1.c

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

6.2

A person who—

6.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a refugee,

6.2.b

on the asylum application date, was the spouse or civil partner of the
refugee,

6.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

6.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

6.3

A person who—

6.3.a

is the child of a refugee or the child of the spouse or civil partner of a
refugee,

6.3.b

on the asylum application date—

6.3.b.i

was under the age of 18, and

6.3.b.ii

was the child of the refugee or the child of a person who was the spouse or
civil partner of the refugee on that date,

6.3.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

6.3.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

6.4

In this paragraph “ the asylum application date ” means the date on which the
refugee made the application for asylum.

###### Persons granted stateless leave and their family members

7

7.1

A person granted stateless leave, who is ordinarily resident in England on the
first day of the HE short course.

7.2

A person who—

7.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted stateless leave,

7.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of a person
granted stateless leave,

7.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

7.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

7.3

A person who—

7.3.a

is the child of a person granted stateless leave or the child of the spouse or
civil partner of a person granted stateless leave,

7.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

7.3.b.i

the child of a person granted stateless leave or the child of a person who, on
that date, was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted stateless
leave, and

7.3.b.ii

under the age of 18,

7.3.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

7.3.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

7.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted stateless leave made an application to remain in the United
Kingdom as a stateless person under the immigration rules.

###### Persons granted section 67 leave

8

A person granted section 67 leave, who is ordinarily resident in England on
the first day of the HE short course.

###### Persons granted indefinite  

9

9.1

A person granted indefinite   leave to enter or remain   as a victim of
domestic violence or domestic abuse, who is ordinarily resident in England on
the first day of the HE short course.

9.2

A person—

9.2.a

granted indefinite leave to enter or remain;

9.2.b

who—

9.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a
victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse; and

9.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence or domestic abuse;

9.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

9.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

9.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

9.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to enter or remain as a victim of domestic violence
or domestic abuse made an application to enter or remain in the United Kingdom
on those grounds under the immigration rules.

###### Persons granted Calais leave

10

A person granted Calais leave, who is ordinarily resident in England on the
first day of the HE short course.

###### Persons granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner 

11

11.1

A person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner, who is
ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

11.2

A person—

11.2.a

granted indefinite leave to remain;

11.2.b

who—

11.2.b.i

is the child of a person granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved
partner; and

11.2.b.ii

on the leave application date, was the child of the person granted indefinite
leave to remain as a bereaved partner;

11.2.c

who was under 18 on the leave application date;

11.2.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands since the
person was granted such leave; and

11.2.e

who is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

11.3

In this paragraph, “ leave application date ” means the date on which a person
granted indefinite leave to remain as a bereaved partner made an application
to remain in the United Kingdom on those grounds under the immigration rules.

###### Persons granted humanitarian protection and their family members

12

12.1

A person granted humanitarian protection, who is ordinarily resident in
England on the first day of the HE short course.

12.2

A person who—

12.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted humanitarian protection,

12.2.b

on the asylum application date, was the spouse or civil partner of the person
granted humanitarian protection,

12.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

12.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

12.3

A person who—

12.3.a

is the child of a person granted humanitarian protection or the child of the
spouse or civil partner of a person granted humanitarian protection,

12.3.b

on the asylum application date, was—

12.3.b.i

the child of a person granted humanitarian protection or the child of a person
who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted humanitarian
protection on that date, and

12.3.b.ii

under the age of 18,

12.3.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

12.3.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

12.4

In this paragraph “ asylum application date ” means the date on which the
person granted humanitarian protection made the application for asylum.

###### Workers, employed persons, self-employed persons and their family members

13

13.1

A person with protected rights, or a frontier worker within the meaning of
regulation 3 of the Citizens’ Rights (Frontier Workers) (EU Exit) Regulations
2020 , who—

13.1.a

is—

13.1.a.i

an EEA migrant worker or an EEA self-employed person,

13.1.a.ii

a Swiss employed person or a Swiss self-employed person,

13.1.a.iii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (i) or (ii),

13.1.a.iv

an EEA frontier worker or an EEA frontier self-employed person,

13.1.a.v

a Swiss frontier employed person or a Swiss frontier self-employed person, or

13.1.a.vi

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (iv) or (v),

13.1.b

subject to sub-paragraph (2), is ordinarily resident in England on the first
day of the HE short course, and

13.1.c

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the HE short course either—

13.1.c.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European
Economic Area and Switzerland, or

13.1.c.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area,
Switzerland and the overseas territories, where at least part of that ordinary
residence was in the overseas territories.

13.2

Paragraph (b) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply where the person applying
for support falls within paragraph (a)(iv), (v) or (vi) of that sub-paragraph.

13.3

In this paragraph, a description of a person in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i) is to
be read as if it includes a relevant person of Northern Ireland who would, if
that person were an EEA national or solely an EEA national, be an EEA migrant
worker or an EEA self-employed person.

14

14.1

A person with protected rights who—

14.1.a

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course,

14.1.b

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the HE short course either—

14.1.b.i

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European
Economic Area and Switzerland, or

14.1.b.ii

in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area,
Switzerland and the overseas territories where at least part of that ordinary
residence was in the overseas territories, and

14.1.c

is entitled to support by virtue of Article 10 of  Regulation (EU) No 492/2011
of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 April 2011 on freedom of
movement for workers within the Union (“ the Workers Regulation ”), as it had
effect immediately before IP completion day, as extended by the EEA Agreement,
as it had effect immediately before IP completion day.

14.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)(c), in Article 10 of the Workers
Regulation—

14.2.a

the reference to a “national of a Member State” is to be read as including a
relevant person of Northern Ireland;

14.2.b

the reference to “another Member State” is to be read as including the United
Kingdom, and the references to “that State” are to be construed accordingly.

###### Persons who are settled in the United Kingdom and have exercised a right of residence elsewhere

15

15.1

A person who—

15.1.a

is settled in the United Kingdom,

15.1.b

was ordinarily resident in England and settled in the United Kingdom
immediately before leaving the United Kingdom and who has exercised a right of
residence before IP completion day,

15.1.c

was ordinarily resident immediately before IP completion day—

15.1.c.i

in the territory comprising Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland (“the relevant territory”), or

15.1.c.ii

in the United Kingdom, where that ordinary residence began after 31st December
2017 immediately following a period of ordinary residence in the relevant
territory,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom and the relevant territory throughout the period beginning on IP
completion day and ending immediately before the first day of the HE short
course,

15.1.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day on the HE short
course,

15.1.e

has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom
and the relevant territory throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the HE short course, and

15.1.f

in a case where the person’s ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (e)
was wholly or mainly for the purposes of receiving full-time education, was
ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom and the
relevant territory immediately before the period of ordinary residence
referred to in paragraph (e).

15.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, a person has exercised a right of
residence if that person who—

15.2.a

is—

15.2.a.i

a United Kingdom national,

15.2.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national for the purposes of Article 7 of
Directive 2004/38 (or corresponding purposes under the EEA Agreement or Swiss
Agreement), or

15.2.a.iii

a person who had the right of permanent residence, and

15.2.b

either—

15.2.b.i

has exercised a right under Article 7 of Directive 2004/38 or any equivalent
right under the EEA Agreement or Swiss Agreement in a state other than the
United Kingdom, or

15.2.b.ii

in the case of a person who is settled in the United Kingdom and had the right
of permanent residence, has gone to the state within the territory comprising
the European Economic Area and Switzerland of which the person is a national
or of which the person in relation to whom the person is a family member is a
national.

15.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), a person had the right of permanent
residence if they had a right which arose under Directive 2004/38 to reside
permanently in the United Kingdom without restriction.

###### EU nationals etc

16

16.1

A person with protected rights—

16.1.a

who is—

16.1.a.i

an EU national on the first day of the HE short course,

16.1.a.ii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (i), or

16.1.a.iii

a family member of a relevant person of Northern Ireland,

16.1.b

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

16.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas territories
throughout the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short
course, and

16.1.d

subject to paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory comprising
the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purposes of receiving full-time education.

16.2

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas territories in
accordance with regulation 2(6).

###### United Kingdom nationals

17

17.1

A person—

17.1.a

who is—

17.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national on the first day of the HE short course, or

17.1.a.ii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (i),

17.1.b

who was ordinarily resident immediately before IP completion day—

17.1.b.i

in the territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland, or

17.1.b.ii

in the United Kingdom, where that ordinary residence began after 31st December
2017 immediately following a period of ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period beginning on IP completion day and ending immediately before the first
day of the HE short course,

17.1.c

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

17.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day HE short course, and

17.1.e

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

17.2

Paragraph (e) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland in accordance with
regulation 2(6).

17.3

Where a person (“ P ”) falls within sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii), the person in
relation to whom P is a family member must also meet the requirements of
paragraphs (b) and (d) of sub-paragraph (1).

18

18.1

A person—

18.1.a

who is an Irish citizen on the first day of the HE short course,

18.1.b

who was ordinarily resident immediately before IP completion day—

18.1.b.i

in the territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland, or

18.1.b.ii

in the United Kingdom, where that ordinary residence began after 31st December
2017 immediately following a period of ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period beginning on IP completion day and ending immediately before the first
day of the HE short course,

18.1.c

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

18.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day HE short course, and

18.1.e

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

18.2

Paragraph (e) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland in accordance with
regulation 2(6).

19

19.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4),  A person—

19.1.a

who is

19.1.a.i

settled in the United Kingdom  ...,  or

19.1.a.ii

a person who is a British citizen and who—

19.1.a.ii.aa

was born in the British Indian Ocean Territory or, prior to 8th November 1965,
in those islands designated as the British Indian Ocean Territory on that
date; or

19.1.a.ii.bb

is a direct descendant of a person who was born in the British Indian Ocean
Territory or, prior to 8th November 1965, in those islands designated as the
British Indian Ocean Territory on that date;

19.1.b

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

19.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the specified British overseas territories
for at least part of the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE
short course,

19.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas territories throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course,

19.1.e

who did not move to England from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking
the current course or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation,
the person undertook immediately before undertaking the current course, and

19.1.f

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the Islands and the specified British overseas
territories has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

19.2

Paragraph (f) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the Islands and the specified British overseas territories in accordance with
regulation 2(6).

19. 

For the purposes of paragraphs (c) and (d) of sub-paragraph (1), a person
mentioned in paragraph (a)(ii) of sub-paragraph (1) is treated as being
ordinarily resident in the specified British overseas territories in any
period before the first day of the HE short course in which they are not
ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom or the Islands.

19.4

Paragraphs (e) and (f) of sub-paragraph (1) do not apply to a person mentioned
in paragraph (a)(ii) of that sub-paragraph.

20

20.1

A person—

20.1.a

who is a family member of a person who is settled in the United Kingdom on the
first day of the HE short course,

20.1.b

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

20.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout
the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course,

20.1.d

who did not move to England from the Islands for the purpose of undertaking
the current course or a course which, disregarding any intervening vacation,
the person undertook immediately before undertaking the current course, and

20.1.e

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the United Kingdom
and Islands has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

20.2

Paragraph (e) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
the Islands and the specified British overseas territories in accordance with
regulation 2(6).

###### Persons resident in Gibraltar

21

21.1

A person—

21.1.a

who is—

21.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national who has resident status in Gibraltar granted by the
Government of Gibraltar; or

21.1.a.ii

a family member of a United Kingdom national where that family member has
resident status in Gibraltar granted by the Government of Gibraltar,

21.1.b

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

21.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course, and

21.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

21.2

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person treated as being
ordinarily resident in the territory referred to in paragraph (c) of that sub-
paragraph in accordance with regulation 2(6).

21.3

A person—

21.3.a

who is—

21.3.a.i

an EU national who has a right of residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU
withdrawal agreement, or

21.3.a.ii

a family member of an EU national, where that family member has a right of
residence in Gibraltar arising under the EU withdrawal agreement,

21.3.b

who is undertaking an HE short course in England,

21.3.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the overseas territories
throughout the three-year period preceding the first day of the HE short
course, and

21.3.d

subject to sub-paragraph (4), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area, Switzerland and the
overseas territories has not during any part of the period referred to in
paragraph (c) been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time
education.

21.4

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraph (3) does not apply to a person treated as being
ordinarily resident in the territory referred to in paragraph (c) of that sub-
paragraph in accordance with regulation 2(6).

###### EU nationals ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands

22

22.1

A person who—

22.1.a

is an EU national on the first day of the HE short course,

22.1.b

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course,

22.1.c

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
three-year period immediately preceding the first day of the HE short course,
and

22.1.d

in a case where the person’s ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (c)
was wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education, was
ordinarily resident immediately before the period of ordinary residence
referred to in that paragraph in the territory comprising—

22.1.d.i

the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland, or

22.1.d.ii

the overseas territories.

###### Children of Swiss nationals

23

A person with protected rights who—

23.a

is the child of a Swiss national who is entitled to support in the United
Kingdom by virtue of Article 18(2) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement,

23.b

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course,

23.c

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the course in either—

23.c.i

the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic
Area and Switzerland, or

23.c.ii

the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area,
Switzerland and the overseas territories, where at least part of that ordinary
residence was in the overseas territories, and

23.d

in a case where the person’s ordinary residence referred to in paragraph (c)
was wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education, was
ordinarily immediately before the period of ordinary residence referred to in
that paragraph in the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the
European Economic Area and Switzerland.

###### Children of Turkish workers

24

A person who—

24.a

is the child of a Turkish worker (“ T ”), where T was ordinarily resident in
the United Kingdom immediately before IP completion day,

24.b

immediately before IP completion day, was the child of T and ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom,

24.c

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course, and

24.d

has been ordinarily resident throughout the three-year period preceding the
first day of the HE short course in either—

24.d.i

the territory comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic
Area, Switzerland and Turkey, or

24.d.ii

the territory comprising the United Kingdom, the European Economic Area,
Switzerland, Turkey and the overseas territories where at least part of that
ordinary residence was in the overseas territories.

###### Long residence

25

25.1

A person—

25.1.a

who on the first day of the HE short course either—

25.1.a.i

is under the age of 18 and has lived in the United Kingdom throughout the
seven-year period preceding the first day of the HE short course, or

25.1.a.ii

is aged 18 or above and, preceding the first day of the HE short course, has
lived in the United Kingdom throughout either—

25.1.a.ii.aa

half their life, or

25.1.a.ii.bb

a period of 20 years,

25.1.b

who is ordinarily resident in England,

25.1.c

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout
the three-year period immediately preceding the first day of the HE short
course, and

25.1.d

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose residence in the United Kingdom and
Islands has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (c)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose or receiving full-time education.

25.2

Paragraph (d) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands in accordance with
regulation 2(6).

###### Persons granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes and their family members

26

26.1

A person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes who is ordinarily
resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

26.2

A person who—

26.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Afghan Schemes,

26.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person,

26.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

26.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

26.3

A person who—

26.3.a

is—

26.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

26.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Afghan Schemes,

26.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

26.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes, or

26.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Afghan Schemes on that date,

26.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date,

26.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

26.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

26.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

###### Evacuated or assisted British nationals from Afghanistan

27

An evacuated or assisted British national from Afghanistan who is ordinarily
resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

###### Persons granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes and their family members

28

28.1

A person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes who is ordinarily
resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

28.2

A person who—

28.2.a

is the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one of the
Ukraine Schemes,

28.2.b

on the leave application date, was the spouse or civil partner of that person,

28.2.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being granted leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

28.2.d

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

28.3

A person who—

28.3.a

is—

28.3.a.i

the child of a person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

28.3.a.ii

the child of the spouse or civil partner of a person granted leave under one
of the Ukraine Schemes,

28.3.b

on the leave application date, was—

28.3.b.i

the child of the person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes, or

28.3.b.ii

the child of a person who was the spouse or civil partner of a person granted
leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes on that date,

28.3.c

was under 18 on the leave application date,

28.3.d

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands and has not ceased to
be so resident since being given leave to enter or remain in the United
Kingdom, and

28.3.e

is ordinarily resident in England on the first day of the HE short course.

28.4

In this paragraph “ leave application date ” means the date on which the
person granted leave under one of the Ukraine Schemes made an application for
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom.

  Information

Regulation 10

1

Every applicant and eligible student must, as soon as reasonably practicable
after being requested to do so, provide the Secretary of State with such
information as the Secretary of State requires for the purposes of these
Regulations.

2

An applicant or eligible student must inform the Secretary of State and
provide the Secretary of State with particulars if any of the following
occurs—

2.a

they are expelled from their HE short course;

2.b

the start date or the completion date of their HE short course changes;

2.c

their home or term-time address or telephone number changes;

2.d

their name changes.

3

An institution must, as soon as reasonably practicable, inform the Secretary
of State and provide the Secretary of State with particulars if—

3.a

an applicant or an eligible student is expelled from their HE short course;

3.b

the start date or the completion date of an applicant’s or eligible student’s
HE short course changes.

4

Information provided to the Secretary of State pursuant to these Regulations
must be in the format that the Secretary of State requires.

5

If the Secretary of State requires any information provided pursuant to these
Regulations to be signed by the person providing it, an electronic signature
in such form as the Secretary of State may specify satisfies such a
requirement.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations provide, for a trial period, for fee loans for students
taking designated higher education short courses which begin on or after 1st
September 2022 and on or before 31st July 2025. These Regulations expire on
1st September 2025.

Regulation 3 makes provision about which students are eligible for a fee loan.

Regulation 4 makes provision about the higher education courses which may be
designated for the purposes of the fee loan system. Loans are available for
higher education courses of 12 months or less with a credit value of 30 or 40
credits and which will end before 1st September 2025. Regulations 5 to 7 make
provision about the period for which a student is eligible for a fee loan for
a course.

Part 3 makes provisions about applications for fee loans. A student cannot
apply for a loan retrospectively.

Part 4 sets out how many loans a student may be entitled to. A student is
entitled to a maximum of four loans and may take out more than one loan at a
time.

Part 5 makes provision for the payment of a fee loan following confirmation
from the course provider that the student is undertaking the course.

An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is foreseen.

