Title: The Feed Additives (Authorisations) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision as regards the authorisation of feed additives under Regulation (EC) 1831/2003 of the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use in animal nutrition (“Regulation (EC) 1831/2003”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/288

## The Feed Additives (Authorisations) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture

  Made   27th September 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   29th September 2022

  Coming into force   24th November 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by Articles 9(1), 13(6) and 18A(3) of Regulation  (EC) No.
1831/2003  of the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use
in animal nutrition , and all other powers enabling them to do so.
There has been consultation as required by Article 9 of Regulation  (EC) No.
178/2002  of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the
general principles and requirements of food law, establishing the European
Food Safety Authority and laying down procedures in matters of food safety .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Feed Additives (Authorisations)
(Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 24 November 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to Scotland only.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003 ” means Regulation  (EC) No. 1831/2003  of
the European Parliament and of the Council on additives for use in animal
nutrition, and           “ Regulation  (EC) 767/2009 ” means Regulation  (EC)
No. 767/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council on the placing on
the market and use of feed, amending European Parliament and Council
Regulation  (EC) No. 1831/2003  and repealing Council Directive  79/373/EEC ,
Commission Directive  80/511/EEC , Council Directives  82/471/EEC ,
83/228/EEC ,  93/74/EEC ,  93/113/EC  and  96/25/EC  and Commission  Decision
2004/217/EC .

2.2

Unless the contrary intention appears, any expression used both in these
Regulations and in Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003  or Regulation  (EC) 767/2009
has the same meaning as it has in those Regulations.

### Authorisations

3

3.1

The terms of modifications of authorisations in these Regulations are to be in
the same form as authorisations under Article 9 of Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003
.

3.2

Schedules 1 to 11 have effect.

3.3

Subject to Article 14(4) (renewal of authorisation) of Regulation  (EC)
1831/2003 , the authorisations set out in schedules 1 to 11 cease to have
effect at the end of 23 November 2032.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 306/2013

4

4.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 306/2013 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) for
weaned piglets and weaned Suidae other than Sus scrofa domesticus (holder of
authorisation Kemin Europa N.V.)  is amended as follows.

4.2

In the Annex, in the table, in the column headed—

4.2.a

“Additive”, for “ Bacillus subtilis ” substitute  “ Bacillus velezensis ” ,
and

4.2.b

“Composition, chemical formula, description, analytical method”, for “
Bacillus subtilis ”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “ Bacillus
velezensis ” .

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 787/2013

5

5.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 787/2013 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a
feed additive for turkeys for fattening and turkeys reared for breeding
(holder of authorisation Kemin Europa N.V.)  is amended as follows.

5.2

In the Annex, in the table, in the column headed—

5.2.a

“Additive”, for “Bacillus subtilis” substitute  “Bacillus velezensis” , and

5.2.b

“Composition, chemical formula, description, analytical method”, for “
Bacillus subtilis ”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “ Bacillus
velezensis ” .

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1020

6

6.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/1020 concerning the authorisation
of the preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a feed additive
for laying hens and minor poultry species for laying (holder of the
authorisation Kemin Europa NV)  is amended as follows.

6.2

In the Annex, in the table, in the column headed—

6.2.a

“Additive”, for “Bacillus subtilis” substitute  “Bacillus velezensis” , and

6.2.b

“Composition, chemical formula, description, analytical method”, for “
Bacillus subtilis ”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “ Bacillus
velezensis ” .

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2276

7

7.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2017/2276 concerning the authorisation
of a new use of the preparation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a
feed additive for sows (holder of the authorisation Kemin Europa N.V.)  is
amended as follows.

7.2

In the Annex, in the table, in the column headed—

7.2.a

“Additive”, for “  Bacillus subtilis ” substitute  “ Bacillus velezensis ” ,
and

7.2.b

“Composition, chemical formula, description, analytical method”, for “
Bacillus subtilis ”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “B acillus
velezensis ” .

### Transitional provision: 

8

8.1

The relevant feed additive, and premixtures containing it, which are produced
and labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions
of the prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

8.2

Compound feed, and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive,
intended for food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled before
the end of 23 November 2023 in accordance with the conditions of the prior
authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until the
existing stocks are exhausted.

8.3

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” means the feed additive  Saccharomyces cerevisiae
CNCM I-4407, with the identification number 4b1702, which was previously
authorised under the prior authorisation, and “ the prior authorisation ”
means  an authorisation contained in    Commission Regulation (EU) No.
883/2010  concerning the authorisation of a new use of  Saccharomyces
cerevisiae  NCYC Sc 47 as a feed additive for calves for rearing (holder of
the authorisation Société industrielle Lesaffre) .

### Transitional: 

9

9.1

Any substance or product labelled “ Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737)”, or as
containing “ Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737)”, but otherwise produced and
labelled in accordance with an authorisation contained in   assimilated direct
legislation mentioned in regulations 4 to 7, may continue to be placed on the
market and used under that authorisation.

9.2

The relevant feed additive, and premixtures containing it, which are produced
and labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions
of the prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

9.3

Compound feed, and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive,
intended for food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled before
the end of 23 November 2023 in accordance with the conditions of the prior
authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until the
existing stocks are exhausted.

9.4

Compound feed, and feed materials containing the relevant feed additive,
intended for non-food-producing animals, which are produced and labelled
before the end of 23 November 2024 in accordance with the conditions of the
prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used until
the existing stocks are exhausted.

9.5

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” means the feed additive  Bacillus velezensis  ATCC
PTA-6737 or, as formerly designated,  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737, with
the identification number 4b1823, which was previously authorised under the
prior authorisation, and “ the prior authorisation ”   means  an authorisation
contained in — Commission Regulation (EU) No. 107/2010  concerning the
authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening (holder of authorisation Kemin Europa NV) , or
Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 885/2011 concerning the
authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a feed additive for
chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening, quails, pheasants,
partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and ostriches (holder of
the authorisation Kemin Europa N.V.) .

### Transitional: Decoquinate (Deccox®) (identification number 51756i (formerly E756))

10

10.1

The relevant feed additive, and feed containing it, which are produced and
labelled before the end of 23 May 2023 in accordance with the conditions of
the prior authorisation, may continue to be placed on the market and used
until the existing stocks are exhausted.

10.2

In this regulation—

“ relevant feed additive ” means the feed additive decoquinate (Deccox®),
which was previously authorised under the prior authorisation with the
identification number E756, and “ the prior authorisation ” means  an
authorisation contained in   Regulation  (EC) No. 1289/2004  concerning the
authorisation for 10 years of the additive Deccox® in feedingstuffs, belonging
to the group of coccidiostats and other medicinal substances .

### Revocations

11

The   assimilated direct   legislation listed in schedule 12 is revoked
subject to regulations 8, 9(2) to (5) and 10.

      MAREE TODD   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       27th September 2022

Authorisation of a preparation of manganese chelate of lysine and glutamic
acid (identification number 3b509) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘nutritional additives’ and to the functional group
‘compounds of trace elements’, is authorised as an additive in animal
nutrition, subject to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule.

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Manganese chelate of lysine and glutamic acid
Identification number of the additive 3b509 Authorisation holder Additive
category Nutritional additives Functional group Compounds of trace elements
Additive composition A preparation of chelates of manganese with lysine and
chelates of manganese with glutamic acid in a ratio of 1:1 as a powder with
the following components: Manganese 15-17% Lysine 20-21.5% Glutamic acid
22-24% Moisture 3.5% maximum Nickel 4 ppm maximum Characterisation of the
active substance(s) Manganese-2,6-diaminohexanoic acid, chloride and hydrogen
sulphate salt (C 6 H 19 ClN 2 O 8 SMn). Manganese-2-aminopentanedioic acid,
sodium and hydrogen sulphate salt (C 5 H 10 NN a O 9 SMn). Analytical method
1. For quantification of total manganese in the feed additive and premixtures:
Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS) in accordance with international standard
BS EN ISO   6869:2001   entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of the
contents of calcium, copper, iron, magnesium, manganese, potassium, sodium and
zinc. Method using atomic absorption spectrometry ” ; Inductively Coupled
Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry, (ICP-AES) in accordance with European
standard EN 15510:2017 entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs. Methods of sampling
and analysis. Determination of calcium, sodium, phosphorus, magnesium,
potassium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, cobalt, molybdenum and lead by ICP-
AES ”  (for premixtures and feed only);  ... Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic
Emission Spectrometry after pressure digestion (ICP-AES) in accordance with
European standard EN 15621:2017 entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of
sampling and analysis – Determination of calcium, sodium, phosphorus,
magnesium, potassium, sulphur, iron, zinc, copper, manganese and cobalt after
pressure digestion by ICP-AES ” ... ; or  Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass
Spectrometry (ICP-MS) in accordance with international standard BS EN 17053:
2018 entitled “Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis.
Determination of trace elements, heavy metals and other elements in feed by
ICP-MS (multi-method)” .   2. For quantification of total manganese in feed
materials and compound feed: Atomic Absorption Spectrometry (AAS) –
Commission Regulation (EC) No. 152/2009  laying down the methods of sampling
and analysis for the official control of feed (Annex 4-C) ; Atomic Absorption
Spectrometry, AAS in accordance with international standard BS EN ISO
6869:2001; Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry, (ICP-AES)
in accordance with European standard EN 15510:2017 entitled “ Animal feeding
stuffs. Methods of sampling and analysis. Determination of calcium, sodium,
phosphorus, magnesium, potassium, iron, zinc, copper, manganese, cobalt,
molybdenum and lead by ICP-AES ” (for premixtures and feed only);  ...
Inductively Coupled Plasma – Atomic Emission Spectrometry after pressure
digestion, ICP-AES (EN 15621  : 2017  ) ... ; or  Inductively Coupled Plasma-
Mass Spectrometry (ICP-MS) in accordance with international standard BS EN
17053: 2018.   3. For quantification of lysine and glutamic acid in the feed
additive: Ion exchange chromatography coupled with post-column derivatisation
and photometric detection (IEC-VIS)  in accordance with BS EN ISO 13903:2005
entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of amino acids content . 4.
For determination of the chelated form   of the feed additive: Mid-infrared
(IR) spectrometry together with the determination of the content of trace
element and lysine and glutamic acid in the feed additive. Species or category
of animal All animal species Maximum age Not applicable Content of   element
(Mn)   in mg/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12% Minimum
content No minimum Maximum content Fish 100 (total) All other animal species
150 (total) Other provisions The additive must be incorporated into the feed
in the form of a premixture.

  Authorisation of a preparation of  Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026
(identification number 1k20759) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘technological additives’ and to the functional group
‘silage additives’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject
to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule.

  Table       Column 1 Column 2   Additive Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026
Identification number of the additive   1k20759 Authorisation holder
Additive category   Technological additives Functional group   Silage
additives Additive composition   A preparation of  Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM
29026 containing a minimum of 2 x 10 10  CFU/g additive Characterisation of
the active substance(s) Viable cells of  Lactobacillus buchneri  DSM 29026
Analytical methods 1. For enumeration (colony count) of the feed additive:
Spread plate method on MRS agar in accordance with European standard EN
15787:2021 entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis
– Detection and enumeration of Lactobacillus spp. used as feed additive ”
2. For identification of bacterial strain:         Pulsed Field Gel
Electrophoresis (PFGE)         Species or category of animal All animal
species Maximum age Not applicable Content of Lactobacillus buchneri DSM 29026
in CFU of additive/kg of fresh material Minimum content Minimum content of the
additive when not combined with other micro-organisms as silage additives:
5x10 7  CFU/kg of easy and moderately difficult to ensile fresh material .
Maximum content No maximum Other provisions In the directions for use of the
additive and premixtures, the storage conditions must be indicated.

Authorisation of a preparation of serine protease produced by  Bacillus
licheniformis  DSM 19670 (identification number 4a13) as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group
‘digestibility enhancers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition,
subject to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule.

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Serine protease  (EC 3.4.21-)
Identification number of the additive 4a13 Authorisation holder DSM
Nutritional Products Ltd   (Switzerland)   Additive category Zootechnical
additives Functional group Digestibility enhancers Additive composition Solid
and liquid preparation of serine protease (EC   3.4.21.-  ) Produced by
Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 19670 Having a minimum activity of 75,000 PROT/g
Characterisation of the active substance(s) Serine protease (EC   3.4.21.-  )
produced by  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 19670 CAS number: 37259-58-8 (serine
protease) EINECS number: 253-431-3 IUB number:   3.4.21.-   Analytical methods
For quantification of serine protease activity in the feed additive,
premixtures, compound feed and feed materials: Colourimetric method based on
the enzymatic reaction of serine protease on the Suc-Ala-Ala-Pro-Phe-pNA
substrate Species or category of animal Chickens for fattening Maximum age Not
applicable Content of Serine protease (units of activity/kg of complete feed
with a moisture content of 12%) Minimum content 15,000 PROT/kg Maximum content
No maximum Other provisions In the directions for use of the additive and
premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be
indicated.

Renewal of authorisation of pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 )
(identification number 3a831) as a feed additive for all animal species

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The additive specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘nutritional additives’ and to the functional group
‘vitamins, pro-vitamins and chemically well-defined substances having similar
effect’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject to the
conditions set out in the table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Pyridoxine hydrochloride (vitamin B 6 )
Identification number of the additive 3a831 Authorisation holder Additive
category Nutritional additives Functional group Vitamins, pro-vitamins and
chemically well-defined substances having similar effect Additive composition
Pyridoxine hydrochloride:   C 8 H 11 NO 3 . HCI   Purity criteria not less
than 98.5% Characterisation of the active substance(s) Pyridoxine
hydrochloride CAS no:58-56-0 EINECS no:200-386-2 Analytical methods 1. For the
determination of pyridoxine hydrochloride (Vitamin B 6 ) in the feed additive:
Titration with perchloric acid (Ph.Eur. 10 th  edition, monograph 0245) 2. For
the determination of pyridoxine hydrochloride (Vitamin B 6 ) in premixtures:
Reversed phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to UV detector
(RP-HPLC-UV) in accordance with the VDLUFA Method Book, Volume III, 13.9.1 3.
For the determination of pyridoxine hydrochloride (Vitamin B 6 ) in feed and
water: Reversed phase High Performance Liquid Chromatography coupled to
fluorescence detector (RP-HPLC-FLD) – method based in accordance with European
standard EN 14164:2014 entitled “  Foodstuffs – Determination of vitamin B6 by
high performance chromatography ” Species or category of animal All animal
species Maximum age Not applicable Content of Pyridoxine hydrochloride
(Vitamin B 6 ) in mg/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%
Minimum content No minimum Maximum content No maximum Other provisions 1. In
the directions for use of the additive and premixtures, the storage conditions
and stability to heat treatment must be indicated. 2. Pyridoxine hydrochloride
(Vitamin B  6 ) may be used via water for drinking.

Renewal of authorisation  ... of a preparation of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae
CNCM I-4407  ... (identification number 4b1702) as a feed additive for calves
for rearing

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group ‘gut
flora stabilisers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject
to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407  ...
Identification number of the additive 4b1702 Authorisation holder S.I.
Lesaffre Additive category Zootechnical additives Functional group Gut flora
stabilisers Additive composition Solid form preparation of  Saccharomyces
cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407 containing a minimum of 5x10 9  CFU/g Characterisation
of the active substance(s) Viable dried cells  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM
I-4407 Analytical methods 1. For enumeration (colony count): Pour plate method
using CGYE (yeast extract glucose chloramphenicol) agar in accordance with
European standard EN 15789:2021 entitled “  Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of
sampling and analysis – Detection and enumeration of Saccharomyces cerevisiae
used as feed additive ” 2. For identification of yeast strain: Polymerase
chain reaction (PCR) method in accordance with DD CEN/TS 15790:2008 entitled “
Animal Feeding Stuffs – PCR typing of probiotic strains of Sacccharomyces
cerevisiae (yeast) ” Species or category of animal Calves for rearing Maximum
age Not applicable Content of Saccharomyces cerevisiae CNCM I-4407 in CFU/kg
of complete feed with a moisture content of 12% Minimum content 1.5 x 10 9
CFU/kg Maximum content No maximum Other provisions In the directions of use of
the additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat
treatment must be indicated.

Renewal of authorisation (with modification) of a preparation of  Bacillus
velezensis  (ATCC PTA-6737) (identification number 4b1823) as a feed additive
for chickens for fattening, chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening,
quails, pheasants, partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and
ostriches, and its authorisation as a feed additive extending existing uses to
cover all minor poultry species (except for laying), ornamental birds,
sporting birds and game birds

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group ‘gut
flora stabilisers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject
to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Bacillus velezensis  (ATCC PTA-6737)
Identification number of the additive 4b1823 Authorisation holder Kemin Europa
N.V. Additive category Zootechnical additives Functional group Gut flora
stabilisers Additive composition Preparation of  Bacillus velezensis  ATCC
PTA-6737 containing a minimum of 8 x 10 10  CFU/g additive Characterisation of
the active substance(s) Viable spores of  Bacillus velezensis  (ATCC PTA-6737)
Analytical methods 1. For enumeration (colony count)  in the feed additive,
premixtures, feed materials and compound feed  : Spread plate method using
tryptone soya agar with pre-heat treatment of   feed samples   2. For
identification of bacterial strain Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE)
Species or category of animal Chickens for fattening, chickens reared for
laying, minor poultry species (except for laying), ornamental, sporting and
game birds Maximum age Not applicable Content of Bacillus velezensis (ATCC
PTA-6737) in CFU/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12% Minimum
content 1 x 10 7  CFU/kg Maximum content No maximum Other provisions 1. In the
directions for use of the additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and
stability to heat treatment must be indicated. 2. Where  Bacillus velezensis
(ATCC PTA-6737) is to be used in feed containing coccidiostats, this feed
additive is authorised for use with the following coccidiostats only, and in
accordance with their individual authorisation criteria: Decoquinate,
Diclazuril, Lasalocid  A sodium ,   Maduramicin ammonium , Monensin  sodium ,
Narasin, Narasine/Nicarbazin (as combined use only), Robenidine  hydrochloride
, Salinomycin  sodium .

Authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710
(identification number 4b1828) as a feed additive for laying hens, minor
poultry species for laying, poultry species for breeding and ornamental birds

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group ‘gut
flora stabilisers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject
to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule.

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710
Identification number of the additive 4b1828 Authorisation holder HuvePharma
NV Additive category Zootechnical additives Functional group Gut flora
stabilisers Additive composition Solid form preparation of  Bacillus
licheniformis  DSM 28710 containing a minimum of 3.2 x 10 9  CFU/g of additive
Characterisation of the active substance(s) Viable spores of  Bacillus
licheniformis  DSM 28710  Analytical methods 1. For enumeration (colony count)
in the   feed additive, premixtures, feed materials and compound feed : Spread
plate method in accordance with European standard EN 15784:2021 entitled “
Animal feeding stuffs: Methods of sampling and analysis – Detection and
enumeration of Bacillus spp. used as feed additive ” 2. For identification of
bacterial strain: Pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) Species or category
of animal Laying hens, minor poultry species for laying, poultry species for
breeding and ornamental birds Maximum age Not applicable Content of Bacillus
licheniformis DSM 28710 in CFU/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of
12% Minimum content 1.6 x 10 9  CFU/kg  Maximum content No maximum Other
provisions 1. In the directions for use of the additive and premixtures, the
storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be indicated. 2. Where
Bacillus licheniformis  DSM 28710 is to be used in feed containing
coccidiostats, this feed additive is authorised for use with the following
coccidiostats only, and in accordance with their individual authorisation
criteria: Diclazuril Lasalocid A sodium

Renewal of authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM
BP-2789) (identification number 4b1830) as a feed additive for chickens reared
for laying, turkeys for fattening, turkeys reared for breeding, minor avian
species (excluding laying birds), weaned piglets and weaned minor porcine
species, and its authorisation as a feed additive for chickens for fattening,
suckling   piglets   and suckling minor porcine species

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group ‘gut
flora stabilisers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition, subject
to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789)
Identification number of the additive 4b1830 Authorisation holder Miyarisan
Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd Additive category Zootechnical additives Functional
group Gut flora stabilisers Additive composition Solid form preparation of
Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789) containing a minimum of 5 x 10 8  CFU/g
additive  Characterisation of the active substance(s) Viable spores of
Clostridium butyricum  FERM BP-2789  Analytical methods 1. For enumeration
(colony count)  in the feed additive, premixtures, feed materials and compound
feed : Pour plate method in accordance with international standard BS ISO
15213:2003 entitled “ Microbiology of food and animal feeding stuffs.
Horizontal method for the enumeration of sulphite-reducing bacteria growing
under anaerobic conditions ” 2. For identification of bacterial strain:
Pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) Species or category of animal Turkeys
for fattening; turkeys reared for breeding; chickens for fattening; chickens
reared for laying; minor avian species (excluding laying birds);   piglets
(suckling and weaned) and minor porcine species (suckling and weaned)
Maximum age Not applicable Content of Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789)
in CFU/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12%   Minimum content
Turkeys: 1.25 x 10 8  CFU/kg Chickens, minor avian species, piglets and minor
porcine species: 2.5 x 10 8  CFU/kg Maximum content All species and categories
of animal as provided for above: no maximum Other provisions 1. In the
directions for use of the additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and
stability to heat treatment must be indicated. 2. Where  Clostridium butyricum
(FERM BP-2789) is to be used in feed containing coccidiostats, this feed
additive is authorised for use with the following coccidiostats only, and in
accordance with their individual authorisation criteria: Decoquinate,
Diclazuril,  Lasalocid  A sodium , Maduramicin ammonium, Monensin sodium,
Narasin, Narasin/Nicarbazin (as combined use only), Robenidine
hydrochloride,   Salinomycin sodium, Semduramicin sodium.

Authorisation of a preparation of 6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) (identification
number 4a32) as a feed additive for all poultry species, ornamental birds,
piglets, pigs for fattening, sows and minor porcine species for fattening or
reproduction

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The preparation specified in the table in this schedule, belonging to the
additive category ‘zootechnical additives’ and to the functional group
‘digestibility enhancers’, is authorised as an additive in animal nutrition,
subject to the conditions set out in the table in this schedule.

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive 6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) Identification number
of the additive 4a32 Authorisation holder Huvepharma EOOD Additive category
Zootechnical additives Functional group Digestibility enhancers Additive
composition Preparation of 6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) produced by  fermentation
with    Komagataella phaffii  (DSM 32854) In granular, coated and liquid
forms, minimum activity 5000 FTU/g Characterisation of the active substance(s)
6-phytase (EC 3.1.3.26) produced by  Komagataella phaffii  (DSM 32854)
Analytical methods 1. For quantification of phytase activity in the feed
additive: Colorimetric method based on the enzymatic reaction of phytase on
the phytate in accordance with the VDLUFA Method Book, Volume III, Part 27.1.4
2. For quantification of phytase activity in feed materials and compound feed:
Colorimetric method based on the enzymatic reaction of phytase on the phytate
in accordance with international standard BS EN ISO 30024:2009 entitled “
Animal feeding stuffs. Determination of phytase activity ” 3. For
quantification of phytase activity in premixtures: Colorimetric method based
on the enzymatic reaction of phytase on the phytate in accordance with the
VDLUFA Method Book, Volume III, Part 27.1.3 Species or category of animal All
poultry species; ornamental birds; piglets; pigs for fattening; sows; minor
porcine species for fattening or reproduction Maximum age Not applicable
Content of 6-phytase (units of activity/kg of complete feed with a moisture
content of 12%) Minimum content 250 FTU Maximum content No maximum Other
provisions In the directions for use of the additive and premixtures, the
storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must be indicated.

Authorisation of Decoquinate (Deccox®) (identification number 51756i) as a
feed additive for chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The substance Decoquinate specified in the table in this schedule, belonging
to the additive category ‘coccidiostats and histomonostats’, is authorised as
an additive in animal nutrition, subject to the conditions set out in the
table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Decoquinate (Deccox®) Identification number
of the additive 51756i Authorisation holder Zoetis Belgium SA Additive
category Coccidiostats and Histomonostats Functional group None Additive
composition Decoquinate: 60.0g/kg Refined deodorised soya oil: 28.5g/kg
Colloidal silica: 0.6g/kg Wheat middlings: q.s. 1kg Characterisation of the
active substance(s) Decoquinate: (Ethyl
6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate) Chemical formula: C 24
H 35 NO 5 CAS No: 18507-89-6 Related impurities:
Methyl-6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate:<1.0%
6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylic acid:<0.5%
Diethyl-4-decycloxy-3-ethoxyanilinomethylenemalonate: <0.5% Analytical methods
1. For quantification of Decoquinate in the feed additive, premixtures   ,
feed materials and compound feed : Reversed-Phase High Performance Liquid
Chromatography with fluorescence detection (RP-HPLC-FL) in accordance with
European standard EN 16162:2012 entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs –
Determination of decoquinate by HPLC with fluorescence detection ” 2. For
quantification of Decoquinate in tissues: Reversed-Phase High Performance
Liquid Chromatography coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer   (RP-
HPLC-MS/MS   Species or category of animal Chickens for fattening Maximum age
Not applicable Content of Decoquinate (Deccox ® ) in mg/kg of complete feed
with a moisture content of 12%   Minimum content 30 mg/kg Maximum content 40
mg/kg Other provisions 1. In the directions for use of the  feed   additive
and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat treatment must
be indicated. 2. The  feed   additive must be incorporated in compound feed in
the form of a premixture. 3. Decoquinate must not be mixed with other
coccidiostats. 4. Decoquinate must not be used in feed containing bentonite.
5. Post-market monitoring programmes must be carried out by the holder of
authorisation for resistance to bacteria and  Eimeria spp  and submitted to
the Scottish Ministers by the end of 23 November 2031.

Authorisation of Decoquinate (Avi-Deccox® 60G) (identification number 51756ii)
as a feed additive for chickens for fattening

Regulation 3(2)

##### Authorisation

1

The substance Decoquinate specified in the table in this schedule, belonging
to the additive category ‘coccidiostats and histomonostats’ is authorised as
an additive in animal nutrition, subject to the conditions set out in the
table in this schedule .

Table Column 1 Column 2 Additive Decoquinate (Avi-Deccox® 60G) Identification
number of the additive 51756ii Authorisation holder Zoetis Belgium SA Additive
category Coccidiostats and Histomonostats Functional group None Additive
composition Decoquinate: 60.0 g/kg Colloidal silica: 0.6 g/kg Silicon dioxide:
4.0 g/kg Carboxymethylcellulose sodium: 30.0 g/kg Calcium sulphate dihydrate:
q.s. ad 1,000 g Characterisation of the active substance(s) Decoquinate:
(Ethyl 6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate) Chemical
Formula: C 24 H 35 NO 5   CAS No: 18507-89-6   Related impurities:
Methyl-6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylate:<1.0%
6-decycloxy-7-ethoxy-4-hydroxyquinoline-3-carboxylic acid: <0.5%
Diethyl-4-decycloxy-3-ethoxyanilinomethylenemalonate:<0.5% Analytical methods
1. For the quantification of Decoquinate in the feed additive, premixtures   ,
feed materials and compound feed  : Reversed-Phase High Performance Liquid
Chromatography with fluorescence detection (RP-HPLC-FL) in accordance with
European standard EN 16162:2012 entitled “ Animal feeding stuffs –
Determination of decoquinate by HPLC with fluorescence detection ” 2. For
quantification of Decoquinate in tissues: Reversed-Phase High Performance
Liquid Chromatography coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer (RP-
HPLC-MS/MS) or any other analytical method complying with the requirements set
by  ... EU  Decision 2002/657/EC Species or category of animal Chickens for
fattening Maximum age Not applicable Content of Decoquinate (Avi-Deccox®) in
mg/kg of complete feed with a moisture content of 12% Minimum content 30 mg/kg
Maximum content 40 mg/kg Other provisions 1. In the directions for use of the
feed   additive and premixtures, the storage conditions and stability to heat
treatment must be indicated. 2. The  feed   additive must be incorporated in
compound feed in the form of a premixture. 3. Decoquinate must not be mixed
with other coccidiostats. 4. Decoquinate must not be used in feed containing
bentonite. 5. Post-market monitoring programmes must be carried out by the
holder of the authorisation for resistance to bacteria and  Eimeria spp  and
submitted to the Scottish Ministers by the end of 23 November 2031.

Revocation of   assimilated direct   EU legislation

Regulation 11

1

Commission Regulation (EC) No. 1289/2004  concerning the authorisation for 10
years of the additive Deccox® in feedingstuffs, belonging to the group of
coccidiostats and other medicinal substances .

2

Commission Regulation (EC) No. 903/2009  concerning the authorisation of the
preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as a feed additive for
chickens for fattening (holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co.
Ltd, represented by Huvepharma NV Belgium) .

3

Commission Regulation (EU) No. 8/2010  concerning the authorisation of the
serine protease produced by  Bacillus licheniformis  (DSM 19670) as a feed
additive for chickens for fattening (holder of authorisation DSM Nutritional
Products Ltd, represented by DSM Nutritional Products Sp.Z.o.o) .

4

Commission Regulation (EU) No. 107/2010  concerning the authorisation of
Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 as a feed additive for chickens for fattening
(holder of authorisation Kemin Europa NV) .

5

Commission Regulation (EU) No. 883/2010  concerning the authorisation of a new
use of  Saccharomyces cerevisiae  NCYC Sc 47 as a feed additive for calves for
rearing (holder of the authorisation Société industrielle Lesaffre) .

6

Commission Regulation (EU) No. 168/2011  amending Regulation (EU) No. 107/2010
as regards the use of the feed additive  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 in
feed containing maduramycin ammonium, monensin sodium, narasin, or robenidine
hydrochloride .

7

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 373/2011 concerning the
authorisation of the preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  FERM-BP 2789 as a
feed additive for minor avian species except laying birds, weaned piglets and
minor porcine species (weaned) and amending Regulation  (EC) No. 903/2009
(holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd, represented by
Huvepharma NV Belgium) .

8

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 515/2011 concerning the
authorisation of vitamin B 6  as a feed additive for all animal species .

9

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 885/2011 concerning the
authorisation of  Bacillus subtilis  (ATCC PTA-6737) as a feed additive for
chickens reared for laying, ducks for fattening, quails, pheasants,
partridges, guinea fowl, pigeons, geese for fattening and ostriches (holder of
the authorisation Kemin Europa N.V.) .

10

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 357/2013 amending Regulation  (EC)
No. 903/2009  and Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 373/2011 as regards the
minimum content of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as
a feed additive for chickens for fattening and minor avian species (excluding
laying birds) (holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd
represented by Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Europe S.L.U.) .

11

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 374/2013 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as a
feed additive for chickens reared for laying (holder of authorisation
Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd represented by Huvepharma NV Belgium) .

12

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 291/2014 amending Regulation  (EC)
No. 1289/2004  as regards the withdrawal time and maximum residues limits of
the feed additive decoquinate .

13

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 1108/2014 concerning the
authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum  (FERM-BP 2789) as a
feed additive for turkeys for fattening and turkeys reared for breeding
(holder of authorisation Miyarisan Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd represented by
Huvepharma NV Belgium) .

14

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No. 2017/1126 amending Regulation
(EC) No. 903/2009  and Implementing Regulations (EU) No. 373/2011, (EU) No.
374/2013 and (EU) No. 1108/2014 as regards the name of the EU representative
of the holder of the authorisation of a preparation of  Clostridium butyricum
(FERM-BP 2789) .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision as regards the authorisation of feed
additives under Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003  of the European Parliament and of
the Council on additives for use in animal nutrition (“Regulation  (EC)
1831/2003 ”).

  Regulation 3 and schedules 1 to 11 prescribe the authorisation of 11 feed
additives, in accordance with article 9(1) of Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003 .

  Schedule 1 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of Manganese chelate of
lysine and glutamic acid (identification number 3b509).

  Schedule 2 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of  Lactobacillus
buchneri  DSM 29026 (identification number 1k20759).

  Schedule 3 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of Serine protease (EC
3.4.21. -1 ) produced by  Bacillus licheniformis  (DSM 19670) (identification
number 4a13).

  Schedule 4 is a renewal of the authorisation of Pyridoxine hydrochloride
(vitamin B 6 ) (identification number 3a831).

  Schedule 5 is a renewal of the authorisation of a preparation of
Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407 (ACTISAF® Sc47) (identification number
4b1702). The name of the bacterial strain is changed from “ Saccharomyces
cerevisiae  NCYC Sc 47” to “ Saccharomyces cerevisiae  CNCM I-4407”.

  Schedule 6 is a renewal of the authorisation of a preparation of  Bacillus
velezensis  (ATCC PTA-6737) (identification number 4b1823). The authorisation
has been modified as follows:-         the bacterial strain name from “
Bacillus subtilis”  to “ Bacillus velezensis” ,           the minimum content
of the feed additive in the preparation is increased from 1x10 10  to 8x10 10
colony forming units per gram (CFU/g).

  Schedule 7 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of  Bacillus
licheniformis  DSM 28710 (identification number 4b1828).

  Schedule 8 is a renewal of the authorisations of a preparation of
Clostridium butyricum  (FERM BP-2789) (identification number 4b1830), and
authorises it for a new use to be used in feed for chickens for fattening,
suckling piglets and minor porcine species (suckling).

  Schedule 9 is a new authorisation, for a preparation of 6-phytase produced
by  Komagataella phaffii  DSM 32854 (identification number 4a32).

  Schedule 10 authorises a new formulation of Decoquinate (Deccox®)
(identification number E756) as Decoquinate (Deccox®) (identification number
51756i) following a re-evaluation requested by the holder.

  Schedule 11 authorises a modified form of Decoquinate (Deccox®)
(identification number E756) as Decoquinate (Avi-Deccox® 60G) (identification
number 51756ii). This feed additive differs from Decoquinate (Deccox®) in
physical form and in the dilutant used being calcium sulphate dehydrate.

  The authorisations are valid for a period of 10 years, in accordance with
Article 9(7) of Regulation  (EC) 1831/2003 . This is subject to Article 14(4)
of that Regulation, which provides for an extension of the authorisation
period in certain circumstances following the submission of an application for
renewal. Relevant provision is made by regulation 3(3) of these Regulations.

  Regulations 4 to 7 modify 4 retained EU Regulations that authorise the feed
additive  Bacillus subtilis  ATCC PTA-6737 for differing poultry and pig sub-
groups. The name of the feed additive is updated from “  Bacillus subtilis”
to “ Bacillus velezensis” . Regulation 9(1) is a transitional provision which
allows products labelled using the name “ Bacillus subtilis”  to continue to
be marketed and used under the relevant authorisations despite the name
change.

  Regulations 8, 9(2) to (5) and 10 make transitional provision to enable the
continued production and labelling of products, for limited time periods,
under the conditions of previous authorisations where authorisations are
renewed under schedules 5, 6 and 10 respectively.

  Regulation 11 and schedule 12 revoke retained direct EU legislation that
contains previous authorisations for the feed additives now authorised by
schedules 3, 4, 5, 6, 8 and 10.

  A business and regulatory impact assessment has not been produced for this
instrument as no significant impact on the private or voluntary sector is
foreseen.

