Title: The Motor Vehicles (Exchangeable Licences) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order designates countries and territories under Article 19D(2)(b), (2A) and (2B) of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 as making satisfactory provision for the grant of certain classes of driving licences. This enables those driving licences to be exchanged for a corresponding Northern Ireland licence.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/239

## The Motor Vehicles (Exchangeable Licences) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Road Traffic And Vehicles

  Made   3rd October 2022

  Coming into operation   31st October 2022

      The Department for Infrastructure , being satisfied that satisfactory
provision is made by the laws of the territories specified in this Order as
respects the granting of driving licences of the description specified in this
Order, makes the following Order in exercise of the powers conferred by
Articles 19D(2)(b), (2A), (2B) and 218 of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland)
Order 1981  and now vested in it .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Motor Vehicles (Exchangeable Licences) Order
(Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 31st October 2022.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the Order ” means the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981; “ driving
test ” means a test corresponding to the practical test of driving skills and
behaviour prescribed under Article 5 of the Order  as part of the test of
competence to drive; “Table 1”, “Table 2”, and “Table 3” mean the Tables
bearing those numbers in Schedule 1; “ vehicles with automatic transmission ”
means vehicles in which either— the driver is not provided with any means
whereby he may vary the gear ratio between the engine and the road wheels
independently of the accelerator and the brakes; or the driver is provided
with such means but they do not include a clutch pedal or lever which he may
operate manually, and accordingly, a vehicle with manual transmission is any
other type of vehicle.

2.2

A reference to a licensing category or licensing sub-category is a reference
to the category or sub-category, as the case may be, identified by the same
letter or combination of letters or the same letter and number in the Motor
Vehicles (Driving Licences) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 .

### Designation of countries and territories

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (3), (4) and (5), the countries and territories
specified in Table 1 are designated under Article 19D(2)(b) of the Order as
respects licences of the descriptions specified in paragraph (2).

3.2

The licences referred to in paragraph (1) are licences which—

3.2.a

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle included in licensing category AM, A, B, B+E, F, K, or Q, and sub-
categories A1 or A2; and

3.2.b

have been granted by the licensing authority of a country or territory
specified in Table 1—

3.2.b.i

to a person who has passed a driving test in that country or territory; or

3.2.b.ii

by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

3.2.b.ii.aa

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

3.2.b.ii.bb

any other country or territory specified in Table 1;

3.2.b.ii.cc

a country or territory specified in Table 2 or Table 3; or

3.2.b.ii.dd

a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory.

3.3

A licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)(b)(ii), being a licence
granted by way of exchange for a licence granted to a person who has passed a
driving test in a country or territory specified in Table 2, shall not be
exchangeable in so far as it authorises the driving of a class of vehicle
corresponding to a class of vehicle included in licensing category A or sub-
category A2, notwithstanding that the licence authorises the driving in the
country or territory specified in Table 1 of a class of vehicle corresponding
to that licensing category.

3.4

A licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)(b)(ii), being a licence
granted by way of exchange for a licence granted to a person who has passed a
driving test in a country or territory specified in Table 3, shall not be
exchangeable in so far as it authorises the driving of a class of vehicle
corresponding to a class of vehicle included in licensing category AM or A or
sub-category A1 or A2, notwithstanding that the licence authorises the driving
in the country or territory specified in Table 1 or Table 2 of a class of
vehicle corresponding to that licensing category.

3.5

Notwithstanding that a licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)
authorises the driving of vehicles with manual transmission, that licence
shall be exchangeable only to the extent that it authorises the driving of
vehicles with automatic transmission if it was granted to a person who has
passed a driving test in a vehicle with automatic transmission.

4

4.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the countries and territories specified in Table 2
are designated under Article 19D(2)(b) of the Order as respects licences of
the descriptions specified in paragraph (2).

4.2

The licences referred to in paragraph (1) are licences which—

4.2.a

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle included in licensing category AM, B, B+E, F, K or Q and sub-category
A1, and which have been granted by the licensing authority of a country or
territory specified in Table 2—

4.2.a.i

to a person who has passed a driving test in that country or territory; or

4.2.a.ii

by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

4.2.a.ii.aa

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

4.2.a.ii.bb

any other country or territory specified in Table 2;

4.2.a.ii.cc

a country or territory specified in Table 1; or

4.2.a.ii.dd

a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory; or

4.2.b

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle included in licensing category AM or sub-category A1, and which have
been granted by the licensing authority of a country or territory specified in
Table 3 by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

4.2.b.i

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

4.2.b.ii

a country or territory specified in Table 1 or 2; or

4.2.b.iii

a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory.

4.3

Notwithstanding that a licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)
authorises the driving of vehicles with manual transmission, that licence
shall be exchangeable only to the extent that it authorises the driving of
vehicles with automatic transmission if it was granted to a person who has
passed a driving test in a vehicle with automatic transmission.

5

5.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the countries and territories specified in Table 3
are designated under Article 19D(2)(b) of the Order as respects licences of
the descriptions specified in paragraph (2).

5.2

The licences referred to in paragraph (1) are licences which—

5.2.a

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle included in licensing category B, B+E, F, K, or Q, and which have been
granted by the licensing authority of a country or territory specified in
Table 3—

5.2.a.i

to a person who has passed a driving test in that country or territory; or

5.2.a.ii

by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

5.2.a.ii.aa

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

5.2.a.ii.bb

any other country or territory specified in Table 3;

5.2.a.ii.cc

a country or territory specified in Table 1 or 2; or

5.2.a.ii.dd

in a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory;

5.2.b

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle in licensing category AM or A or sub-category A1 or A2, and which have
been granted by the licensing authority of a country or territory specified in
Table 3 by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

5.2.b.i

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

5.2.b.ii

a country or territory specified in Table 1; or

5.2.b.iii

a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory; or

5.2.c

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle in licensing category AM or sub-category A1, and which have been
granted by the licensing authority of a country or territory specified in
Table 3 by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

5.2.c.i

an EEA State or the United Kingdom;

5.2.c.ii

a country or territory specified in Table 2; or

5.2.c.iii

a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,

to a person who has passed a driving test in any such State, country or
territory.

5.3

Notwithstanding that a licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)
authorises the driving of vehicles with manual transmission, that licence
shall be exchangeable only to the extent that it authorises the driving of
vehicles with automatic transmission if it was granted to a person who has
passed a driving test in a vehicle with automatic transmission.

6

6.1

Subject to paragraph (3), Switzerland is designated under Article 19D(2)(b) of
the Order as respects licences of the descriptions specified in paragraph (2).

6.2

The licences referred to in paragraph (1) are licences which—

6.2.a

authorise the driving of a class of vehicle corresponding to a class of
vehicle included in licensing category C, C+E, D or D+E, whether or not they
authorise the driving of any other class of vehicle; and

6.2.b

have been granted by the licensing authority of Switzerland—

6.2.b.i

to a person who has passed a driving test in Switzerland in respect of each
class of vehicle authorised by that person’s licence corresponding to a class
included in one or more licensing categories or sub-categories referred to in
paragraph (2)(a); or

6.2.b.ii

by way of exchange for a licence granted in—

6.2.b.ii.aa

Northern Ireland to a person who has passed a driving test in Northern Ireland
in respect of each licensing category or sub-category referred to in paragraph
(2)(a) authorised by that licence; or

6.2.b.ii.bb

Great Britain, Gibraltar, an EEA State or a country or territory specified in
Schedule 2 to a person who has passed a driving test in Great Britain,
Gibraltar or any such State, country or territory, as the case may be, in
respect of each class of vehicle authorised by that licence corresponding to a
class included in one or more of the licensing categories or sub-categories
referred to in paragraph (2)(a).

6.3

Notwithstanding that a licence of a description specified in paragraph (2)
authorises the driving of vehicles with manual transmission that licence shall
be exchangeable only to the extent that it authorises the driving of vehicles
with automatic transmission if it was granted to a person who has passed a
driving test in a vehicle with automatic transmission.

### Revocation

7

The Motor Vehicles (Exchangeable Licences) Order (Northern Ireland) 2009  is
revoked.

Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Infrastructure on 3rd
October 2022 Chris Hughes A senior officer of the Department for
Infrastructure

  Designation of countries and territories

Articles 3, 4 and 5

  Table 1       Country or territory   Andorra Australia Barbados British
Virgin Islands The provinces and territories of Canada Falkland Islands Hong
Kong Japan New Zealand Principality of Monaco Singapore South Africa
Switzerland Zimbabwe

  Table 2       Country or territory   The Cayman Islands The United Arab
Emirates

  Table 3       Country or territory   The Faroe Islands The Republic of Korea
The Republic of North Macedonia Taiwan Ukraine

  Other countries and territories from where a licence may have been exchanged

Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6

  Guernsey

  Isle of Man

  Jersey

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order designates countries and territories under Article 19D(2)(b),
(2A) and (2B) of the Road Traffic (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 as making
satisfactory provision for the grant of certain classes of driving licences.
This enables those driving licences to be exchanged for a corresponding
Northern Ireland licence.

  This Order revokes and replaces the Motor Vehicles (Exchangeable Licences)
Order (Northern Ireland) 2009 ( S.R. 2009 No. 302 ).

  The designations in respect of the countries and territories specified in
Table 1 (with the exception of Andorra) and of the Republic of Korea and of
the Faroe Islands in Table 3 replace earlier designations in order to reflect
changes to vehicle categories and sub-categories that took effect from 19 th
January 2013. Andorra is now designated to the same extent as those countries
and territories specified in Table 1.

  Article 4 and Table 2 designate the Cayman Islands and the United Arab
Emirates in respect of licences which authorise the driving of cars, small
goods vehicles, vehicle combinations up to 3500kg maximum authorised mass,
smaller motorcycles, mopeds, tractors, pedestrian controlled vehicles and
mowing machines. Those licences can be exchanged if the driving test was
passed in any of those newly designated countries or territories or was
granted by them in exchange for a licence granted in an EEA State, the United
Kingdom, any other country or territory specified in Table 2, a country or
territory specified in Table 1 or in a country or territory specified in
Schedule 2, where the driving test was passed in that country, territory or
State.

  The Cayman Islands and the United Arab Emirates are also designated in
respect of licences which authorise the driving of larger mopeds and smaller
motorcycles which were granted in a country or territory specified in Table 3
by way of exchange for a licence granted in an EEA State, the United Kingdom,
a country or territory specified in Table 1 or Table 2 or in a country or
territory specified in Schedule 2, where the driving test for that category of
vehicle was passed in that country, territory or State.

  Article 5 and Table 3 designate the Republic of North Macedonia, Taiwan and
Ukraine in respect of licences which authorise the driving of cars, small
goods vehicles, vehicle combinations up to 3500kg maximum authorised mass,
smaller mopeds, tractors, pedestrian controlled vehicles and mowing machines.
Those licences can be exchanged if the driving test was passed in one of those
newly designated countries or territories or was granted by them in exchange
for a licence granted in an EEA State, the United Kingdom, any other country
or territory specified in Table 3, a country or territory specified in Table 1
or Table 2 or in a country or territory specified in Schedule 2, where the
driving test was passed in that country, territory or State.

  The Republic of North Macedonia, Taiwan and Ukraine are also designated in
respect of licences which authorise the driving of larger mopeds and
motorcycles which were granted in a country or territory specified in Table 3
by way of exchange for a licence granted in an EEA State, the United Kingdom,
a country or territory specified in Table 1 or in a country or territory
specified in Schedule 2, where the driving test for that category of vehicle
was passed in that country, territory or State.

  The Republic of North Macedonia, Taiwan and Ukraine are also designated in
respect of licences which authorise the driving of larger mopeds and smaller
motorcycles which were granted in a country or territory specified in Table 3
by way of exchange for a licence granted in an EEA State, the United Kingdom,
a country or territory specified in Table 2 or in a country or territory
specified in Schedule 2, where the driving test for that category of vehicle
was passed in that country, territory or State.

  Article 6 designates Switzerland in respect of licences authorising the
driving of large goods vehicles and large buses (with or without a trailer).
Those licences can be exchanged if the driving test was passed in Switzerland
or the licence was granted in exchange for a licence granted in an EEA State,
Great Britain, Gibraltar or in a country or territory specified in Schedule 2,
where the driving test was passed in that country, territory or State.

  In the case of all of the above designations if the licence was granted to a
person who has passed a driving test in a vehicle with automatic transmission
the licence shall only be exchangeable to the extent that it authorises the
driving of vehicles with automatic transmission.

  An Explanatory Memorandum has been produced and is available from Safe and
Accessible Travel Division, Department for Infrastructure, Clarence Court,
10-18 Adelaide Street, Town Parks, Belfast BT2 8GB or online alongside this
Statutory Rule at   http//www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr

