Title: The Prohibition of Cross-Examination in Person (Fees of Court-Appointed Qualified Legal Representatives) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-08-21
Description: Sections 65 and 66 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021 (c. 17) introduce new Part 4A into the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 and new Part 7A into the Courts Act 2003, respectively. Those provisions operate in family and civil proceedings to prohibit cross-examination in person between a party and a witness in defined circumstances, including where there is evidence of domestic abuse between them.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/567

## The Prohibition of Cross-Examination in Person (Fees of Court-Appointed Qualified Legal Representatives) Regulations 2022

Civil Proceedings, England And Wales Family Proceedings, England And Wales
Senior Courts Of England And Wales County Court, England And Wales Family
Court, England And Wales

Made 18th May 2022

Laid before Parliament 23rd May 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1(2)

The Lord Chancellor, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 31X of
the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984  and section 85L of the Courts
Act 2003 , makes the following Regulations:

### Citation, commencement, interpretation and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Prohibition of Cross-Examination in
Person (Fees of Court-Appointed Qualified Legal Representatives) Regulations
2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the day on which and immediately after
sections 65 and 66 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021  come into force.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ 1984 Act ” means the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984; “ 1989 Act
” means the Children Act 1989 ; “ 2003 Act ” means the Courts Act 2003; “ 2012
Act ” means the Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 ; “
advocacy services ” means cross-examination carried out by a qualified legal
representative pursuant to appointment under section 31W(6) of the 1984 Act
or section 85K(6) of the 2003 Act , and fees and rates for advocacy services
include remuneration for preparatory work, attendances at preliminary hearings
and cross-examination hearings, and   time spent  travelling and waiting in
relation to those services; “ authorised ” means authorised by the President
of the Family Division or the Lord Chief Justice to conduct particular
business, under powers granted by rules made under section 31D of the 1984 Act
; “ cancelled hearing ” means a preliminary hearing, or a cross-examination
hearing, which was cancelled at any time prior to the scheduled time and date;
“ completed hearing ” means a preliminary hearing, or a cross-examination
hearing, which was held and completed;   “ costs ” means travelling expenses,
overnight accommodation costs, overnight subsistence allowance and any other
items of expenditure properly incurred by the qualified legal representative
in connection with their appointment by the court under the 1984 Act or 2003
Act.   “ cross-examination hearing ” means a hearing involving cross-
examination of a witness by the qualified legal representative;   “ fees ”
means the sums payable for advocacy services, calculated in accordance with
Parts 1 to 3 of the Schedule to these Regulations.   “ judge of circuit judge
level ” means— a judge appointed under section 16 of the Courts Act 1971 ; a
circuit judge who is authorised, where applicable; a Recorder who is
authorised, where applicable; or any other judge of the family court
authorised to sit as a judge of circuit judge level in the family court. “
judge of district judge level ” means— a judge appointed under section 6 of
the County Courts Act 1984 ; the Senior District Judge of the Family Division;
a district judge of the Principal Registry of the Family Division; a person
appointed to act as deputy for the person holding office referred to in sub-
paragraph (c) or to act as a temporary additional officer for any such office;
a district judge who is authorised, where applicable; a deputy district judge
appointed under section 102 of the Senior Courts Act 1981  or section 8 of the
County Courts Act 1984  who is authorised, where applicable; an authorised
District Judge (Magistrates’ Courts); or any other judge of the family court
authorised to sit as judge of district judge level in the family court. “
judge of High Court judge level ” means— a deputy judge of the High Court; a
puisne judge of the High Court; a person who has been a judge of the Court of
Appeal or a puisne judge of the High Court who may act as a judge of the
family court by virtue of section 9 of the Senior Courts Act 1981; the Senior
Presiding Judge; the Senior President of Tribunals; the Chancellor of the High
Court; an ordinary judge of the Court of Appeal (including the vice-president,
if any, of either division of that court); the President of the Queen’s Bench
Division; the vice-president of the Queen’s Bench Division; the President of
the Family Division; the Master of the Rolls; or the Lord Chief Justice. “
justices’ legal adviser ” means a person authorised by the Lord Chancellor to
exercise functions under section 28(1) of the 2003 Act ; “ lay justice ” means
an authorised justice of the peace who is not a District Judge (Magistrates’
Courts); “ preliminary hearing ” means a case management hearing, or other
hearing, not involving cross-examination by the qualified legal
representative; “ private law (children) case ” means family proceedings
under— the enactments described in paragraph 10 (unlawful removal of children)
or 13 (protection of children and family matters) of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to
the 2012 Act ; Part 1 or 3 of the Family Law Act 1986 , to the extent the
matter relates to a child; Part 1 or 2 of the 1989 Act, other than section 15
of, and Schedule 1 to, that Act; or section 51A of the Adoption and Children
Act 2002 ; “ private law (domestic abuse) case ” means family proceedings for
the protection of a person in relation to another with whom they are
associated (within the meaning of section 62 of the Family Law Act 1996 ),
including those under— Part 4 or 4A of the Family Law Act 1996 ; Part 1 of
Schedule 2 to the Female Genital Mutilation Act 2003 ; or Part 3 of the
Domestic Abuse Act 2021; “ private law (finance and other) case ” means any
family proceedings which are not a private law (children) case or a private
law (domestic abuse) case; “ public law (other) case ” means— proceedings
under the enactments described in paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the
2012 Act  (care, supervision and protection of children), to the extent the
matter is not a public law (section 31 care proceedings) case; proceedings
relating to the inherent jurisdiction of the High Court to the extent that the
matter relates to a child; or proceedings under the enactments described in
paragraphs 17 (transitional EU arrangements and international agreements
concerning children) or 18 (transitional EU arrangements and international
agreements concerning maintenance) of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the 2012 Act ; “
public law (section 31 care proceedings) case ” means— proceedings or
potential proceedings under section 31 of the 1989 Act; or proceedings under
the enactments described in paragraph 1 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the 2012
Act where— the proceedings are being heard with those under section 31 of the
1989 Act; applications under those enactments are made within proceedings
under section 31 of the 1989 Act; or orders under those enactments are being
sought as an alternative to an order under section 31 of the 1989 Act;   “
terminated appointment ” means an appointment of a qualified legal
representative which was terminated by the court before a hearing.

1.4

These Regulations apply to the payment out of central funds of sums in respect
of   fees and costs payable to a qualified legal representative in connection
with their appointment by the court under the 1984 Act or 2003 Act.

1.5

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

### Remuneration

2

2.1

The Lord Chancellor must pay fees to a qualified legal representative in
accordance with these Regulations.

2.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the Lord Chancellor must pay such costs to
a qualified legal representative as appear to the Lord Chancellor to have been
actually and properly incurred.

2.3

The costs payable under paragraph (2) are to be calculated in accordance with
the provisions of Part 4 of the Schedule to these Regulations.

2.4

The Lord Chancellor may not pay costs in excess of the maximum cap amounts
specified for the corresponding category of cost.

### Bolt-on fee

3

3.1

The Lord Chancellor must pay a bolt-on fee at the rate set out in Table 5 in
the Schedule as applicable where the qualified legal representative’s bundle
for a cross-examination hearing exceeds 350 pages.

3.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the qualified legal representative’s
bundle—

3.2.a

may only include—

3.2.a.i

those documents relevant to the case which have been served by the parties to
the proceedings to which the hearing relates; and

3.2.a.ii

in family proceedings, notes of contact visits if included in the bundle; and

3.2.b

must include a paginated index agreed by the parties to those proceedings.

3.3

In this regulation “ bundle ” means the bundle of documents prepared for the
hearing in accordance with the provisions of the Civil Procedure Rules 1998
or Family Procedure Rules 2010 , as appropriate.

### Value Added Tax

4

All fees set out in the Schedule to these Regulations are exclusive of value
added tax.

### Cancelled hearings

5

5.1

A fee in respect of a cancelled hearing may be claimed where—

5.1.a

a preliminary hearing or a cross-examination hearing is listed;

5.1.b

the qualified legal representative subsequently undertakes at least 30 minutes
of preparatory work; and

5.1.c

the hearing is cancelled.

5.2

A cancelled hearing fee in respect of a preliminary hearing is—

5.2.a

in family proceedings, a Hearing Unit 1 fee as described in Table 1 in the
Schedule; or

5.2.b

in civil proceedings, a Hearing Unit 1 fee as described in Table 3 in the
Schedule.

5.3

A cancelled hearing fee in respect of a cross-examination hearing is—

5.3.a

in family proceedings, half of a single day fee as described in Table 2 in the
Schedule; or

5.3.b

in civil proceedings, half of a single day fee as described in Table 4 in the
Schedule.

5.4

Costs in respect of a cancelled hearing may be claimed where—

5.4.a

a preliminary hearing or a cross-examination hearing is listed;

5.4.b

the qualified legal representative has incurred costs in anticipation of
attending the hearing;

5.4.c

the hearing is cancelled; and

5.4.d

the qualified legal representative has complied with paragraph (5) but is
unable to recover all of the costs incurred.

5.5

The qualified legal representative must attempt to recover the costs incurred
within 24 hours of being notified of the hearing cancellation.

### Terminated appointments

5A

5A.1

A fee in respect of a terminated appointment may be claimed where—

5A.1.a

a preliminary hearing or a cross-examination hearing is listed;

5A.1.b

the qualified legal representative subsequently undertakes at least 30 minutes
of preparatory work; and

5A.1.c

the court terminates the appointment before the hearing.

5A.2

A terminated appointment fee in respect of a preliminary hearing is—

5A.2.a

in family proceedings, a Hearing Unit 1 fee as described in Table 1 in the
Schedule or;

5A.2.b

in civil proceedings, a Hearing Unit 1 fee as described in Table 3 in the
Schedule.

5A.3

A terminated appointment fee in respect of a cross-examination hearing is—

5A.3.a

in family proceedings, half of a single day fee as described in Table 2 in the
Schedule; or

5A.3.b

in civil proceedings, half of a single day fee as described in Table 4 in the
Schedule.

5A.4

Costs in respect of a terminated appointment may be claimed where—

5A.4.a

a preliminary hearing or a cross-examination hearing is listed;

5A.4.b

the qualified legal representative has incurred costs in anticipation of
attending the hearing;

5A.4.c

the court terminates the appointment of the qualified legal representative
before the hearing; and

5A.4.d

the qualified legal representative has complied with paragraph (5) but is
unable to recover all of the costs incurred.

5A.5

The qualified legal representative must attempt to recover the costs incurred
within 24 hours of being notified of the termination of the appointment.

### Claim for payment of fees 

6

6.1

A qualified legal representative must make a claim for payment of fees in
accordance with these Regulations.

6.2

A qualified legal representative may make a claim in respect of each completed
hearing   , cancelled hearing or terminated appointment .

6.3

A claim for payment must be submitted within 3 months of the date of the
completed hearing   , cancelled hearing or terminated appointment .

6.4

A claim must—

6.4.a

be submitted on a form specified by the Lord Chancellor;

6.4.b

summarise the items of work done by the qualified legal representative;

6.4.c

state, where appropriate, the dates on which items of work were done, the time
taken and the sums claimed;  ...

6.4.ca

specify any costs claimed, the circumstances in which they were incurred and
the amounts claimed in respect of them; and

6.4.d

include all particulars, information or documents relied on as evidence of
entitlement to the   fees and costs   claimed.

6.5

The qualified legal representative must specify any special circumstances
which they consider should be drawn to the attention of the Lord Chancellor.

### Payment of fees 

7

7.1

Upon receipt of a claim for payment, the Lord Chancellor must—

7.1.a

accept the claim; or

7.1.b

reject the claim.

7.2

Where a claim is accepted, the Lord Chancellor must authorise payment
accordingly.

7.3

Where a claim is rejected, the Lord Chancellor must notify the qualified legal
representative of—

7.3.a

the reasons for rejection; and

7.3.b

the ability to resubmit a claim.

7.4

A qualified legal representative may resubmit the claim at any point before
the expiry of the 3-month period referred to in regulation 6(3).

7.5

If a claim is resubmitted, the qualified legal representative must supply with
that claim any further particulars, information or documents that the Lord
Chancellor requires.

James Cartlidge Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Ministry of Justice
18th May 2022

Fees

Regulation 2, 3 and 5

##### Fees payable in family proceedings

###### Fixed fees

1

Tables 1 and 2 set out the fixed fees payable in relation to the category of
case specified in the first column of the table, by reference to the level of
judge conducting the hearing as specified in the remaining columns of the
table.

Table 1 Preliminary hearing fees in family proceedings Paid for all
preliminary hearings Level of judge Case type Justices’ legal adviser or lay
justice Judge of circuit or district judge level Judge of High Court judge
level (1) Hearing Unit 1 (2) Hearing Unit 2 Private law (children) HU1  (under
one hour) £68.96 £75.83 £91.04 HU2  (1 to 2.5 hours) £172.41 £189.64 £227.56
Private law (domestic abuse) HU1 (under one hour) £89.65 £89.65 £89.65 HU2 (1
to 2.5 hours) £224.14 £224.14 £224.14 Private law (finance and other) HU1
(under one hour) £69.50 £69.50 £83.41 HU2 (1 to 2.5 hours) £173.75 £173.75
£208.49 Public law (section 31 care proceedings) HU1 (under one hour) £95.39
£104.94 £125.93 HU2 (1 to 2.5 hours) £238.49 £262.31 £314.78 Public law (other
HU1 (under one hour) £83.41 £91.73 £110.09 HU2 (1 to 2.5 hours) £208.55
£229.38 £275.22

Table 2 Fees for attendance at cross-examination hearing in family proceedings
Paid per day at the cross-examination hearing

Day 1 Further days Level of judge Level of judge Case type Justices’ legal
adviser or lay justice Judge of circuit or district judge level Judge of High
Court judge level Justices’ legal adviser or lay justice Judge of circuit or
district judge level Judge of High Court judge level Private law (children)
£545.93 £600.50 £720.60 £436.74 £480.40 £576.48 hPrivate law (domestic abuse)
£496.61 £496.61 £496.61 £397.29 £397.29 £397.29 Private law (finance and
other) £610.09 £610.09 £732.11 £488.07 £488.07 £585.68 Public law (section 31
care proceedings) £696.09 £765.71 £918.84 £556.88 £612.57 £735.08 Public law
(other) £638.43 £702.28 £842.74 £510.74 £561.83 £674.19

##### Fees payable in civil proceedings

###### Fixed fees

2

Tables 3 and 4 set out the fixed fees payable in relation to the category of
case specified in the first column of the table, by reference to the level of
judge conducting the hearing as specified in the remaining columns of the
table.

Table 3 Preliminary hearing fees in civil proceedings Paid for all preliminary
hearings Level of judge Case type Justices’ legal adviser or lay justice Judge
of circuit or district judge level Judge of High Court judge level Civil
proceedings HU1 (under one hour) N/A £69.50 £83.41 HU2 (1 to 2.5 hours) N/A
£173.75 £208.49

Table 4 Fees for attendance at cross-examination hearing in civil proceedings
Paid per day at the cross-examination hearing Day 1 Further days Level of
judge Level of judge Case type Justices’ legal adviser or lay justice Judge of
circuit or district judge level Judge of High Court judge level Justices’
legal adviser or lay justice Judge of circuit or district judge level Judge of
High Court judge level Civil proceedings N/A £610.09 £732.11 N/A £488.07
£585.68

##### Bolt-on fee payable in family and civil proceedings

Table 5 Advocates’ bundle bolt-on Additional fee to be paid once per cross-
examination hearing Number of bundle pages 351-700 701-1,400 over 1,400
£175.23 £263.34 £350.46

##### Costs payable in civil and family proceedings

###### General provision and applicable maximum rates

3

Costs are only payable where the qualified legal representative can provide
evidence of the amounts incurred.

4

Subject to paragraphs 5 to 11, the maximum amounts that the Lord Chancellor
may pay in respect of each category of cost are specified in Table 6.

5

Travelling expenses are only payable where a qualified legal representative
travelled to a court at least 10 miles from their office or chambers.

6

Overnight accommodation and overnight subsistence allowance are only payable
where a qualified legal representative travelled to a court:

6.a

at least 100 miles from their office or chambers to attend a preliminary or
cross-examination hearing which was listed for one day; or

6.b

at least 50 miles from their office or chambers to attend a preliminary or
cross-examination hearing which was listed for more than one day.

7

In the event a hearing concludes sooner than anticipated, overnight
accommodation costs incurred in reliance on the original listing may be
payable where the qualified legal representative is unable to recover the cost
of the unused portion of a booking.

8

The Lord Chancellor will only pay overnight subsistence allowance where the
costs were incurred in connection with overnight accommodation.

9

The Lord Chancellor will not pay costs in respect of travel by air.

10

Subject to paragraph 11, the Lord Chancellor will not pay costs in respect of
first-class travel.

11

The cost of first-class travel may be paid where the ticket purchased was
cheaper than the equivalent standard-class ticket.

Table 6 Applicable maximum rates Category of costs claimed Maximum rate
payable, where evidenced (1) Excluding the purchase of alcohol. (2) Excluding
the purchase of food or drink. (a) Vehicle mileage £0.45 per mile (b) Public
transport £180 per journey (c) Overnight accommodation £100 per night (d)
Overnight subsistence allowance £21 per night (e) Other out of pocket expenses
£40 per day

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

Sections 65 and 66 of the Domestic Abuse Act  2021 (c. 17)  introduce new Part
4A into the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 and new Part 7A into
the Courts Act 2003, respectively. Those provisions operate in family and
civil proceedings to prohibit cross-examination in person between a party and
a witness in defined circumstances, including where there is evidence of
domestic abuse between them.

Where a party to family or civil proceedings is prohibited from cross-
examining a witness in person by virtue of these provisions, the court is
required to consider whether there is a satisfactory alternative means for the
witness to be cross-examined, or for obtaining the evidence that the witness
might have given under cross-examination. If the court concludes that there is
no satisfactory alternative means that can be used, it must consider whether
it is necessary in the interests of justice for the witness to be cross-
examined by a court-appointed ‘qualified legal representative’. Power is
conferred on the Lord Chancellor to make provision by regulations for the
payment out of central funds of sums to cover the properly incurred fees,
costs and expenses of a legal representative appointed under new section
31W(6) of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings Act 1984 or new section
85K(6) of the Courts Act 2003.

Regulation 1 defines the respective case types for the purposes of calculating
the fee payable to a qualified legal representative, in accordance with
regulation 2 and the provisions of the Schedule.

Regulation 3 makes provision for payment of an additional bolt-on fee where
the bundle of documents for a hearing exceeds 350 pages. Regulation 4 confirms
the amounts specified in the Schedule are exclusive of Value Added Tax.

Regulation 5 makes provision for payment of a fee where a qualified legal
representative has undertaken preparatory work for a hearing which is
subsequently cancelled.

Regulations 6 and 7 make procedural provision in respect of the claims for and
the payment of fees.

Part 1 of the Schedule prescribes the fixed fees payable in family proceedings
in accordance with the case type, the type of hearing and the level of judge
before whom the matter is heard. Part 2 of the Schedule makes similar
provision in relation to civil proceedings. Part 3 of the Schedule prescribes
the bolt-on fee payable in both family and civil proceedings pursuant to
Regulation 3.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

