Title: The Renting Homes (Explanatory Information for Written Statements of Occupation Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-24
Description: Section 32 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”) specifies the information and terms that must be contained in a written statement of an occupation contract.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/22

## The Renting Homes (Explanatory Information for Written Statements of Occupation Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   7 January 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   12 January 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by sections 32(4) and 256(1) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Explanatory Information
for Written Statements of Occupation Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and
they come into force on   1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force)   .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations, “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

2.2

The words and expressions used in these Regulations have the same meaning as
they have in the Act.

### Prescribed matters for which explanatory information must be contained in the written statement of an occupation contract

3

A written statement of an occupation contract must contain explanatory
information about the following matters—

3.a

the status of the document (i.e., that it is a written statement of the
occupation contract),

3.b

the short title of the Act under which the occupation contact is made,

3.c

the meaning of—

3.c.i

“occupation date”, and

3.c.ii

“key matters”,

3.d

the main features of the following—

3.d.i

“fundamental terms”, i.e.—

3.d.i.aa

that these are provisions of the Act or of any other enactment that the Welsh
Ministers specify are fundamental terms that are automatically incorporated as
terms of the occupation contract;

3.d.i.bb

that some of the fundamental provisions cannot be omitted or modified and must
reflect the wording in the Act apart from editorial changes  and that others,
subject to the agreement of the landlord and contract-holder, can be omitted
or modified, but only if doing so improves the position of the contract-
holder;

3.d.i.cc

that where the contract is a converted contract , once the landlord has given
the contract-holder a written statement of occupation contract certain
fundamental terms can be omitted or modified as described in paragraph (bb);

3.d.ii

“supplementary terms”, i.e.—

3.d.ii.aa

that these are provisions set out in regulations made by Welsh Ministers,
which are also automatically incorporated, except where the contract is a
converted contract, as terms of the occupation contract unless they are
omitted or modified as described in paragraph (cc) or (dd);

3.d.ii.bb

that where the contract is a converted contract, those supplementary terms
that are incompatible with the terms of the contract prior to its conversion
to an occupation contract, will not be incorporated into the occupation
contract;

3.d.ii.cc

that the supplementary terms can be omitted or modified, subject to the
agreement of the landlord and contract-holder, either to improve the position
of the landlord or the contract-holder, provided that the omission or
modification would not make a supplementary term incompatible with a
fundamental term;

3.d.ii.dd

that where the contract is a converted contract, once the landlord has given
the contract-holder a written statement of occupation contract the
supplementary terms can be omitted or modified as described in paragraph (cc);

3.d.iii

“additional terms”, if included in the occupation contract, i.e.—

3.d.iii.aa

that these can cover any other matter, provided they do not conflict with a
key matter, a fundamental term or a supplementary term;

3.d.iii.bb

that these are agreed by the landlord and contract-holder;

3.d.iii.cc

that where the contract is a converted contract, these are existing terms of
the contract, which were agreed by the contract-holder and the landlord and
included in the contract prior to the conversion to an occupation contract,
which would continue to have effect except where they are incompatible with a
fundamental provision incorporated as a term of the occupation contract,

3.e

that if any fundamental or supplementary provisions have not been incorporated
as terms of the occupation contract, the method by which these are identified
in the written statement ,

3.f

that the written statement of the occupation contract  ...—

3.f.i

  may be given to the contract-holder before the occupation date and, if it is
not, must be given to the contract-holder within  14 days of the occupation
date ;

3.f.ii

where the contract is a converted contract,  must be given to the contract-
holder   within six months of the date the contract converted to an occupation
contract ,

3.g

that if the landlord fails to give the written statement of the occupation
contract to the contract-holder within 14 days of the occupation date, the
landlord may be liable to pay the contract-holder compensation equivalent to a
day’s rent for each day that the written statement is not provided, starting
with the occupation date, up to a maximum of two months’ rent (unless the
landlord’s failure to provide the written statement was intentional in which
case, the court may determine that an increased amount per day is payable)

3.h

that the written statement of the occupation contract can be provided
electronically if the contract-holder has agreed to receive the written
statement in an electronic form ,

3.i

that the written statement of the occupation contract sets out the rights and
responsibilities of the contract-holder and the landlord,

3.j

that the contract-holder should read the terms of the written statement of the
occupation contract to ensure they fully understand them, and they are content
they reflect the modifications to terms or additional terms agreed between the
contract-holder and landlord,

3.k

that the contract-holder should keep the written statement of the occupation
contract safe as they may need to refer to it in the future,

3.l

that more information about occupation contracts, including dispute
resolution, can be found—

3.l.i

on the website provided by the Welsh Government,

3.l.ii

from advice agencies such as the Citizens Advice Bureau or Shelter Cymru, or

3.l.iii

from independent legal advisors,

3.m

that disputes regarding the terms of the occupation contract may be determined
in the county court,

3.n

that if a contract-holder has an issue with the dwelling they should first
contact their landlord to try and resolve it but if this is not successful
then advice agencies, such as the Citizens Advice Bureau or Shelter Cymru or
independent legal advisors, may be able to assist,

3.o

that any additional term, or modification to a supplementary term, that is
incorporated in the occupation contract is not binding on the contract-holder
if it is an unfair term under section 62 (requirement for contract terms and
notices to be fair) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ,

3.p

that the contract-holder cannot be evicted without a court order, unless they
abandon the dwelling,

3.q

that the contract-holder has important rights relating to how they can use the
dwelling, although some of these rights are subject to obtaining the
landlord’s consent,

3.r

that the contract-holder can be held responsible for any anti-social behaviour
or other prohibited conduct  of anyone who lives in or visits the dwelling,

3.s

anti-social behaviour or other prohibited conduct can include—

3.s.i

excessive noise,

3.s.ii

verbal abuse,

3.s.iii

physical assault, and

3.s.iv

domestic abuse (including physical, sexual, psychological, emotional or
financial abuse),

3.t

that a succession right may apply to someone who lives in the dwelling with
the contract-holder,

3.u

that the contract-holder must not allow the dwelling to become overcrowded by
permitting more persons to live in the dwelling than the maximum number
allowed, and

3.v

that Part 10 of the Housing Act 1985 (overcrowding)  provides the basis for
determining the maximum number of people permitted to live in the dwelling.

### Further prescribed matters for which explanatory information must be provided for specific types of written statement of occupation contract

4

Regulations 5 to 9 prescribe the explanatory information which must be
contained in the written statement of specified types of occupation contract.

### Periodic standard contract

5

In relation to a periodic standard contract, in addition to the matters
prescribed in regulation 3, a written statement of the occupation contract
must contain explanatory information about the following matters—

5.a

that the contract-holder’s contract is periodic and continues from one rental
period to the next (typically monthly, weekly or quarterly);

5.b

that before a court can make a possession order, the landlord must demonstrate
that all the correct procedures have been followed and that at least one of
the following is satisfied—

5.b.i

the contract-holder has broken one or more terms of the occupation contract
(which include, failure to pay rent, engaging in or threatening to engage in
anti-social behaviour or other prohibited conduct, or failing to take proper
care of the dwelling) and it is reasonable to evict them;

5.b.ii

the contract-holder is in serious rent arrears (for example where the rental
period is a month, at least two months’ rent is unpaid);

5.b.iii

the landlord needs to move the contract-holder and one of the estate
management grounds under section 160 (estate management grounds) of the Act
applies, suitable alternative accommodation is, or will be, available when the
order takes effect and it is reasonable to evict them;

5.b.iv

where the occupation contract incorporates section 173 (landlord’s notice) of
the Act as a term of the occupation contract, the landlord has given the
contract-holder notice under section 173 of the Act that they must give up
possession on a specified date in the notice and the landlord also must
demonstrate—

5.b.iv.aa

no restrictions on giving notice under section 173 of the Act apply, including
the restrictions set out in section 75 (other consequences of operating
unlicensed HMOs: restriction on terminating tenancies) and section 98 (other
consequences of operating unlicensed houses: restriction on terminating
tenancies) of the Housing Act 2004  and section 44 (restriction on terminating
tenancies) of the Housing (Wales) Act 2014 ),

5.b.iv.bb

the contract-holder was given at least six months’ notice that they must give
up possession and the notice must not have been issued in the first six months
of the occupation date of the contract, except where the contract is within
Schedule 8A or Schedule 9  to the Act, and

5.b.iv.cc

where the contract is within Schedule 8A to the Act, the contract-holder was
given at least two months’ notice that they must give up possession.

### Introductory standard contract and prohibited conduct standard contract

6

In relation to an introductory standard contract or a prohibited conduct
standard contract, in addition to the matters prescribed in regulations 3 and
5, a written statement of the occupation contract must contain explanatory
information about the following matter: that unless the occupation contract is
extended or otherwise terminated, at the end of the period for which it is
made, the contract will become a secure contract.

### Supported standard contract

7

In relation to a supported standard contract, in addition to the matters
prescribed in regulations 3 and 5, a written statement of the occupation
contract must contain explanatory information about the following matter: that
the contract-holder can be temporarily excluded from the dwelling if they—

7.a

are violent towards another person in the dwelling,

7.b

do something in the dwelling that creates a risk of significant harm to any
person, or

7.c

behave in a way which seriously impedes the ability of another resident of
supported accommodation to benefit from support provided in connection with
that accommodation.

### Fixed term standard contract

8

In relation to a fixed term standard contract, in addition to the matters
prescribed in regulation 3, a written statement of the occupation contract
must contain explanatory information about the following matters—

8.a

that the contract-holder’s contract is for a fixed term standard contract and
it lasts for a specified period of time agreed between the contract-holder and
the landlord;

8.b

that before a court can make a possession order, the landlord must demonstrate
that the correct procedures have been followed and that at least one of the
following is satisfied—

8.b.i

the contract-holder has broken one or more terms of the contract (which
include failure to pay rent, engaging in or threatening to engage in anti-
social behaviour or other prohibited conduct, or failing to take proper care
of the dwelling) and it is reasonable to evict them;

8.b.ii

the contract-holder is in serious rent arrears (for example where the rental
period is a month, at least two months’ rent is unpaid);

8.b.iii

the landlord needs to move the contract-holder, and one of the estate
management grounds under section 160 of the Act applies, suitable alternative
accommodation is, or will be, available when the order takes effect and it is
reasonable to evict them;

8.b.iv

where the contract is within Schedule 9B  to the Act, the contract-holder was
given at least two months’ notice that they must give up possession under
section 186 (landlord’s notice in connection with end of term of contract
within Schedule 9B) of the Act;

8.b.v

where the occupation contract incorporates section 194 (landlord’s break
clause) of the Act as a term of the occupation contract, the landlord has
given the contract-holder notice under section 194 of the Act that they must
give up possession on a date specified in that notice and the landlord also
must demonstrate that—

8.b.v.aa

no restrictions on giving notice under section 194 of the Act apply;

8.b.v.bb

the contract-holder was given at least six months’ notice that they must give
up possession  ,  the notice was given at least 18 months after the occupation
date, and the fixed term of the contract was for at least two years, except
where the occupation contract is  a   standard contract within Schedule 8A,
Schedule 9 or Schedule 9C  to the Act;

8.b.v.cc

where the occupation contract is within Schedule 8A to the Act,  the
contract-holder was given at least two months’ notice that they must give up
possession;

8.b.v.dd

where the occupation contract is within either Schedule 8A, Schedule 9 or
Schedule 9C or any combination of these Schedules to the Act, the
contract–holder was given the relevant notice that they must give up
possession; and for the purposes of this paragraph, the “relevant notice” is
the notice that is applicable to the type of occupation contract having
regards to any restrictions that apply to that particular type of occupation
contract;

8.c

that if the contract-holder remains in occupation after the end of the term,
the landlord and contract-holder are to be treated as having made a new
periodic standard contract in relation to the dwelling.

### Secure contract

9

In relation to a secure contract in addition to the matters prescribed in
regulation 3, a written statement of the occupation contract must contain
explanatory information about the following matters—

9.a

that before a court can make a possession order, the landlord must demonstrate
that the correct procedures have been followed and that at least one of the
following is satisfied—

9.a.i

the contract-holder has broken one or more terms of the contract (which
include, failure to pay rent, engaging in or threatening to engage in anti-
social behaviour or other prohibited conduct, or failing to take proper care
of the dwelling) and it is reasonable to evict them;

9.a.ii

the landlord needs to move the contract-holder, and one of the estate
management grounds apply under section 160 of the Act applies, suitable
alternative accommodation is, or will be, available when the order takes
effect and it is reasonable to evict them;

9.b

that the contract-holder’s secure contract is periodic and continues from one
rental period to the next (as referred to in the key matters within the
written statement).

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

Section 32 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“ the Act ”)
specifies the information and terms that must be contained in a written
statement of an occupation contract.

Section 32(4) of the Act provides that a written statement of an occupation
contract must also contain explanatory information about such matters as may
be prescribed and these Regulations prescribe that explanatory information.

Regulations 3 and 5 to 9 prescribe the matters which must be contained in the
written statement of the relevant occupation contract including converted
contracts (see paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 12 to the Act for the definition of
“converted contract”).

Regulation 3 applies to all occupation contracts.

Regulation 5 applies to periodic standard contracts.

Regulation 6 applies to introductory standard contracts and prohibited conduct
standard contracts.

Regulation 7 applies to supported standard contracts.

Regulation 8 applies to fixed term standard contracts.

Regulation 9 applies to secure contracts.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Housing Policy Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

