Title: The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-11-29
Description: These Regulations amend the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 2013 (“the PLPS Regulations”). The PLPS Regulations govern the arrangements in England, under Part 7 of the National Health Service Act 2006 (“the Act”), for the provision of pharmaceutical and local pharmaceutical services.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/930

## The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    National Health Service, England

  Made   1st September 2022

  Laid before Parliament   2nd September 2022

  Coming into force   1st October 2022

      The Secretary of State for Health and Social Care, in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 126(2), 129, 130(1), 164(6), (8A)(a) and (c),
(8B)(b) and (8D) and 272(7) and (8) of the National Health Service Act 2006 ,
makes the following Regulations:           At the time these Regulations are
made, the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care considers, for the
purposes of section 164(8A)(c) of that Act, coronavirus to be a pandemic
disease.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical
and Local Pharmaceutical Services) (Amendment) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st October 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in relation to England
only.

### Amendment of the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 2013

2

The National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and Local Pharmaceutical Services)
Regulations 2013  are amended in accordance with regulations 3 to 8.

### Amendment of regulation 2

3

In regulation 2  (interpretation), in paragraph (1), at the appropriate place
in the alphabetical order insert—

      “ coronavirus ” has the meaning given in section 1(1) of the Coronavirus
Act 2020  (meaning of “coronavirus” and related terminology);

.

### Amendment of regulation 10

4

4.1

In regulation 10  (pharmaceutical lists and EPS lists)—

4.1.a

omit paragraphs (4) and (5); and

4.1.b

in paragraph (6), omit “and any EPS lists”.

4.2

Omit “and EPS lists” from the heading of regulation 10.

### New regulation 91A

5

After regulation 91 (remuneration of NHS chemists: instruments of appointment
of NHS England) insert—

####### Zero or nominal product reimbursement for coronavirus vaccines and antivirals

5.91A

5.91A.1

In the case of the drugs or medicines to which paragraph (2) applies,
determining authorities must ensure that determinations under section 164 of
the 2006 Act  (remuneration of persons providing pharmaceutical services) in
respect of pharmaceutical remuneration that relates to the supply or
administration of those drugs or medicines either—

5.91A.1.a

do not provide for or permit any reimbursement to be paid for the cost of the
drug or medicine (and so the basic price of the drug or medicine, for Drug
Tariff purposes, is zero); or

5.91A.1.b

only provide for or permit nominal reimbursement to be paid for the cost of
the drug or medicine.

5.91A.2

This paragraph applies to—

5.91A.2.a

a drug or medicine which is used for vaccinating or immunising people against
coronavirus (“a coronavirus vaccine”), if the conditions set out in paragraph
(3) are satisfied; or

5.91A.2.b

an antiviral drug or medicine which is used for preventing or treating
coronavirus (“a coronavirus antiviral”), if the conditions set out in
paragraph (4) are satisfied.

5.91A.3

The conditions set out in this paragraph are—

5.91A.3.a

the Secretary of State (references to whom in this regulation encompass both
the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care and other Secretaries of
State) has purchased coronavirus vaccines for supply as part of the health
service;

5.91A.3.b

the Secretary of State has made arrangements for all or part of the Secretary
of State’s stock of coronavirus vaccines, purchased as mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a), to be supplied to NHS pharmacists and LPS chemists, whether
directly or via an intermediary, at no cost to the NHS pharmacists or LPS
chemists;

5.91A.3.c

NHS England has made arrangements for the administration of coronavirus
vaccines from the stock mentioned in sub-paragraph (b) as part of an enhanced
service; and

5.91A.3.d

the coronavirus vaccine in question is from that stock and administered as
part of that service.

5.91A.4

The conditions set out in this paragraph are—

5.91A.4.a

the Secretary of State has purchased coronavirus antivirals of a particular
type for supply as part of the health service;

5.91A.4.b

the Secretary of State has made arrangements for all or part of the Secretary
of State’s stock of that particular type of coronavirus antiviral, purchased
as mentioned in sub-paragraph (a), to be supplied to NHS pharmacists and LPS
chemists, whether directly or via an intermediary, at no cost to the NHS
pharmacists or LPS chemists; and

5.91A.4.c

the coronavirus antiviral in question—

5.91A.4.c.i

is from that stock, or

5.91A.4.c.ii

is not from that stock but is nevertheless of the particular type of
coronavirus antiviral that is available at no cost to NHS pharmacists and LPS
chemists under the arrangements mentioned in sub-paragraph (b).

5.91A.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4), the Secretary of State may characterise the
particular type of coronavirus antivirals that are available at no cost to NHS
pharmacists and LPS chemists solely by reference to the presentation of the
drug or medicine (as well as by reference to its active ingredient, strength
or any, or a combination of any, other distinguishing characteristics).

5.91A.6

For the avoidance of doubt, determinations under section 164 of the 2006 Act
that, in accordance with this regulation—

5.91A.6.a

do not provide for or permit reimbursement to be paid for the cost of a drug
or medicine (and so the basic price of the drug or medicine, for Drug Tariff
purposes, is zero); or

5.91A.6.b

only provide for or permit nominal reimbursement to be paid for the cost of a
drug or medicine,

may nevertheless provide for or permit remuneration to be paid for any service
provided by a NHS pharmacist or LPS chemist, in the course of which the drug
or medicine is supplied or administered.

5.91A.7

In this regulation, “ nominal reimbursement ” means, in the case of a drug or
medicine that has been provided at no cost to a NHS pharmacist or LPS chemist,
payment of an amount that is paid in place of the amount that the NHS
pharmacist or LPS chemist would ordinarily make from the difference between—

5.91A.7.a

the amount that they paid for the drug or medicine when they purchased it; and

5.91A.7.b

the amount that they are paid by NHS England in respect of the cost of that
drug or medicine (most commonly the basic price listed in the Drug Tariff), if
they supply or administer that drug or medicine under arrangements for the
provision of pharmaceutical or local pharmaceutical services.

.

### Amendment of Schedule 2

6

6.1

Schedule 2 (applications in respect of pharmaceutical lists and the procedures
to be followed) is amended as follows.

6.2

In Part 1 (information to be included in routine and excepted applications),
after paragraph 5 (fitness information that has already been provided under
pharmaceutical or local pharmaceutical services) insert—

######### Updating of information about or relating to a superintendent

6.2.5A

6.2.5A.1

Where, in the case of a body corporate making an application for inclusion in
a pharmaceutical list, there is a change to the superintendent of the body
corporate before the applicant is included in a pharmaceutical list or the
application cannot be further proceeded with, the applicant must update the
application as soon as is reasonably practicable with—

6.2.5A.1.a

the details about that superintendent that the applicant would have been
required to submit under paragraph 3; and

6.2.5A.1.b

the details about any other body corporate that the applicant would have been
required to submit under paragraph 4 because of that superintendent being that
other body corporate’s superintendent,

had the superintendent been in post at the time the application was submitted.

6.2.5A.2

If—

6.2.5A.2.a

the application has been determined by NHS England but—

6.2.5A.2.a.i

there are proceedings relating to the application that have not yet reached
their final outcome, or

6.2.5A.2.a.ii

in the case of an application that has been granted, there are no such
proceedings but the applicant has not yet been included in a pharmaceutical
list; and

6.2.5A.2.b

NHS England is satisfied, on the basis of the information provided or required
to be provided under sub-paragraph (1), that there are grounds for refusing
the application under regulation 33 or imposing a condition under regulation
35,

NHS England may redetermine the application, but only for the purpose of
refusing it under regulation 33 or imposing a condition under regulation 35
(so there may still be a purpose to any proceedings that have not yet reached
their final outcome).

.

6.3

In Part 3 (notification of certain applications), in paragraph 19
(notification procedure for notifiable applications), in sub-paragraph (4),
after “given to them” insert  “, or within 30 days in the case of applications
pursuant to regulation 26A” .

### Amendment of Schedule 3

7

In Schedule 3 (appeals to the Secretary of State), in Part 3 (determination of
appeals), in paragraph 7 (flexibility with regard to the manner or determining
appeals), after sub-paragraph (3) insert—

7.4

Where an application for inclusion in a pharmaceutical list has been updated
in accordance with paragraph 5A of Schedule 2, the Secretary of State may, on
an application from NHS England, defer the Secretary of State’s decision in
relation to the application on any ground that NHS England could have relied
on for deferring the application pursuant to regulation 34 until—

7.4.a

the reason for the deferral no longer exists; or

7.4.b

the outcome of the cause of the deferral is known and NHS England has—

7.4.b.i

decided, in the light of that outcome, whether or not to redetermine the
application, and

7.4.b.ii

redetermined the application, if it is to be redetermined.

7.5

Where NHS England redetermines an application in accordance with paragraph
5A(2) of Schedule 2 and refuses it, the Secretary of State may direct that the
proceedings relating to the appeal are to be brought to an end without a
determination of the matter under paragraph 9.

.

### Amendment of Schedule 4

8

8.1

Schedule 4 (terms of service of NHS pharmacists) is amended as follows.

8.2

In Part 3 (hours of opening), in paragraph 23 (pharmacy opening hours:
general), in sub-paragraph (7)(b)—

8.2.a

in sub-paragraph (ii), after “core opening hours)” insert  “, if that change
reduces the total number of any supplementary opening hours” ;

8.2.b

in sub-paragraph (iii), after “supplementary opening hours” insert  “, unless
that change relates to an increase in the total number of supplementary
opening hours” ; and

8.2.c

in the full-out words at the end, after “3 months” insert  “, or 5 weeks in
the case of changes pursuant to sub-paragraph (ii) or (iii), ” .

8.3

In Part 4 (other terms of service), in paragraph 28  (clinical governance and
the promotion of healthy living), in sub-paragraph (2)—

8.3.a

in paragraph (a), omit sub-paragraph (iv); and

8.3.b

in paragraph (e), after sub-paragraph (iii) insert—

8.3.b.iiia

a requirement that P undertakes an approved workforce survey annually, in an
approved manner,

.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Health and Social Care
James Morris   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department of Health
and Social Care

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the National Health Service (Pharmaceutical and
Local Pharmaceutical Services) Regulations 2013 (“ the PLPS Regulations ”).
The PLPS Regulations govern the arrangements in England, under Part 7 of the
National Health Service Act 2006 (“ the Act ”), for the provision of
pharmaceutical and local pharmaceutical services.

  The scheme for paying for pharmaceutical and local pharmaceutical services
in Part 7 of the Act is predicated on the basis that the determining
authorities for pharmaceutical remuneration will ordinarily include, in the
payments for those services, an amount which is in respect of (but ordinarily
slightly more than) the price paid by service providers when they purchased
the prescription items that they supply or administer to NHS patients.
However, there are powers in Part 7 to enable alternatives to these ordinary
remuneration arrangements in some circumstances.

  A new regulation 91A is included in the PLPS Regulations which provides
that, where the Government has centrally purchased coronavirus vaccines or
coronavirus antivirals and makes those products available to community
pharmacies at no cost, the determining authorities for pharmaceutical
remuneration are to set a zero or nominal NHS reimbursement price for those
products, if certain conditions are met. However, this does not prevent the
determining authorities from paying community pharmacies for the services
(such as professional services) that they provide in conjunction with the
supply or administration of those vaccines or antivirals (regulations 3 and
5).

  These Regulations also make a small number of relatively minor amendments to
the PLPS Regulations.

  Applicants for inclusion in a pharmaceutical list (the basis on which most
community pharmacies and all dispensing appliance contractors provide
pharmaceutical services) are required to provide updates of the fitness to
practise information about their superintendents up until they are actually
included on such a list or the application can no longer be proceeded with
(for example, because an application has been refused and the time for
bringing an appeal has expired) – and consequential amendments are made to
provide for the redetermination of applications where this becomes necessary
on fitness grounds (regulations 6(2) and 7). The requirement for NHS England
to keep lists of service providers that use the Electronic Prescription
Service is removed (regulation 4). The consultation period in relation to
applications to consolidate services onto a particular site is reduced
(regulation 6(3)). The notice period where a community pharmacy on a
pharmaceutical list wants to reduce its supplementary hours, which are
ordinarily the hours it is open above 40 hours per week, is reduced – and the
notification requirement is removed altogether where the pharmacy wants to
increase its supplementary hours (regulation 8(2)). There is a new requirement
for community pharmacies on pharmaceutical lists to undertake an annual
workforce survey as part of its clinical governance obligations, but the
existing requirement to undertake a patient satisfaction survey as part of
those obligations is removed (regulation 8(3)).

  A full impact assessment has not been undertaken in relation to this
instrument as these Regulations are not expected to have a significant impact
on the public and voluntary sectors, and only a limited impact on the private
sector, below the threshold for undertaking a full impact assessment.

