Title: The Trade in Animals and Related Products (Amendment and Legislative Functions) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by section 8(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (c. 16) in order to address failures of retained EU law to operate effectively and other deficiencies (in particular under section 8(2)(f) and (g) of that Act) arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The retained EU law concerns the importation of animals and related animal products into Great Britain, or the transit of animals or related animal products through Great Britain.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1322

## The Trade in Animals and Related Products (Amendment and Legislative Functions) Regulations 2022

    Exiting The European Union       Animals

  Made   12th December 2022

  Coming into force   13th December 2022

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by section 8(1) of, and paragraph 21 of Schedule 7 to, the European
Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 .           In accordance with paragraph 1(1) of
Schedule 7 to that Act, a draft of this instrument has been laid before
Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Introductory

#### Citation

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Trade in Animals and Related Products
(Amendment and Legislative Functions) Regulations 2022.

#### Commencement

2

These Regulations come into force on the day after the day on which they are
made.

#### Application and Extent

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), these Regulations extend to England and
Wales and Scotland.

3.2

In Part 2, each amendment made by regulations  5  and  6  has the same extent
as the provision amended.

3.3

Part 3 applies in England and Scotland.

#### Interpretation

4

4.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, the words and expressions listed in
paragraph (2) as used in these Regulations and in the EU Directives modified
by Part 5 have the meanings given in paragraph (2).

4.2

The words and expressions are—

      “ the appropriate authority ” has the meaning given in Article 3 of the
Official Controls Regulation;           “ the Aquatic Animal Health
Regulations ” means—         in relation to England and Wales, the Aquatic
Animal Health (England and Wales) Regulations 2009 ;           in relation to
Scotland, the Aquatic Animal Health (Scotland) Regulations 2009 ;
“ Directive 64/432 ” means Council Directive  64/432/EEC  on animal health
problems affecting intra-Community trade in bovine animals and swine  as it
had effect immediately before IP completion day;           “ Directive 88/407
” means Council Directive  88/407/EEC  laying down the animal health
requirements applicable to intra-Community trade in and imports of deep-frozen
semen of domestic animals of the bovine species  as it had effect immediately
before IP completion day;           “ Directive 89/556 ” means Council
Directive  89/556/EEC  on animal health conditions governing intra-Community
trade in and importation from third countries of embryos of domestic animals
of the bovine species  as it had effect immediately before IP completion day;
“ Directive 90/429 ” means Council Directive  90/429/EEC  laying down the
animal health requirements applicable to intra-Community trade in and imports
of semen of domestic animals of the porcine species  as it had effect
immediately before IP completion day;           “ Directive 91/68 ” means
Council Directive  91/68/EEC  on animal health conditions governing intra-
Community trade in ovine and caprine animals  as it had effect immediately
before IP completion day;           “ Directive 92/65 ” means Council
Directive  92/65/EEC  laying down animal health requirements governing trade
in and imports into the Community of animals, semen, ova and embryos not
subject to animal health requirements laid down in specific Community rules
referred to in Annex A(1) to Directive  90/425/EEC  as it had effect
immediately before IP completion day;           “ Directive 92/118 ” means
Council Directive  92/118/EEC  laying down animal health and public health
requirements governing trade in and imports into the Community of products not
subject to the said requirements laid down in specific Community rules
referred to in Annex A(1) to Directive  89/662/EEC  and, as regards pathogens,
to Directive  90/425/EEC  as it had effect immediately before IP completion
day;           “ Directive 2002/99 ” means Council  Directive 2002/99/EC
laying down the animal health rules governing the production, processing,
distribution and introduction of products of animal origin for human
consumption  as it had effect immediately before IP completion day;
“ Directive 2004/68 ” means Council  Directive 2004/68/EC  laying down animal
health rules for the importation into and transit through the Community of
certain live ungulate animals  as it had effect immediately before IP
completion day;           “ Directive 2009/156 ” means Council  Directive
2009/156/EC  on animal health conditions governing the movement and
importation from third countries of equidae  as it had effect immediately
before IP completion day;           “ Directive 2009/158 ” means Council
Directive 2009/158/EC  on animal health conditions governing intra-Community
trade in, and imports from third countries of, poultry and hatching eggs  as
it had effect immediately before IP completion day;           “ domestic law ”
means the law of England and Wales, Scotland;           “ the Official
Controls Regulation ” means  Regulation (EU) 2017/625  of the European
Parliament and of the Council on official controls and other official
activities performed to ensure the application of food and feed law, rules on
animal health and welfare, plant health and plant protection products ;
“Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002 ” means Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002  of the
European Parliament and of the Council laying down the general principles and
requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority and
laying down procedures in matters of food safety ;           “Regulation  (EC)
No 852/2004 ” means Regulation  (EC) No 852/2004  of the European Parliament
and of the Council on the hygiene of foodstuffs ;           “Regulation  (EC)
No 853/2004 ” means Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004  of the European Parliament
and of the Council laying down specific hygiene rules for food of animal
origin ;           “ Regulation  (EC) 1251/2008 ” means  Regulation (EC)
1251/2008  implementing Council  Directive 2006/88/EC  as regards conditions
and certification requirements for the placing on the market and the import
into the Community of aquaculture animals and products thereof and laying down
a list of vector species ;           “Regulation  (EC) No 1069/2009 ” means
Regulation  (EC) No 1069/2009  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down health rules as regards animal by-products and derived products
not intended for human consumption .

### Amendment of legislation relating to trade in animals and related products

#### Amendment of the Trade in Animals and Related Products Regulations 2011

5

5.1

The Trade in Animals and Related Products Regulations 2011  are amended as
follows.

5.2

In regulation 2(1), at the beginning of the list of definitions insert—

      “ the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022 ” means the Trade in Animals and
Related Products (Amendment and Legislative Functions) (EU Exit) Regulations
2022;

.

5.3

In regulation 15, for paragraph (3)(a) substitute—

5.3.a

the consignment complies with the requirements of the following, so far as
relevant and when read with any other provisions of the legislation referred
to below which apply in relation to such requirements—

5.3.a.i

the legislation listed in regulation  7(2)  of the TARP (ALF) Regulations
2022, as modified by Part 5 of those Regulations or by the legislation
referred to in paragraph (ii);

5.3.a.ii

any legislation made by the appropriate authority under the functions listed
in the Schedule to the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022, where applicable.

.

5.4

In regulation 18, in paragraph (3), for “in the relevant legislation listed in
Schedule 1” substitute  “under regulation 15(3)(a)” .

5.5

Omit Schedule 1.

#### Amendment of the Trade in Animals and Related Products (Scotland) Regulations 2012

6

6.1

The Trade in Animals and Related Products (Scotland) Regulations 2012  are
amended as follows.

6.2

In regulation 2—

6.2.a

in paragraph (1), after the definition of “Regulation (EU) No 2016/1012”
insert—

      “ the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022 ” means the Trade in Animals and
Related Products (Amendment and Legislative Functions) (EU Exit) Regulations
2022;

;

6.2.b

omit paragraph (2).

6.3

In regulation 13, for paragraph (3)(a) substitute—

6.3.a

the consignment complies with the requirements of the following, so far as
relevant and when read with any other provisions of the legislation referred
to below which apply in relation to such requirements—

6.3.a.i

the legislation listed in regulation 7(2) of the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022,
as modified by Part 5 of those Regulations or by the legislation referred to
in paragraph (ii);

6.3.a.ii

any legislation made by the appropriate authority under the functions listed
in the Schedule to the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022, where applicable.

.

6.4

In regulation 16, in paragraph (3), for “in the relevant legislation listed in
Schedule 1” substitute  “under regulation 13(3)(a)” .

6.5

Omit Schedule 1.

### Animal and public health requirements

#### List of animal and public health requirements

7

7.1

Paragraph  (2)  lists legislation for the purposes of—

7.1.a

regulations 15(3)(a) and 18(3) of the Trade in Animals and Related Products
Regulations 2011, and

7.1.b

regulations 13(3)(a) and 16(3) of the Trade in Animals and Related Products
(Scotland) Regulations 2012.

7.2

The legislation referred to in paragraph (1) is—

7.2.a

as regards provisions of EU Directives, the following provisions, as read with
Articles 1 and 2 of the Directive in question—

7.2.a.i

Article 14 of, and Annexes A to E to, Directive 64/432;

7.2.a.ii

Articles 8 to 11 of, and Annexes A to C to, Directive 88/407;

7.2.a.iii

Articles 7 to 10 of, and Annexes A and B to, Directive 89/556;

7.2.a.iv

Articles 7 to 12 of, and Annexes A to C to, Directive 90/429;

7.2.a.v

Article 6 of, and Annexes A to D to, Directive 91/68;

7.2.a.vi

Articles 3 to 11, 13, 16 to 18, and 24 of, and Annexes A to D and F to,
Directive 92/65;

7.2.a.vii

Articles 3 to 6, 9 and 10, and 13 of, and Annexes 1 and 1A to,  Directive
92/118 ;

7.2.a.viii

Articles 3, 4, 7 and 9 of, and Annexes 1 and 3 to,  Directive 2002/99 ;

7.2.a.ix

Articles 3, 7 and 11 of, and Annexes 1 to 3 to,  Directive 2004/68 ;

7.2.a.x

Articles 4, 5, 11 to 14, 16 and 17 of, and Annexes 1 and 4 to,  Directive
2009/156 ;

7.2.a.xi

Articles 5, 6, 8 to 12, 14 to 19, 22 to 26, and 30 of, and Annexes 1 to 3 to,
Directive 2009/158 ;

7.2.b

as regards other instruments—

7.2.b.i

the Aquatic Animal Health Regulations;

7.2.b.ii

Regulation  (EC) No 178/2002 ;

7.2.b.iii

Regulation  (EC) No 852/2004 ;

7.2.b.iv

Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004 ;

7.2.b.v

Regulation  (EC) No 183/2005  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down requirements for feed hygiene ;

7.2.b.vi

Commission Decision 2007/275  concerning lists of composite products to be
subject to controls at border control posts ;

7.2.b.vii

Regulation (EC) 1251/2008 ;

7.2.b.viii

Regulation  (EC) No 1069/2009 ;

7.2.b.ix

Regulation (EU) 2016/1012  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
zootechnical and genealogical conditions for the breeding, trade in and entry
into the Union of purebred breeding animals, hybrid breeding pigs and the
germinal products thereof ;

7.2.b.x

the Official Controls Regulation.

### Legislative and other functions

#### Provisions containing legislative and other functions

8

8.1

The Schedule contains lists of provisions of EU Directives that confer
functions on the appropriate authority, together with any provisions that are
to be retained because they are either to be read with a listed provision and
are relevant to the exercise of that function, or connected to the purpose of
that function, for the purposes of paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) of this
regulation.

8.2

Where the Secretary of State is the appropriate authority the functions
conferred by the provisions referred to in the Schedule—

8.2.a

together with any other provisions listed in the Schedule that may be relevant
or connected to the exercise of a listed function, as modified by Part 5 of
those Regulations and so far as they relate to consignments to which these
Regulations apply, are exercisable as if those provisions formed part of
domestic law; and

8.2.b

are to be treated as a function conferred by these Regulations.

8.3

Where the Scottish Ministers are the appropriate authority the functions
conferred by the provisions referred to in the Schedule—

8.3.a

together with any other provisions listed in the Schedule that may be relevant
or connected to the exercise of a listed function, as modified by Part 5 of
those Regulations and so far as they relate to consignments to which these
Regulations apply, are exercisable as if those provisions formed part of
domestic law; and

8.3.b

are to be treated as a function conferred by these Regulations.

#### Regulation-making procedure

9

9.1

Regulations made by the Secretary of State under any of the functions listed
in the Schedule are to be made by statutory instrument.

9.2

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under any of the functions listed
in the Schedule are to be made by Scottish statutory instrument .

9.3

A statutory instrument containing regulations made by the Secretary of State
under any of the functions listed in the Schedule is subject to annulment in
pursuance of a resolution of either House of Parliament.

9.4

Regulations made by the Scottish Ministers under any of the functions listed
in the Schedule are subject to the negative procedure .

9.5

Regulations made under any of the functions listed in the Schedule may—

9.5.a

contain consequential, incidental, supplementary, transitional or saving
provision, including provision amending, repealing or revoking any enactment ;

9.5.b

make different provision for different purposes.

9.6

Before making any regulations under any of the functions listed in the
Schedule, the appropriate authority must consult—

9.6.a

such bodies or persons as appear to the appropriate authority to be
representative of the interests likely to be substantially affected by the
regulations;

9.6.b

such other bodies or persons as the appropriate authority may consider
appropriate.

### Modifications to EU Directives

#### Modifications to EU Directives

10

Regulations  12  to  22  set out modifications to the EU Directives listed in
regulation  7(2) (a) and the Schedule, including modifications to the headings
and titles of divisions of those EU Directives where appropriate, for the
purposes of—

10.a

regulations 15(3)(a) and 18(3) of the Trade in Animals and Related Products
Regulations 2011;

10.b

regulation 13(3)(a) and 16(3) of the Trade in Animals and Related Products
(Scotland) Regulations 2012; and

10.c

regulation 8 of these Regulations.

#### Interpretation

11

11.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, the words and expressions listed in
paragraph (2) as used in this Part and in the EU Directives modified by this
Part have the meanings given in paragraph (2).

11.2

The words and expressions are—

      “ the competent authority ” has the meaning given in Article 3 of the
Official Controls Regulation;           “ Directive 2001/89 ” means Council
Directive 2001/89/EC  on Community measures for the control of classical swine
fever  as it had effect immediately before IP completion day;           “ the
Diseases of Poultry Orders ” means—         in England—         the Diseases
of Poultry (England) Order 2003 ;           the Avian Influenza and Influenza
of Avian Origin in Mammals (England) (No. 2) Order 2006 ;           the Avian
Influenza (Vaccination) (England) Regulations 2006 ;                 in Wales—
the Diseases of Poultry (Wales) Order 2003 ;           the Avian Influenza and
Influenza of Avian Origin in Mammals (Wales) (No 2) Order 2006 ;           the
Avian Influenza (Vaccination) (Wales) (No. 2) Regulations 2006 ;
in Scotland—         the Diseases of Poultry (Scotland) Order 2003 ;
the Avian Influenza and Influenza of Avian Origin in Mammals (Scotland) Order
2006 ;           the Avian Influenza (Slaughter and Vaccination) (Scotland)
Regulations 2006 ;                       “ the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Orders ”
means—         in England—         the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (England) Order
2006 ;           the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (Control of Vaccination) (England)
Regulations 2006 ;                 in Wales—         the Foot-and-Mouth
Disease (Wales) Order 2006 ;           the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (Control of
Vaccination) (Wales) Regulations 2006 ;                 in Scotland—
the Foot-and-Mouth Disease (Scotland) Order 2006 ;           the Foot-and-
Mouth Disease (Slaughter and Vaccination) (Scotland) Regulations 2006 ;
“ national reference laboratory ” means a laboratory designated by the
appropriate authority in accordance with Article 100 of the Official Controls
Regulation;           “ official laboratory ” means a laboratory designated by
the competent authority in accordance with Article 37 of the Official Controls
Regulation;           “ Pigs (Records, Identification and Movement) Order ”
means—         in England, the Pigs (Records, Identification and Movement)
Order 2011 ;           in Wales, the Pigs (Records, Identification and
Movement) (Wales) Order 2011 ;           in Scotland, the Pigs (Records,
Identification and Movement) (Scotland) Order 2011 ;
“Regulation  (EC) No 1760/2000 ” means Regulation  (EC) No 1760/2000  of the
European Parliament and of the Council establishing a system for the
identification and registration of bovine animals and regarding the labelling
of beef and beef products ;           “Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005 ” means
Council Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005  on the protection of animals during
transport and related operations ;           “ Regulation (EU) No 206/2010 ”
means  Commission Regulation (EU) No 206/2010  laying down lists of third
countries, territories or parts thereof authorised for the introduction into
the European Union of certain animals and fresh meat and the veterinary
certification requirements ;           “ the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022 ”
means these Regulations;           “ third country ” means any country or
territory outside the British Islands ;           “ WOAH ” means the World
Organisation for Animal Health ;           “ WOAH reference laboratory ” means
a laboratory that has been officially designated as a WOAH reference
laboratory by the World Assembly of Delegates of the WOAH .

11.3

For the purposes of these Regulations, in the EU Directives modified by this
Part and in the modifications made to the EU Directives in this Part, any
reference to one of those EU Directives, unless specified otherwise, is a
reference to that Directive as it had effect immediately before IP completion
day and as modified by this Part.

#### Modifications to Directive 64/432

12

12.1

Directive 64/432 is modified as follows.

12.2

Article 1 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

Articles 2, 9, 10 and 14 of, and Annexes A, D and E to, this Directive apply
so far as necessary for the purposes of giving effect to provisions which
contain references to them in Directives 88/407, 89/556, 90/429, 92/65 and
2009/156, and  Regulation (EU) No 206/2010 . The provisions of this Directive
to which such reference is made have effect for those purposes without
prejudice to—

12.2.a

Directive 88/407 ;

12.2.b

Directive 90/429 ;

12.2.c

Directive 2002/99 ;

12.2.d

the Official Controls Regulation;

12.2.e

Regulation  (EC) No 1760/2000 ;

12.2.f

Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005 ;

12.2.g

Regulation  (EC) No 1069/2009 ;

12.2.h

Regulation (EU) No 652/2014  of the European Parliament and of the Council
laying down provisions for the management of expenditure relating to the food
chain, animal health and animal welfare, and relating to plant health and
plant reproductive material ;

12.2.i

the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Orders;

12.2.j

the Pigs (Records, Identification and Movement) Order;

12.2.k

the Diseases of Swine Regulations 2014 , so far as they relate to the control
of swine vesicular disease.

.

12.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

12.3.a

paragraph 1 were omitted;

12.3.b

in paragraph 2—

12.3.b.i

in the words before point (a), “In addition” were omitted;

12.3.b.ii

in point (a), in the definition of “herd”, for “Article 2(b) of Directive
92/102/EEC ” there were substituted  “article 2 of the Pigs (Records,
Identification and Movement) Order as regards swine, and Article 2 of
Regulation  (EC) No 1760/2000  as regards bovine animals” ;

12.3.b.iii

in point (e), in the definition of “officially tuberculosis-free Member State
or region of a Member State”, for “Member State”, in each place where it
occurs, there were substituted  “country” ;

12.3.b.iv

in point (g), in the definition of “officially brucellosis-free region”, for
“Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

12.3.b.v

in point (h), in the definition of “officially brucellosis-free Member State”,
for “Member State”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.3.b.vi

in point (k), in the definition of “officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis free
Member State or region”, for “Member State”, in both places where it occurs,
there were substituted  “country” ;

12.3.b.vii

point (l) were omitted;

12.3.b.viii

in point (m), in the definition of “approved veterinarian”, for “Article
14(3)(B)” there were substituted  “Article 14” ;

12.3.b.ix

in point (o), for the definition of “assembly centre” there were substituted—

12.3.b.ix.aa

for “trade” there were substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

12.3.b.ix.bb

for “for trading purposes” there were substituted  “for the purposes of export
by the third country of export” ;

12.3.b.ix.cc

for “Article 11” there were substituted  “Part 5 of Annex 1 to Regulation (EU)
No 206/2010” ;

12.3.b.x

in point (p), in the definition of “region”—

12.3.b.x.aa

for “Member State’s” there were substituted  “country’s” ;

12.3.b.x.bb

the words from “and includes at least one” to the end of point (p) were
omitted;

12.3.b.xi

point (q) were omitted.

12.4

Article 9 is to be read as if—

12.4.a

in paragraph 1—

12.4.a.i

for “A Member State which has” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, by regulations or in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out” ;

12.4.a.ii

for “its territory may submit the said programme to the Commission” there were
substituted  “the territory for which it is responsible” ;

12.4.a.iii

in the first indent, for “the Member State” there were substituted  “the
territory for which it is responsible” ;

12.4.a.iv

in the fifth indent, “the results of which must be supplied at least annually
to the Commission,” were omitted;

12.4.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

12.4.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out the additional guarantees,
general or limited, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

;

12.4.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

12.5

Article 10 is to be read as if—

12.5.a

in paragraph 1, for the words from “Where a Member State” to “appropriate
supporting documentation, setting out in particular” there were substituted
“The matters referred to in paragraph 2 are” ;

12.5.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

12.5.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out additional guarantees, general
or limited, that are required where it considers that its territory or part of
its territory is free from one of the diseases listed in Annex E(2), taking
into account the matters specified in paragraph 1.

;

12.5.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

12.6

Article 14 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

12.6.14

The approved veterinarians must be under the control of the competent
authority and must comply with the following requirements. They must—

12.6.14.a

meet the conditions for pursuing the veterinary profession;

12.6.14.b

have no financial interest or family connections with the owner of or person
responsible for the holding;

12.6.14.c

possess particular knowledge in the field of animal health as it applies to
animals of the species concerned. This means that they must—

12.6.14.c.i

regularly update their knowledge, especially as regards the relevant health
regulations,

12.6.14.c.ii

meet the requirements laid down by the competent authority to ensure the
proper functioning of any surveillance network,

12.6.14.c.iii

provide the owner of or person responsible for the holding with information
and assistance in order that all steps are taken to ensure that the holding’s
animal health status is maintained, particularly on the basis of programmes
agreed with the competent authority,

12.6.14.c.iv

ensure compliance with the requirements concerning—

12.6.14.c.iv.aa

the identification and health certification of the animals of the herd, the
animals introduced and those imported;

12.6.14.c.iv.bb

compulsory reporting of infectious animal diseases and any other risk factor
for animal health or welfare, and for human health;

12.6.14.c.iv.cc

establishing as far as possible the cause of death of animals and where they
are to be consigned;

12.6.14.c.iv.dd

the hygiene conditions of the herd and of the livestock production units.

If the proper functioning of any system of surveillance networks so requires,
each country may limit the veterinarians’ responsibility to a specific number
of holdings or to a specific geographical area.

The competent authority must draw up lists of approved veterinarians and of
the approved holdings participating in any surveillance network. If the
competent authority finds that a participant in the network no longer fulfils
the conditions set out above, it must suspend or withdraw approval, without
prejudice to any penalties that may be applied.

.

12.7

Article 16 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

12.7.16

The appropriate authority may by regulations—

12.7.16.a

modify Annex A and Chapter 1 of Annex D, in particular with regard to their
adaptation to technological and scientific developments;

12.7.16.b

modify Annexes B, C, E and Chapter 2 of Annex D; or

12.7.16.c

amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the
TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

12.8

Annex A is to be read as if—

12.8.a

in Section 1—

12.8.a.i

in paragraph 1(c), in the second subparagraph, the words from “; except in a
Member State” to the end of that subparagraph were omitted;

12.8.a.ii

in paragraph 2(c)—

12.8.a.ii.aa

in the second subparagraph, for “Member State”, in each place where it occurs,
there were substituted  “country” ;

12.8.a.ii.bb

in the third subparagraph, for “Member State” there were substituted
“country” ;

12.8.a.iii

in paragraph 3A(d)—

12.8.a.iii.aa

“in a Member State” were omitted;

12.8.a.iii.bb

for “enter into intra-Community trade” there were substituted  “be traded” ;

12.8.a.iv

in paragraph 4, for the words from “in accordance with Article 8,” to
“procedure laid down in Article 17” there were substituted  “in relation to
the occurrence of bovine tuberculosis in the relevant country, the appropriate
authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations, declare a country or part of a country to be
officially tuberculosis-free” ;

12.8.a.v

in paragraph 4(b), for “Community legislation” there were substituted
“legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain”
;

12.8.a.vi

in paragraph 5—

12.8.a.vi.aa

for “Member State”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.8.a.vi.bb

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

12.8.a.vi.cc

for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17” there were
substituted  “in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations” ;

12.8.b

in Section 2—

12.8.b.i

in paragraph 1(d), for “in accordance with the procedure at Article 17” there
were substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

12.8.b.ii

in paragraph 2(a), in the second subparagraph, for “Member State”, in each
place where it occurs, there were substituted  “country” ;

12.8.b.iii

in paragraph 2(b), in the first subparagraph, for “in accordance with the
procedure at Article 17” there were substituted  “by the appropriate
authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

12.8.b.iv

in paragraph 2(b), in the second subparagraph—

12.8.b.iv.aa

for “Member States”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“countries” ;

12.8.b.iv.bb

for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

12.8.b.v

in paragraph 2(c), in the second subparagraph, for “under the procedure set
out in Article 17” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

12.8.b.vi

in paragraph 3A, in the third subparagraph, in point (b), for “under the
procedure set out in Article 17” there were substituted  “by the appropriate
authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

12.8.b.vii

in paragraph 4(i), in the third indent, for “procedure laid down in Article
17” there were substituted  “Veterinary Medicines Regulations 2013 ” ;

12.8.b.viii

in paragraph 6A, in the second subparagraph, for “under the procedure set out
in Article 17” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

12.8.b.ix

in paragraph 7, in the words before point (a)—

12.8.b.ix.aa

for “Member State”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.8.b.ix.bb

for “according to the procedure laid down in Article 17” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

12.8.b.x

in paragraph 7(a)—

12.8.b.x.aa

for “Member State”, in the first two places where it occurs, there were
substituted  “country” ;

12.8.b.x.bb

the words from “provided that the central competent authority” to the end were
omitted;

12.8.b.xi

in paragraph 7(b), for “Community legislation” there were substituted
“legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain”
;

12.8.b.xii

in paragraph 8, in the words before point (a), for “Member State”, in both
places where it occurs, there were substituted  “country” ;

12.8.b.xiii

in paragraph 9—

12.8.b.xiii.aa

for “Member State”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.8.b.xiii.bb

for “Commission”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

12.8.b.xiii.cc

for “according to the procedure laid down in Article 17 propose that the
status be suspended or revoked” there were substituted  “in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations revoke or
suspend the status” ;

12.8.b.xiv

in paragraph 10, for “under the procedure laid down in Article 17” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

12.9

Annex B is to be read as if—

12.9.a

in point 1, in the fourth subparagraph, for “Fourth Edition, 2000, Chapter
2.3.3 (bovine tuberculosis)” there were substituted  “2021 edition , Chapter
on bovine tuberculosis” ;

12.9.b

in point 2.1.4.5, for “4 th  Edition 2002” there were substituted  “in the
10th edition, 2022 ,” ;

12.9.c

in point 2.2.5.3.4—

12.9.c.i

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

12.9.c.ii

for “entered into intra-Community trade” there were substituted  “allowed to
be traded” ;

12.9.d

in point 2.2.5.3.5, for “Member States” there were substituted  “the
appropriate authority” ;

12.9.e

in point 3—

12.9.e.i

for “Member States” there were substituted  “the appropriate authority” ;

12.9.e.ii

for “4 th  Edition, 2000, Chapter 2.3.3 (bovine tuberculosis)” there were
substituted  “2021 edition, Chapter on bovine tuberculosis” ;

12.9.f

in point 4—

12.9.f.i

in the title, “State” were omitted;

12.9.f.ii

in point 4.1—

12.9.f.ii.aa

“State” were omitted;

12.9.f.ii.bb

for “Article 6a” there were substituted  “Article 100 of the Official Controls
Regulation” ;

12.9.f.ii.cc

“respectively in their respective Member States” were omitted.

12.10

Annex C is to be read as if—

12.10.a

in point 1, in the fourth subparagraph, for “Sixth Edition, 2008, Chapter
2.4.3 (bovine brucellosis), Chapter 2.7.2 (caprine and ovine brucellosis) and
Chapter 2.8.5 (porcine brucellosis)” there were substituted  “2021 edition, in
the relevant Chapters on brucellosis” ;

12.10.b

in point 2.1.5—

12.10.b.i

for “Community” there were substituted  “WOAH” ;

12.10.b.ii

for “Veterinary Laboratories Agency (VLA), Weybridge” there were substituted
“Animal and Plant Health Agency, Weybridge laboratory” ;

12.10.c

in point 2.1.6, “in each Member State” were omitted;

12.10.d

in point 2.2.1—

12.10.d.i

for “Chapter 1.1.4” there were substituted  “Chapter on bovine brucellosis” ;

12.10.d.ii

for “Sixth Edition, 2008” there were substituted  “2021 edition,” ;

12.10.e

in point 2.2.3.3, “in accordance with Article 6(1)” were omitted;

12.10.f

in point 2.7.1—

12.10.f.i

for “Chapter 2.4.3 (bovine brucellosis)” there were substituted  “in the
Chapter on bovine brucellosis” ;

12.10.f.ii

for “Sixth Edition, 2008” there were substituted  “2021 edition,” ;

12.10.g

in point 3.1.1(a), for “intra-Community trade” there were substituted
“importation into Great Britain” ;

12.10.h

in point 3.1.2—

12.10.h.i

for “Section C1 of Chapter 2.4.3” there were substituted  “relevant section of
the Chapter on bovine brucellosis” ;

12.10.h.ii

for “Sixth Edition, 2008” there were substituted  “2021 edition,” ;

12.10.i

in point 3.2.1, in the first paragraph, for “intra-Community trade” there were
substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

12.10.j

in point 3.2.2—

12.10.j.i

for “Section B(2) of Chapter 2.4.3” there were substituted  “the relevant
section of the Chapter on bovine brucellosis” ;

12.10.j.ii

for “Sixth Edition, 2008” there were substituted  “2021 edition,” ;

12.10.k

in point 4.1—

12.10.k.i

in the words before point (a), for “Article 6a” there were substituted
“Article 100 of the Official Controls Regulation” ;

12.10.k.ii

in point (a), “in the Member State” were omitted;

12.10.k.iii

in point (d), “in the Member State” were omitted;

12.10.k.iv

in point (e), for “Community” there were substituted  “relevant” .

12.11

Annex D is to be read as if—

12.11.a

in Chapter 1—

12.11.a.i

in the title, “, Member States and Regions” were omitted;

12.11.a.ii

in Section A, in point (iii), for “Member State” there were substituted
“country” ;

12.11.a.iii

in Section B, in point (iv), for “Directive  72/462/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Directive 2004/68” ;

12.11.a.iv

in Section E, for the words before point (a) there were substituted “On the
basis of information supplied in relation to the occurrence of enzootic-
bovine-leukosis in the relevant country, the appropriate authority may declare
a country, or part of a country, to be officially enzootic-bovine-leukosis-
free in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations, if— “;

12.11.a.v

in Section E, in point (b), for “Member State”, in each place where it occurs,
there were substituted  “country” ;

12.11.a.vi

in Section F, in the words before point (a), for “Member State”, in both
places where it occurs, there were substituted  “country” ;

12.11.a.vii

in Section F, in point (a), for “Member State” there were substituted
“country” ;

12.11.a.viii

in Section F, in point (b)—

12.11.a.viii.aa

for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

12.11.a.viii.bb

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

12.11.a.ix

in Section F, in point (d)—

12.11.a.ix.aa

for “Member State”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.11.a.ix.bb

for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 17” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

12.11.a.x

in Section G—

12.11.a.x.aa

for “Member State”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“country” ;

12.11.a.x.bb

for “in accordance with the procedure in Article 17”, in both places where it
occurs, there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance
with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

12.11.b

in Chapter 2—

12.11.b.i

in the second paragraph, for the words from “, which shall be the official EU
standard” to the end of that paragraph there were substituted  “to be supplied
by a WOAH reference laboratory for enzootic bovine leukosis” ;

12.11.b.ii

in Section A, in point 2—

12.11.b.ii.aa

“State” were omitted;

12.11.b.ii.bb

for “Article 6a” there were substituted  “Article 100 of the Official Controls
Regulation” ;

12.11.b.iii

in Section A, in point 3—

12.11.b.iii.aa

“State” were omitted;

12.11.b.iii.bb

for “Article 6a” there were substituted  “Article 100 of the Official Controls
Regulation” ;

12.11.b.iv

in Section C, in point 3(b), “in accordance with Article 6(2)(c)” were
omitted.

#### Modifications to Directive 88/407

13

13.1

Directive 88/407 is modified as follows.

13.2

Article 1 is to be read as if—

13.2.a

in the first paragraph, “intra-Community trade in and” were omitted;

13.2.b

in the second paragraph, for “Community and/or national” there were
substituted  “legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of
Great Britain comprising” .

13.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

13.3.a

in the first sentence, for “Directive  72/462/EEC ” there were substituted
“Directive 2004/68” ;

13.3.b

in point (b)—

13.3.b.i

in the first indent, in the definition of “semen collection centre”, “Member
State or” were omitted;

13.3.b.ii

in the second indent, in the definition of “semen storage centre”, “Member
State or” were omitted;

13.3.c

point (c) were omitted;

13.3.d

in point (f), in the definition of “country of collection”—

13.3.d.i

“Member State or” were omitted;

13.3.d.ii

for “a Member State” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

13.3.e

in point (g), in the definition of “approved laboratory”, for “in the
territory of a Member State or third country” there were substituted  “in
Great Britain or a third country” .

13.4

Article 8 is to be read as if—

13.4.a

in paragraph 1—

13.4.a.i

for “A Member State may authorize importation of semen only” there were
substituted  “Semen may only be imported” ;

13.4.a.ii

for the words from “on a list drawn up” to the end of that paragraph, there
were substituted—

on a list set out in legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain.

The appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries
from which consignments of semen may be imported into Great Britain.

;

13.4.b

in paragraph 2—

13.4.b.i

in point (a), for “the Member States” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

13.4.b.ii

in point (b), for “mentioned in lists A and B of the International Office of
Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by the WOAH” ;

13.4.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

13.5

Article 9 is to be read as if—

13.5.a

in paragraph 1—

13.5.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “Member States shall only authorise imports
of semen” there were substituted  “Consignments of semen may only be imported
where they are” ;

13.5.a.ii

in point (a)(ii), for “thereof” there were substituted  “of Annex A” ;

13.5.a.iii

after point (a)(ii) there were inserted—

13.5.a.iii.iii

laid down in Annex B and paragraphs 2 and 3 of Annex C;

;

13.5.a.iv

in point (b), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

13.5.b

in paragraph 2—

13.5.b.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

13.5.b.ii

after “be communicated” there were inserted  “by that competent authority” ;

13.5.b.iii

for “Commission”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

13.5.b.iv

for “provide the Member States with” there were substituted  “make” ;

13.5.b.v

“and shall make them” were omitted;

13.5.c

in paragraph 3, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
18(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

13.6

Article 10 is to be read as if—

13.6.a

in paragraph 1—

13.6.a.i

for “drawn up in accordance with” there were substituted  “referred to in” ;

13.6.a.ii

after “Article 8(1)” there were inserted  “and must satisfy the relevant
conditions laid down in Annex B and paragraph 1 of Annex C” ;

13.6.b

in paragraph 2—

13.6.b.i

in the first subparagraph—

13.6.b.i.aa

for “the Member States shall not authorize the importation” there were
substituted  “consignments” ;

13.6.b.i.bb

after “semen from a third country on the list” there were inserted  “must not
be imported” ;

13.6.b.i.cc

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 18(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

13.6.b.ii

in the second subparagraph, in point (a), for “appearing on list A of the
International Office of Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by
the WOAH” ;

13.6.c

in paragraph 3—

13.6.c.i

for the words from “It may be decided” to “on a case-by-case basis, to” there
were substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations,” ;

13.6.c.ii

after “waive these conditions” there were inserted  “in relation to a third
country” ;

13.6.c.iii

for “laid down in accordance with the same procedure” there were substituted
“set out in those regulations” ;

13.6.d

for paragraph 4 there were substituted—

13.6.d.4

The appropriate authority may not oppose the admission of semen from bulls
vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease. However, where the semen was
obtained from a bull which had been vaccinated against foot-and-mouth disease
during the 12 month period prior to collection, 5 % of the semen from each
collection (with a minimum of five straws) intended for sending to Great
Britain shall be subjected, in an approved laboratory, to a virus isolation
test for foot-and-mouth disease, with negative results.

.

13.7

Article 11 is to be read as if—

13.7.a

in paragraph 1—

13.7.a.i

in the first sentence—

13.7.a.i.aa

for “Member States shall authorize the importation of semen only” there were
substituted  “Consignments of semen may only be imported” ;

13.7.a.i.bb

for “an animal health certificate” there were substituted  “the relevant
health certificate, in the form published by the appropriate authority from
time to time,” ;

13.7.a.ii

in point (a), for the words from “one of the official languages” to the end
there were substituted  “English” ;

13.7.b

paragraph 2 were omitted.

13.8

Article 17 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

13.8.17

The appropriate authority may by regulations—

13.8.17.a

modify Annex A, in particular to adapt it to advances in technology;

13.8.17.b

modify Annexes B and C; or

13.8.17.c

amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the
TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

13.9

Annex A is to be read as if, in Chapter 2—

13.9.a

in point 1(f), in point (i)—

13.9.a.i

in the first paragraph, in the second indent, for “intra-Community trade”
there were substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

13.9.a.ii

in the first paragraph, in the third indent—

13.9.a.ii.aa

for “the subject of intra-Community trade” there were substituted  “imported
into Great Britain” ;

13.9.a.ii.bb

for the second instance of “intra-Community trade” there were substituted
“importation into Great Britain” ;

13.9.b

in point 1(f), in point (vii)—

13.9.b.i

for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

13.9.b.ii

for “Commission and other Member States” there were substituted  “appropriate
authority” ;

13.9.c

in point 2(e), in point (vi)—

13.9.c.i

for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

13.9.c.ii

for “Commission and other Member States” there were substituted  “appropriate
authority” .

13.10

Annex B is to be read as if—

13.10.a

in Chapter 1—

13.10.a.i

in point 1—

13.10.a.i.aa

in point (a), for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

13.10.a.i.bb

in point (d)(iv), for “Article 2.3.5.3 of the International Animal Health
Code” there were substituted  “the Chapter on IBR/IPV in the WOAH Terrestrial
Animal Health Code , 2021 edition” ;

13.10.a.ii

in point 2, for “a laboratory approved by the Member State” there were
substituted  “an approved laboratory” ;

13.10.a.iii

in point 5, the final sentence were omitted;

13.10.b

in Chapter 2—

13.10.b.i

in point 2, for “a laboratory approved by the Member State” there were
substituted  “an approved laboratory” ;

13.10.b.ii

in point 3, in both paragraphs, for “the subject of intra-Community trade”
there were substituted  “imported into Great Britain” .

13.11

Annex C is to be read as if—

13.11.a

for the title, there were substituted  “Conditions which semen imported into
Great Britain must satisfy” ;

13.11.b

in point 3—

13.11.b.i

in the words before point (a), for “for intra-Community trade” there were
substituted  “intended for importation into Great Britain” ;

13.11.b.ii

in point (b), for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted
“Great Britain” .

#### Modifications to Directive 89/556

14

14.1

Directive 89/556 is modified as follows.

14.2

Article 1 is to be read as if, in paragraph 1, for “intra-Community trade in
and” were omitted.

14.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

14.3.a

in the first paragraph, for “Directive  72/462/EEC ” there were substituted
“Directive 2004/68” ;

14.3.b

in the second paragraph, in point (e), in the definition of “country of
collection”—

14.3.b.i

“Member State or” were omitted;

14.3.b.ii

for “a Member State” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

14.3.c

in the second paragraph, point (f) were omitted.

14.4

Article 7 is to be read as if—

14.4.a

in paragraph 1, for the words from “on a list drawn up” to the end, there were
substituted—

on a list set out in legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain.

The appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries
from which consignments of embryos may be imported into Great Britain.

;

14.4.b

in paragraph 2—

14.4.b.i

in point (a), for “the Member States” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

14.4.b.ii

in point (b), for “mentioned in lists A and B of the International Office of
Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by the World Organisation
for Animal Health (WOAH)” ;

14.4.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

14.5

Article 8 is to be read as if—

14.5.a

in paragraph 1—

14.5.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “Member States shall only authorize imports
of embryos” there were substituted  “Consignments of embryos may only be
imported into Great Britain where they are” ;

14.5.a.ii

in point (b), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

14.5.b

in paragraph 2—

14.5.b.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

14.5.b.ii

after “be communicated” there were inserted  “by that competent authority” ;

14.5.b.iii

for “Commission”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

14.5.b.iv

for “provide the Member States with” there were substituted  “make” ;

14.5.b.v

“and shall make them” were omitted;

14.5.c

in paragraph 3, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
18(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

14.6

Article 9 is to be read as if—

14.6.a

in paragraph 1—

14.6.a.i

in the first subparagraph—

14.6.a.i.aa

in the words before point (a), for “drawn up in accordance with” there were
substituted  “referred to in” ;

14.6.a.i.bb

after point (a) there were inserted—

14.6.a.i.bb.aa

come from donor animals that satisfy the conditions laid down in Annex B;

;

14.6.a.i.cc

in point (b), for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 18”
there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

14.6.a.ii

in the second subparagraph, in point (a), for “appearing on list A of the
International Office of Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by
the WOAH” ;

14.6.b

in paragraph 2—

14.6.b.i

for “Annexes A and G to Directive  64/432/EEC ” there were substituted
“Annexes A and D to Directive 64/432” ;

14.6.b.ii

for the words from “Under the procedure” to “derogations”, there were
substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure
set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, derogate” ;

14.6.b.iii

for “may be decided upon” there were substituted  “in relation to a third
country” .

14.7

Article 10 is to be read as if—

14.7.a

in paragraph 1—

14.7.a.i

in the first sentence, for “an animal health certificate” there were
substituted  “the relevant health certificate, in the form published by the
appropriate authority from time to time” ;

14.7.a.ii

in point (a), for the words from “the official language” to the end, there
were substituted  “English” ;

14.7.b

paragraph 2 were omitted.

14.8

Article 16 is to be read as if for the existing text there were substituted—

14.8.16

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify the Annexes or amend the
modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the TARP (ALF)
Regulations 2022.

.

14.9

Annex A is to be read as if, in Chapter 2—

14.9.a

in point 1(h), for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 18”
there were substituted  “in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations” ;

14.9.b

in point 1(m), for “In accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 18 a
protocol shall be drawn up before the date provided for in Article 20” there
were substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, draw up a
protocol” ;

14.9.c

the second paragraph of point 1(m) were omitted;

14.9.d

in point 1(n), for “shall be decided in accordance with the procedure laid
down in Article 18” there were substituted  “may be decided by the appropriate
authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” .

14.10

Annex B is to be read as if, in point 1(a), “within Community territory or”
were omitted.

#### Modifications to Directive 90/429

15

15.1

Directive 90/429 is modified as follows.

15.2

Article 1 is to be read as if, in paragraph 1, “intra-Community trade in and”
were omitted.

15.3

Article 2 is to be read as if, in the first paragraph, for “Article 2 of
Directives  64/432/EEC ,  72/462/EEC ,  80/407/EEC  and  90/425/EEC ” there
were substituted  “Article 2 of Directives 64/432, 88/407 and 2004/68, and
Article 3 of the Official Controls Regulation” .

15.4

Article 7 is to be read as if—

15.4.a

in paragraph 1—

15.4.a.i

for “A Member State may authorize importation of semen only” there were
substituted  “Semen may only be imported” ;

15.4.a.ii

for the words “on a list drawn up” to the end there were substituted—

on a list set out in legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain.

The appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries
from which consignments of semen may be imported into Great Britain.

;

15.4.b

in paragraph 2—

15.4.b.i

in subparagraph (a), for “the Member States” there were substituted  “Great
Britain” ;

15.4.b.ii

in subparagraph (b), for “mentioned in lists A and B of the International
Office of Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by the World
Organisation for Animal Health (WOAH)” ;

15.4.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

15.5

Article 8 is to be read as if—

15.5.a

in paragraph 1—

15.5.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “Member States shall only authorize imports
of semen” there were substituted  “Semen may only be imported where it is” ;

15.5.a.ii

in point (b), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

15.5.b

in paragraph 2—

15.5.b.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

15.5.b.ii

after “be communicated” there were inserted  “by that competent authority” ;

15.5.b.iii

for “Commission”, in each place where it occurs, there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

15.5.b.iv

for “provide the Member States with” there were substituted  “make” ;

15.5.b.v

“and shall make them” were omitted;

15.5.c

in paragraph 3, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
18(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority in accordance
with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

15.6

Article 9 is to be read as if—

15.6.a

in paragraph 2—

15.6.a.i

in the first subparagraph—

15.6.a.i.aa

“Member States shall not authorize the importation of” were omitted;

15.6.a.i.bb

after “third country on the list” there were inserted  “must not be imported”
;

15.6.a.i.cc

for “under the procedure laid down in Article 18” there were substituted  “by
the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

15.6.a.ii

in the second subparagraph, in point (a), for “appearing on list A of the
International Office of Epizootic Diseases” there were substituted  “listed by
the WOAH” ;

15.6.b

in paragraph 3—

15.6.b.i

for “Chapter II and the corresponding Annexes” there were substituted
“Annexes A, B and C” ;

15.6.b.ii

for the words from “It may be decided” to “on a case-by-case basis, to” there
were substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations,” ;

15.6.b.iii

after “waive these conditions” there were inserted  “in relation to a third
country” ;

15.6.c

paragraph 4 were omitted.

15.7

Article 10 is to be read as if—

15.7.a

in paragraph 1—

15.7.a.i

for the first sentence there were substituted  “Consignments of semen may only
be imported on submission of the relevant health certificate, in the form
published by the appropriate authority from time to time, drawn up and signed
by an official veterinarian of the third country of collection.” ;

15.7.a.ii

in point (a), for the words from “one of the official languages” to the end
there were substituted  “English” ;

15.7.b

paragraph 2 were omitted.

15.8

Article 11 is to be read as if—

15.8.a

in paragraph 1, in the first subparagraph—

15.8.a.i

in the words before the first indent—

15.8.a.i.aa

for “Member States shall ensure that each” there were substituted  “Each” ;

15.8.a.i.bb

for “the Community”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

15.8.a.i.cc

for “is subjected” there were substituted  “must be subjected” ;

15.8.a.ii

in the second indent, for “provided for” there were substituted  “referred to”
;

15.8.a.iii

in the fourth indent, for “animal” there were substituted  “relevant” ;

15.8.b

in paragraph 1, in the second and third subparagraphs, for “the Community”, in
both places where it occurs, there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

15.8.c

in paragraph 2, for “Member State of destination” there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

15.8.d

paragraph 3 were omitted.

15.9

Article 12 is to be read as if—

15.9.a

for “the Community by a Member State” there were substituted  “Great Britain
by the appropriate authority” ;

15.9.b

for “Member State”, in the second place where it occurs, there were
substituted  “country” .

15.10

Article 17 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

15.10.17

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify the Annexes to this
Directive or amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by
Part 5 of the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022 to adapt them to advances in
technology.

.

15.11

Annex A is to be read as if, in Chapter 2, in point 6(g), for “will be
established under the procedure laid down in Article 19” there were
substituted  “may be established by the appropriate authority in accordance
with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

15.12

Annex B is to be read as if—

15.12.a

in Chapter 1, in point 1, in point 1.3—

15.12.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “relevant Union legislation” there were
substituted  “relevant legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain” ;

15.12.a.ii

in the fourth subparagraph, for the words from “Annex III to Commission
Decision 2008/185/EC ” to the end there were substituted  “the Chapter on
Aujeszky’s disease, in the WOAH Manual of Diagnostic Tests and Vaccines for
Terrestrial Animals , 2021 edition,” ;

15.12.b

in Chapter 1, point 7 were omitted;

15.12.c

in Chapter 2, in point 3—

15.12.c.i

for “the subject of intra-Union trade”, in both places where it occurs, there
were substituted  “imported into Great Britain” ;

15.12.c.ii

for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” .

15.13

Annex C is to be read as if—

15.13.a

in the heading, for “intra-Union trade” there were substituted  “importation
into Great Britain” ;

15.13.b

in point 1(e), for “defined under the provisions of Union legislation” there
were substituted  “subject to animal health controls” ;

15.13.c

in point 3—

15.13.c.i

in the words before point (a), for “intra-Union trade” there were substituted
“importation into Great Britain” ;

15.13.c.ii

in point (b), for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

15.13.d

in point 4—

15.13.d.i

for “Member States” there were substituted  “The appropriate authority” ;

15.13.d.ii

the second paragraph were omitted.

#### Modifications to Directive 91/68

16

16.1

Directive 91/68 is modified as follows.

16.2

Article 1 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

Articles 2 and 6 of, and Annexes A, B, C and D to, this Directive only apply
so far as necessary for the purposes of giving effect to provisions which
contain references to them in Directive 92/65 and  Regulation (EU) No 206/2010
.

.

16.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

16.3.a

in point (a), for “Article 2 of Directive  90/425/EEC  and in Article 2 of
Directive  91/628/EEC  of 19 November 1991 on the protection of animals during
transport and amending Directives  90/425/EEC  and  91/496/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Article 3 of the Official Controls Regulation and in Article 2
of Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005 ” ;

16.3.b

in point (b)—

16.3.b.i

point (7) were omitted;

16.3.b.ii

in point (10), in the definition of “approved assembly centre”, for “intra-
Community trade” there were substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

16.3.b.iii

points (11) and (12) were omitted;

16.3.b.iv

in point (13), in the definition of “transporter”, for “Article 5 of Directive
91/628/EEC ” there were substituted  “Article 6 of Regulation  (EC) No 1/2005
” ;

16.3.b.v

in point (14), in the definition of “region”—

16.3.b.v.aa

for “Member State’s” there were substituted  “country’s” ;

16.3.b.v.bb

the words from “and includes at least one” to the end were omitted.

16.4

Article 6 is to be read as if—

16.4.a

in point (a)(i), in the third indent, for “recognized under the procedure set
out in Article 15” there were substituted  “authorised for use by the
appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations” ;

16.4.b

in point (a)(iii), for “intra-Community trade” there were substituted
“importation into Great Britain” ;

16.4.c

in point (c), in the third indent, for “to be recognized under the procedure
laid down in Article 15” there were substituted  “approved by the appropriate
authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

16.4.d

point (d) were omitted.

16.5

Article 7 is to be read as if—

16.5.a

in paragraph 1—

16.5.a.i

in the words before the first indent—

16.5.a.i.aa

for “A Member State which has” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, by regulations or in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out” ;

16.5.a.i.bb

“may submit said programme to the Commission” were omitted;

16.5.a.ii

in the first indent, for “the Member State” there were substituted  “the
territory for which it is the appropriate authority” ;

16.5.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

16.5.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out the additional guarantees,
general or limited, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

;

16.5.c

paragraphs 3 and 4 were omitted.

16.6

Article 8 is to be read as if—

16.6.a

in paragraph 1—

16.6.a.i

for “Where a Member State considers that its territory or part of its
territory”, there were substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations, set out additional guarantees, general or limited, that are
required where it considers that the territory for which it is the appropriate
authority, or part of that territory,” ;

16.6.a.ii

for “it shall present to the Commission appropriate supporting documentation,
setting out” there were substituted  “taking into account” ;

16.6.b

paragraphs 2 to 4 were omitted.

16.7

Article 14 is to be read as if for the existing text there were substituted—

16.7.14

16.7.14.1

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify Annexes A, B, C and D or
amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the
TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

16.7.14.2

The rules for the implementation of this Directive may be prescribed by
regulations made by the appropriate authority.

.

16.8

Annex A is to be read as if—

16.8.a

in Chapter 1, in Section 1—

16.8.a.i

in point A(1)(b), for “procedure laid down in Article 15 of this Directive”
there were substituted  “Veterinary Medicines Regulations 2013” ;

16.8.a.ii

in point A(2), for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.a.iii

in point C(2), in the first paragraph—

16.8.a.iii.aa

for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.a.iii.bb

for “Commission and the other Member States” there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

16.8.a.iv

in point C(2), in the second paragraph, in the words before point (a), “of the
Member State” were omitted;

16.8.a.v

in point C(2), in the second paragraph, in point (a)—

16.8.a.v.aa

for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.a.v.bb

for “Commission and the other Member States” there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

16.8.a.vi

in point C(3)—

16.8.a.vi.aa

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

16.8.a.vi.bb

for “under the procedure laid down in Article 15” there were substituted  “in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

16.8.a.vi.cc

for “in accordance with the same procedure” there were substituted  “in those
regulations” ;

16.8.b

in Chapter 1, in Section 2—

16.8.b.i

in the title, for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.b.ii

in the first paragraph—

16.8.b.ii.aa

for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.b.ii.bb

for “under the procedure laid down in Article 15” there were substituted  “by
the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations” ;

16.8.b.iii

in point (1)(c), “under the procedure set out in Article 15 of this Directive”
were omitted;

16.8.b.iv

in point (2)(i)—

16.8.b.iv.aa

in the first indent, for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.b.iv.bb

in the second indent, for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

16.8.b.iv.cc

in the third indent, for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Article 15” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

16.8.c

in Chapter 2, in point A—

16.8.c.i

in point (A)(1)(b), for “procedure laid down in Article 15 of this Directive”
there were substituted  “Veterinary Medicines Regulations 2013” ;

16.8.c.ii

in point (D)(2), “until the date laid down for holdings to qualify as
brucellosis-free in accordance with the eradication plans adopted under
Decision 90/242/EEC ” were omitted;

16.8.c.iii

in point (D)(2)(a), for “Article 4(1)(a) of this Directive” there were
substituted  “Regulation (EU) No 206/2010” ;

16.8.c.iv

in point (D)(2)(c)(ii), for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in
Article 15 of this Directive” there were substituted  “under the Veterinary
Medicines Regulations 2013” .

16.9

Annex C is to be read as if—

16.9.a

for “Annex to  Decision 90/242/EEC ” there were substituted  “Chapter on
brucellosis in the WOAH Manual of Diagnostic Tests and Vaccines for
Terrestrial Animals, 2021 edition” ;

16.9.b

for “recognized in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 15 of
this Directive” there were substituted  “authorised for use by the appropriate
authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

16.9.c

after “national” there were inserted  “reference” .

16.10

Annex D is to be read as if—

16.10.a

after “national” there were inserted  “reference” ;

16.10.b

for “Central Veterinary Laboratory, Weybridge, Surrey, United Kingdom” there
were substituted  “WOAH reference laboratory for brucellosis” .

#### Modifications to Directive 92/65

17

17.1

Directive 92/65 is modified as follows.

17.2

Article 1 is to be read as if—

17.2.a

in the first paragraph—

17.2.a.i

“trade in and” were omitted;

17.2.a.ii

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain from third
countries” ;

17.2.a.iii

for “specific Community acts” there were substituted  “legislation” ;

17.2.b

in the second paragraph, for “Regulation  (EEC) No 3626/82 ” there were
substituted  “Council Regulation  (EC) No 338/97  on the protection of species
of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein ” ;

17.2.c

in the third paragraph, for the words from “the national rules” to the end
there were substituted  “legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain that applies in relation to pet animals” .

17.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

17.3.a

paragraph 1(a) were omitted;

17.3.b

in paragraph 1(b), in the definition of “animals”, for “Directives  64/432/EEC
,  90/426/EEC ,  90/539/EEC ,  91/67/EEC ,  91/68/EEC ,  91/492/EEC  and
91/493/EEC ” there were substituted  “Directives 64/432, 91/68, 2009/156 and
2009/158, and the Aquatic Animal Health Regulations” ;

17.3.c

after paragraph 1(d), there were inserted—

17.3.c.e

‘pet animal’ has the meaning given in Article 3 of  Regulation (EU) No
576/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013 on the
non-commercial movement of pet animals .

;

17.3.d

in paragraph 2, for “Article 2 of Directives  64/432/EEC ,  91/67/EEC  and
90/529/EEC ” there were substituted  “Article 2 of Directive 64/432,
regulation 3 of the Aquatic Animal Health Regulations and Article 2 of
Directive 2009/158” .

17.4

The title of Chapter 2 is to be read as if for that title there were
substituted  “General requirements applicable to imports for the purposes of
Articles 16, 17 and 18” ;

17.5

Article 3 is to be read as if—

17.5.a

in the first paragraph—

17.5.a.i

for “The Member States shall ensure that the trade referred to in Article 1,
first paragraph, is not” there were substituted  “The importation of animals
referred to in Article 16 into Great Britain must not be” ;

17.5.a.ii

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

17.5.b

the second paragraph were omitted.

17.6

Article 4 is to be read as if—

17.6.a

for the words from the beginning to “Article 12(1) and (3) of this Directive”
there were substituted, “For the purposes of applying Article 9 of the
Official Controls Regulation, the animals referred to in Articles 5 to 10 of
this Directive may, without prejudice to Article 13 and Article 24, only be
imported into Great Britain if they satisfy conditions at least equivalent to
those laid down in Articles 5 to 10 and come from holdings or businesses
subject to the Official Controls Regulation”;

17.6.b

in the first indent, for “Article 3(3) of Directive  90/425/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Articles 9 and 10 of the Official Controls Regulation” ;

17.6.c

in the second indent—

17.6.c.i

for “competent authority” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

17.6.c.ii

for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

17.6.d

in the third indent—

17.6.d.i

after “national measures” there were inserted  “in Great Britain” ;

17.6.d.ii

for “a given Member State” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

17.6.d.iii

for “a decision under Articles 15(2)” there were substituted  “a guarantee
under Article 15(1)” .

17.6.e

in the fourth indent—

17.6.e.i

for “trade” there were substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

17.6.e.ii

“or a commercial document provided for in Articles 5 to 11” were omitted.

17.7

Article 5 is to be read as if—

17.7.a

in paragraph 1—

17.7.a.i

for “Member States shall ensure that trade in” there were substituted  “The
importation into Great Britain of” ;

17.7.a.ii

for “competent authorities of the Member States” there were substituted
“relevant competent authorities” ;

17.7.a.iii

for “veterinary certificate corresponding to the specimen in Annex E,” there
were substituted  “health certificate, as provided for in Article 18,” ;

17.7.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

17.7.b.2

An approved body, institute or centre may acquire, by way of derogation from
paragraph 1, apes belonging to an individual if the acquisition is authorised
by the appropriate authority.

.

17.8

Article 6 is to be read as if—

17.8.a

in paragraph A—

17.8.a.i

in the first paragraph—

17.8.a.i.aa

“Member States shall ensure that” were omitted;

17.8.a.i.bb

for “Directives  64/432/EEC ,  90/426/EEC  and  91/68/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Directives 64/432, 91/68 and 2009/156” ;

17.8.a.i.cc

for “be the subject of trade only” there were substituted  “only be imported
into Great Britain” ;

17.8.a.ii

in point (1)(a), for “in accordance with Article 3(1)(c) of Directive
90/425/EEC ” there were substituted  “appropriately for the species concerned
in such a way that the original or transit holding can be traced” ;

17.8.a.iii

after point (1)(a), there were inserted—

17.8.a.iii.aa

must be subject to—

17.8.a.iii.aa.i

an identity check; and

17.8.a.iii.aa.ii

a clinical inspection before departure, within the period of time specified in
the health certificate, by an official veterinarian and show no clinical signs
of disease;

;

17.8.a.iv

in point (1)(c), for “Directive  85/511/EEC  and Article 4a of Directive
64/432/EEC ” there were substituted  “the Foot-and-Mouth Disease Orders and
the Diseases of Swine Regulations 2014” ;

17.8.a.v

for point (1)(d) there were substituted—

17.8.a.v.d

must not come from a holding, or have been in contact with animals from a
holding, which is for animal health reasons subject to a prohibition or other
animal health measures affecting the species involved, or is situated in an
area subject to such measures or prohibitions, and the holding must be free of
any such measures or prohibitions for the period of time before dispatch that
is specified in the health certificate;

;

17.8.a.vi

after point (1)(d), there were inserted—

17.8.a.vi.da

must have been kept at that holding permanently since birth or have remained
on the holding for the period of time before dispatch that is specified in the
health certificate;

17.8.a.vi.db

must not, at any time between leaving the holding of origin and arriving at
destination, have come into contact with cloven-hoofed animals other than
animals that have the same health status;

;

17.8.a.vii

for point (1)(e) there were substituted—

17.8.a.vii.e

must be accompanied by a health certificate as provided for in Article 18,
certifying that the following requirements are met—

17.8.a.vii.e.i

that at the time of examination, the animals do not show any clinical sign of
any disease to which they are susceptible, and

17.8.a.vii.e.ii

the animals come from an officially tuberculosis-free, officially brucellosis-
free or brucellosis-free herd or holding not subject to swine fever
restrictions or from a holding where the animals were subjected with negative
results to one or more of the tests laid down in Article 6(2)(b) of Directive
92/65.

;

17.8.b

in paragraph A, in point (2)—

17.8.b.i

in point (a)—

17.8.b.i.aa

for “Directive  64/432/EEC  or Directive  91/68/EEC ” there were substituted
“Directive 64/432 or Directive 91/68” ;

17.8.b.i.bb

for “Article 3(2)(c), (d), (f), (g) and (h) of Directive  64/432/EEC  or
Article 3 of Directive  91/68/EEC ” there were substituted  “Annex A to
Directive 64/432 and Annex A to Directive 91/68” ;

17.8.b.ii

in point (c)—

17.8.b.ii.aa

“in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26,” were omitted;

17.8.b.ii.bb

after “may be adopted” there were inserted  “by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

17.8.b.iii

after point (c), there were inserted—

17.8.b.iii.d

animals must—

17.8.b.iii.d.i

be continuously resident on the holding of origin for at least 30 days, or
since birth if the animals are younger than 30 days of age;

17.8.b.iii.d.ii

not come from a holding into which ungulates have been introduced during at
least 21 days prior to dispatch;

17.8.b.iii.d.iii

not come from a holding into which ungulates imported from a third country
have been introduced during at least 30 days prior to dispatch;

17.8.b.iii.d.iv

not be animals that cannot be marketed in the third country of export for
public and animal health reasons;

17.8.b.iii.d.v

after leaving the holding of origin, be consigned directly to the destination
in Great Britain;

17.8.b.iii.e

by way of derogation from points (d)(ii) and (iii), the animals referred to in
those points may be authorised by the appropriate authority for importation
into Great Britain, if they have been completely isolated from all other
animals on the holding;

17.8.b.iii.f

by way of derogation from point (d)(v), animals may, after leaving the holding
of origin and before arrival at destination in Great Britain, transit through
only one approved assembly centre situated in the third country of origin;

17.8.b.iii.g

without prejudice to any additional guarantees that may be required in
accordance with Articles 7 and 8 of Directive 91/68, animals must meet the
requirements in—

17.8.b.iii.g.i

Article 6 of Directive 91/68, and either

17.8.b.iii.g.ii

Chapter 1.D of Annex A to Directive 91/68, in order to be introduced on to an
officially brucellosis-free holding; or

17.8.b.iii.g.iii

Chapter 2.D of Annex A to Directive 91/68, in order to be introduced on to a
brucellosis-free holding.

;

17.8.c

in paragraph A, in point (3)—

17.8.c.i

in point (a)—

17.8.c.i.aa

for “prohibition measures” there were substituted  “animal health prohibition
or restriction measures” ;

17.8.c.i.bb

“in accordance with Article 9a of Directive  64/432/EEC ” were omitted;

17.8.c.ii

in point (b), for “any of the restrictions laid down in Directive  80/217/EEC
” there were substituted  “animal health prohibition or restriction measures”
;

17.8.c.iii

in point (c)—

17.8.c.iii.aa

for “Directive  64/432/EEC ”, in the first place where it occurs, there were
substituted  “the Chapter on porcine brucellosis of the WOAH Terrestrial
Animal Health Code of the World Organisation, 2021 edition ” ;

17.8.c.iii.bb

for “Directive  64/432/EEC ”, in the second place where it occurs, there were
substituted  “Directive 2004/68” ;

17.8.d

in paragraph A, in point (4)—

17.8.d.i

for “in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 26” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

17.8.d.ii

the words from “These decisions” to the end were omitted;

17.8.e

paragraph B were omitted.

17.9

Article 7 is to be read as if—

17.9.a

in paragraph A—

17.9.a.i

for the words before point (1) there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority must ensure that birds other than those referred to in Directive
2009/158,  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 139/2013  laying down
animal health conditions for imports of certain birds into the Union and the
quarantine conditions thereof  and Commission Decision 2007/25 as regards
certain protection measures in relation to highly pathogenic avian influenza
and movements of pet birds accompanying their owners into the Community  may
be imported into Great Britain only if they meet the following requirements—”
;

17.9.a.ii

the second paragraph of point (1)(b) were omitted;

17.9.a.iii

for point (1)(c) there were substituted—

17.9.a.iii.c

if they have been imported from a third country, have been quarantined or
isolated in the holding to which they were taken after they entered the
territory of Great Britain if so required in accordance with the relevant
legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain;

;

17.9.b

in paragraph A, in point (2)—

17.9.b.i

in the second paragraph of point (a), for “recognized under the procedure
provided for in Article 26” there were substituted  “may be set out by the
appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations and” ;

17.9.b.ii

in the first paragraph of point (b), for “in accordance with Article 3(1)(c)
of Directive  90/425/EEC ” there were substituted  “appropriately in such a
way that the original holding, centre or organisation can be traced” ;

17.9.b.iii

in the second paragraph of point (b), for “under the procedure provided for in
Article 26” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

17.9.b.iv

in point (c), for “commercial document” there were substituted  “health
certificate, as provided for in Article 18,” ;

17.9.c

paragraph B were omitted.

17.10

Article 8 is to be read as if—

17.10.a

in the words before point (a)—

17.10.a.i

“Member States shall ensure that” were omitted;

17.10.a.ii

for “the subject of trade” there were substituted  “imported into Great
Britain” ;

17.10.b

in point (a), at the beginning, insert  “they” ;

17.10.c

the third paragraph of point (a) were omitted;

17.10.d

in point (b), for the words from “corresponding to the specimen in Annex E” to
the end there were substituted  “, as provided for in Article 18” ;

17.10.e

after point (b) there were inserted—

The requirements applied to bees ( Apis melifera ), or equivalent
requirements, may be applied to bumble bees by the appropriate authority by
regulations.

.

17.11

Article 9 is to be read as if—

17.11.a

in paragraph 1, in the words before point (a)—

17.11.a.i

“Member States shall ensure that” were omitted;

17.11.a.ii

for “the subject of trade” there were substituted  “imported into Great
Britain” ;

17.11.b

in paragraph 2—

17.11.b.i

for “Member States which require” there were substituted  “Where an
appropriate authority requires” ;

17.11.b.ii

for “their territory may require animals being sent to them” there were
substituted  “the territory for which it is responsible, it may require
animals sent to that territory” ;

17.11.b.iii

for “corresponding to the specimen in Annex E,” there were substituted  “, as
provided for in Article 18, that is” ;

17.11.b.iv

the final sentence of the second subparagraph were omitted;

17.11.c

in paragraph 3—

17.11.c.i

for “Ireland and the United Kingdom may require the submission of a” there
were substituted  “The relevant” ;

17.11.c.ii

for “guaranteeing” there were substituted  “must guarantee” .

17.12

Article 10 is to be read as if—

17.12.a

in paragraph 1, for “Member States shall ensure that there is a prohibition on
trade in mink and foxes which” there were substituted  “The importation into
Great Britain of mink and foxes is prohibited where those animals have” ;

17.12.b

in paragraph 2—

17.12.b.i

in the words before point (a), for “the subject of trade” there were
substituted  “imported into Great Britain” ;

17.12.b.ii

in point (a), for “Article 6 and, where applicable, in Article 7” there were
substituted  “Article 10(1)(a) to (d) and, where applicable, in Article 12(a)”
;

17.12.b.iii

in point (c)—

17.12.b.iii.aa

after “heath certificate” there were inserted  “, as provided for in Article
18,” ;

17.12.b.iii.bb

point (i) were omitted;

17.12.c

for paragraph 4 there were substituted—

17.12.c.4

The Rabies (Importation of Dogs, Cats and Other Mammals) Order 1974  applies
to all animals covered by this Directive that are susceptible to rabies and
cannot be shown to have been born on the holding of origin and kept in
captivity since birth, other than dogs, cats and ferrets that comply with
paragraph 2.

;

17.12.d

paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 were omitted.

17.13

Article 11 is to be read as if—

17.13.a

in paragraph 1—

17.13.a.i

“The Member States shall ensure that,” were omitted;

17.13.a.ii

for “are the subject of trade” there were substituted  “may be imported into
Great Britain” ;

17.13.b

in paragraph 2, in the fourth indent, for “another Member State by a health
certificate corresponding to a specimen to be determined in accordance with
the procedure referred to in Article 26” there were substituted  “Great
Britain by a health certificate, as provided for in Article 18” ;

17.13.c

in paragraph 3—

17.13.c.i

in the first subparagraph, in the first indent, for “competent authority of
the Member State and satisfying the conditions to be established in Annex D(I)
in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26” there were
substituted  “relevant competent authority and satisfying conditions at least
equivalent to those established in Annex D(I)” ;

17.13.c.ii

in the first subparagraph, in the third indent, for “another Member State by a
health certificate corresponding to a specimen to be determined in accordance
with the procedure referred to in Article 26” there were substituted  “Great
Britain by a health certificate, as provided for in Article 18” ;

17.13.c.iii

in the third subparagraph, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to
in Article 26” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

17.13.d

in paragraph 4—

17.13.d.i

in the first subparagraph, for “competent authority of the Member State
concerned” there were substituted  “competent authority” ;

17.13.d.ii

in the second subparagraph—

17.13.d.ii.aa

“Each Member State shall draw up and keep up to date” were omitted;

17.13.d.ii.bb

for “and shall make it available” there were substituted  “must be drawn up,
kept up to date, and made available by the appropriate authority” ;

17.13.d.ii.cc

“the other Member States and to” were omitted;

17.13.d.iii

in the third subparagraph, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to
in Article 26” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

17.13.e

in paragraph 5—

17.13.e.i

in the first subparagraph—

17.13.e.i.aa

“and the specimen health certificates” were omitted;

17.13.e.i.bb

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

17.13.e.ii

the last sentence were omitted.

17.14

Article 13 is to be read as if—

17.14.a

for paragraph 1 there were substituted—

17.14.a.1

Consignments of the following animals or germinal products that are imported
into Great Britain from bodies, institutes or centres referred to in Article
17(2)(b) to bodies, institutes or centres that have been approved in Great
Britain in accordance with paragraph 2, must meet the requirement in paragraph
1A—

17.14.a.1.a

species susceptible to the diseases listed in Annex A;

17.14.a.1.b

species susceptible to the diseases listed in Annex B, where the appropriate
authority applies the guarantee provided for in Articles 14 and 15;

17.14.a.1.c

semen, ova or embryos of the animals referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b).

;

17.14.b

after paragraph 1, insert—

17.14.b.1A

The relevant consignment must be accompanied during transport by a health
certificate, as provided for in Article 18, which must be completed by the
official veterinarian and must specify that the animals, semen, ova or embryos
come from a body, institute or centre approved in accordance with conditions
at least equivalent to those set out in Annex C.

;

17.14.c

in paragraph 2—

17.14.c.i

in point (a)—

17.14.c.i.aa

after “To be approved” there were inserted  “in Great Britain” ;

17.14.c.i.bb

after “institutes or centres shall” there were inserted  “comply with the
requirements contained in Annex C and” ;

17.14.c.i.cc

“of the Member State” were omitted;

17.14.c.ii

in point (c), for “point 3” there were substituted  “point 6” ;

17.14.c.iii

in point (d), in the second subparagraph—

17.14.c.iii.aa

“Each Member State shall draw up and keep up to date” were omitted;

17.14.c.iii.bb

for “and shall make it available” there were substituted  “must be drawn up,
kept up to date, and made available by the appropriate authority” ;

17.14.c.iii.cc

“to the other Member States and” were omitted;

17.14.c.iv

in point (d), in the third subparagraph, for “in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 26” there were substituted  “by the appropriate
authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

17.14.c.v

point (e) were omitted.

17.15

Article 14 is to be read as if—

17.15.a

in paragraph 1—

17.15.a.i

in the words before the first indent—

17.15.a.i.aa

for “Where a Member State draws up or has drawn up” there were substituted
“The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out” ;

17.15.a.i.bb

“it may present the programme to the Commission” were omitted;

17.15.a.ii

the ninth indent were omitted;

17.15.b

for paragraph 2, there were substituted—

17.15.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out the additional guarantees,
general or limited, which may be required for imports into Great Britain.

;

17.15.c

paragraph (3) were omitted.

17.16

Article 15 is to be read as if—

17.16.a

in paragraph 1—

17.16.a.i

for “Where a Member State considers that its territory or part of its
territory” there were substituted  “The appropriate authority may by
regulations set out additional guarantees, general or limited, that are
required where it considers that the territory, or part of the territory, for
which it is the appropriate authority” ;

17.16.a.ii

for “it shall present to the Commission appropriate supporting documentation,
setting out” there were substituted  “taking into account” ;

17.16.b

paragraphs 2 and 3 were omitted.

17.17

The title of Chapter 3 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” .

17.18

Article 16 is to be read as if the second and third paragraphs were omitted.

17.19

Article 17 is to be read as if—

17.19.a

in paragraph 2—

17.19.a.i

in the words before point (a)—

17.19.a.i.aa

for “animals and semen” there were substituted  “animals, and the semen” ;

17.19.a.i.bb

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

17.19.a.ii

in point (b), in the words before point (i), for “the health certificate
corresponding to a specimen to be drawn up in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 26” there were substituted  “a health certificate, as
provided for in Article 18” ;

17.19.a.iii

in point (b)(i)—

17.19.a.iii.aa

in the first indent, at the beginning there were inserted “come from countries
that”;

17.19.a.iii.bb

in the second indent, after “Annex C” there were inserted  “or from registered
premises as appropriate” ;

17.19.a.iv

in point (b)(ii), in the first paragraph—

17.19.a.iv.aa

“to be” were omitted;

17.19.a.iv.bb

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 26” there were
substituted  “established by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

17.19.a.v

in point (b)(ii), the second paragraph, “specimen” were omitted;

17.19.b

for paragraph 3, there were substituted—

17.19.b.3

The appropriate authority may by regulations—

17.19.b.3.a

establish the list of third countries or parts of third countries able to
provide the appropriate authority with guarantees equivalent to those provided
for in Chapter 2 in relation to animals, semen, ova and embryos;

17.19.b.3.b

adopt specific animal health requirements, in particular for the protection of
Great Britain from certain exotic diseases, or guarantees equivalent to those
provided for in this Directive.

The specific requirements and equivalent guarantees established for third
countries in accordance with this paragraph may not be more favourable than
those provided for in Chapter 2.

The appropriate authority may also establish a list of approved centres or
teams, as referred to in the first indent of paragraph 2 of Article 11 and the
first indent of paragraph 3 of that Article, situated in one of the third
countries appearing on the list referred to in point (a) of this paragraph and
for which the competent authority is able to give the guarantees provided for
in Article 11(2) and (3).

The approval of centres or teams must be immediately suspended or withdrawn by
the competent authority of the third country where it no longer complies with
the conditions referred to in Article 11(2) and (3) and the appropriate
authority must be immediately informed.

The appropriate authority must publish any new and updated lists that it
receives from the competent authority of the third country, in accordance with
the third and fourth subparagraphs, to make them available to the public for
information purposes.

The appropriate authority may by regulations adopt detailed rules for the
application of the third to fifth subparagraphs.

;

17.19.c

in paragraph 4—

17.19.c.i

in point (a)—

17.19.c.i.aa

in the first indent, for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great
Britain” ;

17.19.c.i.bb

for the second indent there were substituted—

— pursuant to—

17.19.c.i.bb.i

Article 7 of Directive 2002/99, in relation to meat from ungulates, rabbit
meat, farmed game meat and poultry meat;

17.19.c.i.bb.ii

Article 7 of Directive 2004/68; or

17.19.c.i.bb.iii

in the case of other animals covered by this Directive, any decision set out
in retained EU direct legislation made under Article 26 of Directive
92/65/EEC  for this purpose, as it had effect immediately before IP completion
day and without modification by Part 5 of the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022, or
any other decision which may be taken by the appropriate authority in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations for this purpose that takes account of their state of health;

;

17.19.c.ii

in point (b), “in accordance with Article 3(2) of Directive  72/462/EEC ” were
omitted;

17.19.d

paragraphs 5 and 6 were omitted.

17.20

Article 18 is to be read as if—

17.20.a

in paragraph 1—

17.20.a.i

in the words before the first indent—

17.20.a.i.aa

“Member States shall ensure that the” were omitted;

17.20.a.i.bb

for “are imported into the Community” there were substituted  “may be imported
into Great Britain” ;

17.20.a.ii

in the first indent, for “certificate” there were substituted  “relevant
health certificate, in the form published by the appropriate authority from
time to time,” ;

17.20.a.iii

the second paragraph of the first indent were omitted;

17.20.a.iv

in the second indent, for “Directives  90/675/EEC  and  91/496/EEC ” there
were substituted  “the Official Controls Regulation” ;

17.20.a.v

in the third indent—

17.20.a.v.aa

for “Community territory” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

17.20.a.v.bb

for “Directive  91/628/EEC ” there were substituted  “Council Regulation  (EC)
1/2005  on the protection of animals during transport and related operations ”
;

17.20.a.vi

in the fourth indent, for “under the procedure laid down in Article 26” there
were substituted  “by the appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure
set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

17.20.b

in paragraph 2, “for which such requirements have not been adopted at
Community level” were omitted.

17.21

Article 19 is to be read as if—

17.21.a

in the words before point (a), for “under the procedure laid down in Article
26” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

17.21.b

in point (a), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

17.21.c

in point (b), “Community” were omitted.

17.22

Article 21 is to be read as if—

17.22.a

“Any specimens of certificates applicable to trade and” were omitted;

17.22.b

for “trade in” there were substituted  “import into Great Britain” ;

17.22.c

for “under the procedure laid down in Article 26” there were substituted  “by
the appropriate authority by regulations” .

17.23

Article 22 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

17.23.22

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify the Annexes to this
Directive or amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by
Part 5 of the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

17.24

Article 23 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

17.24.23

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out special requirements if
appropriate, by way of derogation from Chapter 2, for the movement of circus
and fairground animals, and for the importation into Great Britain of animals,
semen, ova and embryos intended for zoos.

.

17.25

Article 24 is to be read as if—

17.25.a

in paragraph 1—

17.25.a.i

the words from “The Member States shall be” to “territory of the” were
omitted;

17.25.a.ii

after “territory of a third country” there were inserted  “may enter the
relevant constituent territory of Great Britain subject” ;

17.25.b

paragraph 2 is omitted.

17.26

Annex C is to be read as if—

17.26.a

in point 1—

17.26.a.i

in point (c), after “country” there were inserted  “or territory” ;

17.26.a.ii

in point (g)—

17.26.a.ii.aa

in point (i), for “Article 14(3)(B) of Directive  64/432/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Article 14 of Directive 64/432” ;

17.26.a.ii.bb

in point (ii), in the third indent, for “Community legislation” there were
substituted  “the relevant legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain” ;

17.26.a.ii.cc

in point (iii), for “the Member State concerned” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

17.26.a.ii.dd

in point (v), for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation
in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

17.26.a.iii

in point (h), for “Article 5 of Directive  86/609/EEC ” there were substituted
“the Animals (Scientific Procedures) Act 1986 ” ;

17.26.b

in point 4, “, in that Member State or another Member State” were omitted;

17.26.c

in point 5—

17.26.c.i

for “a Member State” there were substituted  “the appropriate authority” ;

17.26.c.ii

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “animal health legislation
in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

17.26.d

in point 6—

17.26.d.i

in point (b)—

17.26.d.i.aa

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

17.26.d.i.bb

for “trade in” there were substituted  “the importation of” ;

17.26.d.ii

in point (d), for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority”
.

17.27

Annex D is to be read as if—

17.27.a

in Chapter 1, in section 2, in point 2.2(f), the words from “each Member
State” to the end were omitted;

17.27.b

in Chapter 2, in section 1—

17.27.b.i

in point 1.2—

17.27.b.i.aa

“a Member State or” were omitted;

17.27.b.i.bb

for “Directive  90/426/EEC ” there were substituted  “Directive 2009/156” ;

17.27.b.ii

in point 1.5, for “Article 12 of Regulation  (EC) No 882/2004  of the European
Parliament and of the Council” there were substituted  “Article 37 of the
Official Controls Regulation” ;

17.27.b.iii

in point 1.8—

17.27.b.iii.aa

for “Article 4 or 5 of Directive  90/426/EEC ” there were substituted
“Article 4 or 5 of Directive 2009/156” ;

17.27.b.iii.bb

for “Annex A to Directive  90/426/EEC ” there were substituted  “Annex 1 to
Directive 2009/156” ;

17.27.c

in Chapter 2, in section 2—

17.27.c.i

in point 4, for “Member State” there were substituted  “country” ;

17.27.c.ii

in point 6, after “approved” there were inserted  “official” ;

17.27.c.iii

in point 8(d), for “Articles 4, 5 and 6 of Directive  91/68/EEC ” there were
substituted  “Article 7 of Directive 2004/68, and Article 6 of and Annex A to,
Directive 91/68” ;

17.27.c.iv

in point 9—

17.27.c.iv.aa

for “subject to a prohibition on animal health grounds in accordance with
Article 4 of Directive  91/68/EEC ” there were substituted  “, situated in an
area which for health reasons is subject to a prohibition or restriction
affecting the species involved in accordance with legislation of the relevant
third country that is at least equivalent to animal and public health
legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain,”
;

17.27.c.iv.bb

for “subject for trade” there were substituted  “imported” ;

17.27.c.iv.cc

for “official veterinarian in accordance with Directive  91/68/EEC ” there
were substituted  “competent authority” ;

17.27.d

in Chapter 3, in section 1—

17.27.d.i

in point 1.1, for “ Directive 2001/82/EC  of the European Parliament and of
the Council” there were substituted  “the Veterinary Medicines Regulations
2013” ;

17.27.d.ii

in point 1.4, in the words before point (a), “to be subject for trade” were
omitted;

17.27.d.iii

in point 1.4(a), for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

17.27.e

in Chapter 3, in section 2—

17.27.e.i

in point 2.2, for the words from “Regulation  (EC) No 854/2004 ” to “human
consumption” there were substituted  “the Official Controls Regulation” ;

17.27.e.ii

in point 6.1—

17.27.e.ii.aa

“to be subject for trade” were omitted;

17.27.e.ii.bb

for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

17.27.f

in Chapter 4—

17.27.f.i

in point 1, for “the relevant Directives on intra-Union trade in” there were
substituted  “legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of
Great Britain concerning” ;

17.27.f.ii

in point 2—

17.27.f.ii.aa

for “Directive  64/432/EEC ” there were substituted  “Directive 2004/68” ;

17.27.f.ii.bb

for “that Directive” there were substituted  “Directive 64/432” ;

17.27.f.iii

in point 4, in the words before point 4.1, for “Directive  90/426/EEC ” there
were substituted  “Directive 2009/156” .

17.28

Annex F is to be read as if for that Annex there were substituted—

  Directive 64/432 (concerning the import into Great Britain of bovine animals
and swine).

  Directive 88/407 (concerning the import into Great Britain of deep-frozen
semen of domestic animals of the bovine species).

  Directive 89/556 (concerning the import into Great Britain of embryos of
domestic animals of the bovine species).

  Directive 90/429 (concerning the import into Great Britain of semen of
domestic animals of the porcine species).

  Directive 91/68 (concerning the import into Great Britain of ovine and
caprine animals).

  Directive 2004/68 (concerning the import into Great Britain of certain live
ungulate animals).

  The Aquatic Animal Health Regulations (concerning the import into Great
Britain of aquaculture animals and products).

  Directive 2009/156 (concerning the import into Great Britain of equidae).

  Directive 2009/158 (concerning the import into Great Britain of poultry and
hatching eggs).

.

#### Modifications to Directive 92/118

18

18.1

Directive 92/118 is modified as follows.

18.2

Article 1 is to be read as if—

18.2.a

in the first paragraph, for “trade in and imports into the Community of” to
the end there were substituted—

the importation into Great Britain of—

18.2.a.a

products of animal origin (including trade samples taken from such products)
not subject to—

18.2.a.a.i

in respect of animal health, requirements laid down in Directive 2002/99,

18.2.a.a.ii

in respect of public health, requirements laid down in Regulation  (EC) No
853/2004 , and

18.2.a.b

pathogenic agents.

;

18.2.b

in the second paragraph—

18.2.b.i

for “nor” there were substituted  “and” ;

18.2.b.ii

“trade or” were omitted.

18.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

18.3.a

in paragraph 1—

18.3.a.i

point (a) were omitted;

18.3.a.ii

in point (c), in the definition of “serious transmissible disease”, for “all
diseases covered by Directive  82/894/EEC ” there were substituted  “the
diseases listed in Annex 1A” ;

18.3.a.iii

in point (d), in the definition of “pathogenic agents”, for “Directive
90/677/EEC ” there were substituted  “the Veterinary Medicines Regulation
2013” ;

18.3.a.iv

in point (f), in the definition of “processed animal protein intended for
human consumption”—

18.3.a.iv.aa

after “means greaves,” there were inserted  “as defined in point 7.6 of Annex
1 to Regulation  (EC) 853/2004 , and” ;

18.3.a.iv.bb

for “referred to in Article 2(b) of Directive  77/99/EEC ” there were
substituted  “which are treated as “ meat products ” for the purposes of that
Regulation” ;

18.3.a.v

after point (f) there were inserted—

18.3.a.v.g

establishment  has the meaning given in Article 2 of Regulation  (EC) No
852/2004 ;

18.3.a.v.h

holding  means an agricultural establishment or premises of a dealer in which
the animals referred to in points 1.2 to 1.8 of Annex 1 to the Official
Controls Regulation are held or regularly kept or, in relation to equidae, a
holding as defined in Article 2(a) of Directive 2009/156;

18.3.a.v.i

  placing on the market  has the meaning given in Article 3 of Regulation
(EC) No 178/2002 .

;

18.3.b

in paragraph 2, for “Article 2 of Directives  89/662/EEC ,  90/425/EEC  and
90/675/EEC ” there were substituted  “Article 3 of the Official Controls
Regulation” .

18.4

Article 3 is to be read as if—

18.4.a

the words before the first indent were omitted;

18.4.b

in the first indent—

18.4.b.i

“trade in and” were omitted;

18.4.b.ii

for “are not” there were substituted  “must not be” ;

18.4.b.iii

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

18.4.c

in the second indent—

18.4.c.i

for the words from “whose placing on the market” to “ Decision 81/651/EEC ,
of” there were substituted  “that is authorised in Great Britain to be placed
on the market may not be imported into Great Britain, until a decision has
been taken on” ;

18.4.c.ii

after “focus of disease or” there were inserted  “become” ;

18.4.c.iii

after “a risk to human health” there were inserted  “, including whether any
special requirements should be imposed prior to import, in accordance with the
first paragraph of Article 15.” ;

18.4.d

for the third indent there were substituted—

— the following products of animal origin may not be imported from third
countries unless they meet the relevant animal health requirements in this
Directive—

18.4.d.i

meat extracts, meat powder and powered rind, treated as “ meat products ” for
the purposes of Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004 ;

18.4.d.ii

rendered animal fat as defined in point 7.5 of Annex I to Regulation  (EC) No
853/2004 ;

18.4.d.iii

greaves as defined in point 7.6 of Annex I to Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004 ;

18.4.d.iv

salted or dried blood, salted or dried blood plasma, treated as “ meat
products ” for the purposes of Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004 ;

18.4.d.v

treated stomachs, bladders and intestines as defined in point 7.9 of Annex I
to Regulation  (EC) No 853/2004 .

.

18.5

The title of Chapter 2 is to be read as if for that title there were
substituted  “Guarantees applicable to imports for the purposes of Article 9”
.

18.6

Article 4 is to be read as if—

18.6.a

in the words before point (1)—

18.6.a.i

omit “Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that, for the
purposes of applying Article 4(1) of Directive  89/662/EEC  and Article
4(1)(a) of Directive  90/425/EEC ,”;

18.6.a.ii

for “the particular provisions to be adopted” there were substituted  “any
provisions adopted” ;

18.6.a.iii

for “the subject of trade” there were substituted  “imported into Great
Britain” ;

18.6.b

in point (2)(a), in the seventh indent—

18.6.b.i

for “trade” there were substituted  “importation into Great Britain” ;

18.6.b.ii

for “commercial document” there were substituted  “health certificate, as
provided for in Article 10(2)(c),” .

18.7

Article 5 is to be read as if—

18.7.a

in the first paragraph—

18.7.a.i

“Member States shall ensure that every necessary measure is taken to guarantee
that” were omitted;

18.7.a.ii

for “are not dispatched for the purposes of trade” there were substituted
“must not be imported into Great Britain” ;

18.7.a.iii

for “movements or trade” there were substituted  “imports” ;

18.7.a.iv

for “the Member States” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

18.7.a.v

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

18.7.b

in the second paragraph—

18.7.b.i

for “movement” there were substituted  “import” ;

18.7.b.ii

for “under the procedure laid down in Article 18” there were substituted  “by
the appropriate authority by regulations” .

18.8

Article 6 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

18.8.6

Importation of pathogenic agents may be subject to rules set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations.

.

18.9

The title of Chapter 3 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” .

18.10

Article 10 is to be read as if—

18.10.a

in paragraph 2—

18.10.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “the Community” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

18.10.a.ii

in point (a), for “to be drawn up and updated in accordance with the procedure
provided for in Article 18” there were substituted  “authorised by legislation
in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain. The
appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries from
which the products covered by this Directive may be imported” ;

18.10.a.iii

in point (b)—

18.10.a.iii.aa

“Community” were omitted;

18.10.a.iii.bb

for “the procedure laid down in Article 18” there were substituted  “Article
127(3)(e) of the Official Controls Regulation” ;

18.10.a.iv

in point (c)—

18.10.a.iv.aa

for “an animal health or public health certificate corresponding to a specimen
to be drawn up under the procedure provided for in Article 18” there were
substituted  “the relevant health certificate, in the form published by the
appropriate authority from time to time” ;

18.10.a.iv.bb

for “any other” there were substituted  “the” ;

18.10.a.iv.cc

“recognized under the same procedure” were omitted;

18.10.b

in paragraph 3—

18.10.b.i

in the words before point (a), for “Under the procedure provided for in
Article 18” there were substituted  “The appropriate authority may by
regulations set out” ;

18.10.b.ii

in point (a)—

18.10.b.ii.aa

“shall be established” were omitted;

18.10.b.ii.bb

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

18.10.b.ii.cc

the final subparagraph were omitted;

18.10.b.iii

in point (c), “shall be established” were omitted;

18.10.c

in paragraph 4, for “The decisions provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 must be
taken on the basis of evaluation and, if appropriate, the opinion of the
Scientific Veterinary Committee,” there were substituted  “Any decisions or
regulations made under paragraphs 2 and 3 must be made on the basis of an
evaluation” ;

18.10.d

paragraphs 5 and 6 were omitted.

18.11

Article 11 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

18.11.11

The appropriate authority may by regulations stipulate specific animal health
requirements for imports into Great Britain of, and the nature and content of
accompanying documents for, products referred to in Annex 1 intended for
experimental laboratories.

.

18.12

Article 13 is to be read as if—

18.12.a

in paragraph 1—

18.12.a.i

“Member States may, by issuing an appropriate licence, permit” were omitted;

18.12.a.ii

after “trade samples” there were inserted  “may be permitted provided that
they are accompanied by an authorisation issued by the appropriate authority”
;

18.12.b

in paragraph 2—

18.12.b.i

for “licence” there were substituted  “authorisation” ;

18.12.b.ii

for “Directive  90/675/EEC ” there were substituted  “the Official Controls
Regulation” ;

18.12.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

18.13

Article 15 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

18.13.15

The appropriate authority may by regulations adopt any new Annex laying down
specific requirements for other products capable of presenting a real risk of
spreading serious transmissible diseases or a real risk to human health.

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify the Annexes where the need
arises in compliance with, where applicable, the general principles set out in
the second indent of Article 3, or amend the modifications made to any Annex
to this Directive by Part 5 of the TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

18.14

Annex 1 is to be read as if—

18.14.a

in Chapter 2, point A is omitted;

18.14.b

in Chapter 5—

18.14.b.i

in the words before point 1, “Trade in and” were omitted;

18.14.b.ii

points 1 and 2 were omitted;

18.14.b.iii

in point 3—

18.14.b.iii.aa

“where imports are concerned,” were omitted;

18.14.b.iii.bb

for “Directive  72/462/EEC ” there were substituted  “Directive 2002/99” ;

18.14.c

in Chapter 6, in point 1—

18.14.c.i

in the words before point A, “trade in and” were omitted;

18.14.c.ii

point A were omitted;

18.14.c.iii

in point B—

18.14.c.iii.aa

the words before point (1) (“as regards imports”) were omitted;

18.14.c.iii.bb

in point (1)(a), for “Directive  80/215/EEC ” there were substituted
“Directive 2002/99” ;

18.14.c.iii.cc

in point (2), for “inspection” there were substituted  “control” ;

18.14.c.iii.dd

in point (3), for “for release for free circulation in Community territory of
consignments of processed animal protein, to prove” there were substituted
“as regards imports into Great Britain of consignments of processed animal
protein, to proving” ;

18.14.c.iv

point C were omitted.

18.14.d

in Chapter 6, in point 2—

18.14.d.i

for “Member States may carry out” there were substituted  “Where” ;

18.14.d.ii

after “random sampling” there were inserted  “has been carried out” ;

18.14.d.iii

for “negative. Where during one of these checks” there were substituted
“negative, and” ;

18.14.e

in Chapter 6, in point 3—

18.14.e.i

“Member States must keep” were omitted;

18.14.e.ii

after “undergone sampling” there were inserted  “must be kept by the
appropriate authority” ;

18.14.f

in Chapter 6, in point 4—

18.14.f.i

for “Article 3(3) of Directive  89/662/EEC ” there were substituted  “Article
51(1)(c) of the Official Controls Regulation” ;

18.14.f.ii

for the words from “approved under the procedure” to the end there were
substituted  “designated as border control posts under Article 59(1) of the
Official Controls Regulation” ;

18.14.g

in Chapter 6, in point 5, for the words from “it is either:” to the end there
were substituted  “control measures must be taken in accordance with Article
66 of the Official Controls Regulation” ;

18.14.h

in Chapter 7, in Section 1—

18.14.h.i

point A were omitted;

18.14.h.ii

in point B(1)—

18.14.h.ii.aa

in the first sentence, “pursuant to Council Directive  72/462/EEC ” were
omitted;

18.14.h.ii.bb

in the second sentence, for “Directive  91/494/EEC ” there were substituted  “
Commission Regulation (EC) No 798/2008  laying down a list of third countries,
territories, zones or compartments from which poultry and poultry products may
be imported into and transit through the Community and the veterinary
certification requirements ” ;

18.14.h.iii

in point B(2)—

18.14.h.iii.aa

“, including those referred to in Council Directive  77/99/EEC ” were omitted;

18.14.h.iii.bb

for “Directive  72/462/EEC ” there were substituted  “Directive 2002/99” ;

18.14.i

in Chapter 7, in Section 3, for “are to be adopted, where necessary, in
accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 18” there were substituted
“may be set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

18.14.j

in Chapter 9, in point (1)—

18.14.j.i

“Member States shall authorize the importation into the Community of” were
omitted;

18.14.j.ii

for “annexed to  Decision 79/542/EEC  from which the importation of fresh meat
of the species concerned is permitted” there were substituted  “referred to in
Article 10(2)(a) of this Directive may be imported into Great Britain” ;

18.14.k

Chapter 11 were omitted;

18.14.l

after Annex 1, there were inserted—

  SERIOUS TRANSMISSIBLE DISEASES

############## Diseases of terrestrial animals

18.14.l.A

List A.1—

18.14.l.A.1

African horse sickness.

18.14.l.A.2

African swine fever.

18.14.l.A.3

Anthrax.

18.14.l.A.4

Avian influenza (HPAI in poult nd captive birds).

18.14.l.A.5

Bluetongue.

18.14.l.A.6

Bovine spongiform encephalopat

18.14.l.A.7

Classical swine fever.

18.14.l.A.8

Contagious bovine pleuropneum

18.14.l.A.9

Dourine.

18.14.l.A.10

Equine encephalomyelitis of the following types—

18.14.l.A.10.a

Eastern equine encephalomyelitis

18.14.l.A.10.b

Japanese encephalitis;

18.14.l.A.10.c

Venezuelan equine encephalomye

18.14.l.A.10.d

West Nile fever;

18.14.l.A.10.e

Western equine encephalomyelitis.

18.14.l.A.11

Equine infectious anaemia.

18.14.l.A.12

Foot-and-mouth disease.

18.14.l.A.13

Glanders.

18.14.l.A.14

Lumpy skin disease.

18.14.l.A.15

Newcastle disease.

18.14.l.A.16

Peste des petits ruminants.

18.14.l.A.17

Infection with rabies virus.

18.14.l.A.18

Rift Valley fever.

18.14.l.A.19

Rinderpest.

18.14.l.A.20

Sheep pox and goat pox.

18.14.l.A.21

Small hive beetle infestation ( Aethina tumida ).

18.14.l.A.22

Swine vesicular disease.

18.14.l.A.23

Tropilaelaps  infestation of honey bees.

18.14.l.A.24

Vesicular stomatitis.

List A.2—

18.14.l.A.1

Bovine brucellosis.

18.14.l.A.2

Bovine tuberculosis.

18.14.l.A.3

Enzootic bovine leucosis.

18.14.l.A.4

Caprine and ovine brucellosis (excluding  Brucella ovis ).

############## Diseases of aquaculture animals

18.14.l.B

18.14.l.B.1

Epizootic haematopoietic necrosis.

18.14.l.B.2

Infectious haematopoietic necrosis.

18.14.l.B.3

Infectious salmon anaemia (ISA); infection with genotype HPR-deleted of the
genus Isavirus (ISAV).

18.14.l.B.4

Infection with   Perkinsus marinus .

18.14.l.B.5

Infection with  Mikrocytos mackini .

18.14.l.B.6

Infection with  Marteilia refringens .

18.14.l.B.7

Infection with  Bonamia ostreae .

18.14.l.B.8

Infection with  Bonamia exitiosa .

18.14.l.B.9

Koi herpes virus disease.

18.14.l.B.10

Taura syndrome.

18.14.l.B.11

Viral haemorrhagic septicaemia.

18.14.l.B.12

White spot disease.

18.14.l.B.13

Yellowhead disease.

.

#### Modifications to Directive 2002/99

19

19.1

Directive 2002/99 is modified as follows.

19.2

Article 1 is to be read as if—

19.2.a

in the first paragraph, for “and distribution within the Community and the
introduction from third countries” there were substituted  “and introduction
from third countries, for importation into Great Britain,” ;

19.2.b

in the second paragraph, for “Directives  89/662/EEC  and  97/78/EC  and the
Directives” there were substituted  “the Official Controls Regulation and the
legislation” .

19.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

19.3.a

in the first paragraph, for “ Directive 97/78/EC ” there were substituted
“the Official Controls Regulation” ;

19.3.b

in point 2, in the definition of “introduction”—

19.3.b.i

for the words from “one of the territories listed in Annex I to  Directive
97/78/EC ” to the end there were substituted—

Great Britain to present those goods to Customs on import, in accordance with
section 34 of the Taxation (Cross-Border Trade) Act 2018 , and place them
under the control of an HMRC officer for the purpose of—

19.3.b.i.a

the customs procedures referred to in section 3 of that Act; or

19.3.b.i.b

where a temporary storage declaration has been made in accordance with
regulation 8(2) of the Customs (Import Duty) (EU Exit) Regulations 2018 —

19.3.b.i.b.i

making a Customs declaration in accordance with paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 1
to the Taxation (Cross-Border Trade) Act 2018; or

19.3.b.i.b.ii

deciding whether the goods must be exported or destroyed.

;

19.3.b.ii

after point (2), there were inserted—

19.3.b.ii.2A

“ HMRC officer ” has the meaning given in section 37(1) of the Taxation
(Cross-Border Trade) Act 2018.

;

19.3.b.iii

points 3 and 4 were omitted.

19.4

The title of Chapter 1 is to be read as if for “WITHIN THE COMMUNITY” there
were substituted  “INTENDED FOR IMPORTATION INTO GREAT BRITAIN” .

19.5

Article 3 is to be read as if—

19.5.a

in paragraph 1—

19.5.a.i

for “Member States shall” there were substituted  “Food business operators
must” ;

19.5.a.ii

for “, processing and distribution of” there were substituted  “and processing
of” ;

19.5.a.iii

for “within the Community” there were substituted  “intended for importation
into Great Britain” ;

19.5.a.iv

for “food business operators” there were substituted  “they” ;

19.5.b

in paragraph 2, for “Community legislation” there were substituted
“legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain”
;

19.5.c

in paragraph 3—

19.5.c.i

in point (a), for “the rules” there were substituted  “rules equivalent to the
legislation” ;

19.5.c.ii

in point (c), for “Directive  91/67/EEC ” there were substituted  “the Aquatic
Animal Health Regulations and Regulation  (EC) 1251/2008 ” .

19.6

Article 4 is to be read as if—

19.6.a

in paragraph 1—

19.6.a.i

in the words before point (i)—

19.6.a.i.aa

“Member states may authorise” were omitted;

19.6.a.i.bb

after “suspected of being infected,” there were inserted  “may be authorised”
;

19.6.a.ii

in point (iv)—

19.6.a.ii.aa

for “Member State” there were substituted  “competent authority of the third
country” ;

19.6.a.iii

in the second subparagraph, for the words from “in accordance with Annexes II
and III(1)” to the end there were substituted—

in accordance with—

19.6.a.iii.a

any detailed rules adopted by the appropriate authority by regulations or

19.6.a.iii.b

where detailed rules are yet to be adopted under point (a), Annex 3 or any
relevant detailed rules under any enactment in force in the relevant
constituent territory of Great Britain.

;

19.6.b

in paragraph 2—

19.6.b.i

for “Directive  91/67/EEC ” there were substituted  “the Aquatic Animal Health
Regulations and Regulation  (EC) 1251/2008 ” ;

19.6.b.ii

for the words from “in accordance with further conditions” to the end there
were substituted—

in accordance with—

19.6.b.ii.a

any further conditions adopted by the appropriate authority by regulations or

19.6.b.ii.b

where conditions are yet to be adopted under subparagraph (a), any further
conditions set out under any enactment in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain.

;

19.6.c

in paragraph 3—

19.6.c.i

in the first subparagraph, for “in certain situations, in accordance with the
procedure referred to in Article 12(2)” there were substituted  “by the
appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations” ;

19.6.c.ii

in the second subparagraph—

19.6.c.ii.aa

for “the Community shall” there were substituted  “Great Britain may” ;

19.6.c.ii.bb

for “be adopted in accordance with the same procedure” there were substituted
“also be adopted by the appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure
set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

19.7

Article 7 is to be read as if—

19.7.a

“Member States shall take measures to ensure that” were omitted;

19.7.b

for “are” there were substituted  “may be” ;

19.7.c

after “third countries” there were inserted  “into Great Britain” ;

19.7.d

for “, processing and distribution of” there were substituted  “and processing
of” ;

19.7.e

“in the Community” were omitted.

19.8

Article 8 is to be read as if—

19.8.a

in the heading, for “Community rules” there were substituted  “national
legislation” ;

19.8.b

in the words before paragraph 1, for “the following shall be established in
accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2)” there were
substituted  “the requirements in paragraphs 1 to 5 may be established by the
appropriate authority by regulations” ;

19.8.c

in paragraph 1—

19.8.c.i

in the second sentence—

19.8.c.i.aa

for “a Community” there were substituted  “an” ;

19.8.c.i.bb

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “the relevant legislation
in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

19.8.c.ii

in the third sentence, in point (c), for “the Community” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” ;

19.8.c.iii

in the third sentence, in point (f)—

19.8.c.iii.aa

“Community” were omitted;

19.8.c.iii.bb

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

19.8.c.iv

in the third sentence, in point (g), for “the Community” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” ;

19.8.d

paragraph 2 were omitted;

19.8.e

in paragraph 3, “shall be established in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 12(2)” were omitted;

19.8.f

in paragraph 4, “shall be established in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 12(2)” were omitted;

19.8.g

in paragraph 5, “, may be established in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 12(2)” were omitted.

19.9

Article 9 is to be read as if—

19.9.a

for the title there were substituted  “Health certificates” ;

19.9.b

in paragraph 1—

19.9.b.i

for the words from “A veterinary certificate” to “Annex IV” there were
substituted  “A relevant health certificate, in the form published by the
appropriate authority from time to time, that meets the requirements of
Article 3 of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/628 concerning model
official certificates for certain animals and goods ” ;

19.9.b.ii

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

19.9.c

in paragraph 2—

19.9.c.i

in the words before point (a), for “veterinary” there were substituted
“health” ;

19.9.c.ii

in point (a), for “the Community legislation” there were substituted
“legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain”
;

19.9.c.iii

in point (b), for “established in accordance with the procedure referred to in
Article 12(2)” there were substituted  “established or applied under Article
8(4), or applied by other relevant legislation in force in the relevant
constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

19.9.d

in paragraph 3—

19.9.d.i

for “Documents” there were substituted  “Health certificates” ;

19.9.d.ii

“Community” were omitted;

19.9.d.iii

after “animal health legislation” there were inserted  “in force in the
relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

19.9.e

in paragraph 4—

19.9.e.i

for “In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 12(2)” there were
substituted  “The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure
set out by the appropriate authority by regulations,” ;

19.9.e.ii

in point (a), for “provisions may be made” there were substituted  “make
provision” ;

19.9.e.iii

point (b) were omitted;

19.9.e.iv

in point (c)—

19.9.e.iv.aa

at the beginning of that sentence, there were inserted “establish”;

19.9.e.iv.bb

“may be established” were omitted.

19.10

Article 11 is to be read as if for that Article there were substituted—

19.10.11

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify the Annexes or amend the
modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the TARP (ALF)
Regulations 2022 in order to take account in particular of—

19.10.11.i

scientific opinions and scientific knowledge, particularly concerning new risk
assessments;

19.10.11.ii

technical developments; and

19.10.11.iii

the setting of safety targets for animal health.

.

19.11

Annex 1 is to be read as if for that Annex there were substituted.

  Diseases of relevance to products of animal origin intended for importation
into Great Britain and for which control measures have been introduced under
animal health legislation       Disease Legislation   Classical swine fever
The Diseases of Swine Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1894 ), implementing
Council Directive 2001/89 on Community measures for the control of classical
swine fever African swine fever The Diseases of Swine Regulations 2014 ( S.I.
2014/1894 ), implementing Council  Directive 2002/60/EC  laying down specific
provisions for the control of African swine fever Rinderpest (Cattle Plague)
The Cattle Plague Order of 1928 ( S.I. 1928/206 ) Sheep and goat plague (Peste
des Petits ruminants) The Specified Diseases (Notification and Slaughter)
Order 1992 ( S.I. 1992/3159 ) and the Specified Diseases (Notification) Order
1996 ( S.I. 1996/2628 ) Swine vesicular disease The Diseases of Swine
Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/1894 ), implementing Council Directive
91/119/EEC  introducing general Community measures for the control of certain
animal diseases and specific measures relating to swine vesicular disease
Foot-and-mouth disease The Foot-and-Mouth Disease Orders, implementing Council
Directive 2003/85/EC  on Community measures for the control of foot-and-mouth
disease Avian influenza The Avian Influenza and Influenza of Avian Origin in
Mammals (England) (No. 2) Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/2702 ), the Avian Influenza
and Influenza of Avian Origin in Mammals (Wales) (No 2) Order 2006 ( S.I.
2006/2927 (W, 262))  and the Avian Influenza and Influenza of Avian Origin in
Mammals (Scotland) Order 2006 ( S.S.I. 2006/336 ), the Avian Influenza
(Preventive Measures) (England) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/2701 ), the Avian
Influenza (Preventive Measures) (Wales) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/2803 (W.
242) ) and the Avian Influenza (Preventive Measures) (Scotland) Order 2007 (
S.S.I. 2007/69 ), implementing Council  Directive 2005/94/EC  on Community
measures for the control of avian influenza Newcastle disease The Diseases of
Poultry Orders, implementing Council Directive  92/66/EEC  introducing
Community measures for the control of Newcastle disease Aquaculture diseases
The Aquatic Animal Health Regulations and Regulation (EC) 1251/2008

.

19.12

Annex 3 is to be read as if, in the first table concerning meat, in the column
entitled “Meat Treatment”, in the eighth row of that table concerning point
“(g)”, for “Article 12(2) procedure following an opinion by the relevant
Scientific Committee” there were substituted  “appropriate authority, in
regulations made under Article 4(1)(iv)(a)” .

#### Modifications to Directive 2004/68

20

20.1

Directive 2004/68 is modified as follows.

20.2

Article 1 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were substituted
“Great Britain” .

20.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

20.3.a

point (a) were omitted;

20.3.b

in point (b), in the definition of “authorised third country”, for “the
Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.3.c

after point (b), there were inserted—

      “ border control post ” has the meaning given in Article 3 of the
Official Controls Regulation;

20.3.d

in point (c), in the definition of “official veterinarian”, for the words from
“shall mean a” to the end there were substituted  “has the meaning given in
Article 3 of the Official Controls Regulation” .

20.4

The title of Chapter 2 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” .

20.5

Article 3 is to be read as if—

20.5.a

in paragraph 1—

20.5.a.i

in the first subparagraph, for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great
Britain” ;

20.5.a.ii

in the first subparagraph, for the words from “or lists to be drawn up” to the
end of that sentence there were substituted—

authorised by legislation in force in the relevant constituent territory of
Great Britain.

The appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries
from which the animals covered by this Directive may be imported into Great
Britain.

;

20.5.a.iii

in the second subparagraph, for “it may be decided in accordance with the
procedure referred to in Article 14(2)” there were substituted  “the
appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, provide” ;

20.5.a.iv

in the third subparagraph, for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great
Britain” ;

20.5.b

in paragraph 2—

20.5.b.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.5.b.ii

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations,” .

20.6

Article 4 is to be read as if—

20.6.a

in point (a), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.6.b

in point (d), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.6.c

in point (f), for “Commission and the Member States” there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

20.6.d

in point (h)—

20.6.d.i

“Community” were omitted;

20.6.d.ii

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” .

20.7

Article 6 is to be read as if—

20.7.a

in the title, for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.7.b

in paragraph 1—

20.7.b.i

in the first sentence—

20.7.b.i.aa

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.7.b.i.bb

for “laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2)”
there were substituted  “set out by the appropriate authority by regulations”
;

20.7.b.ii

in point (d), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.7.b.iii

in point (e), for “intra-Community trade” there were substituted  “imports
into Great Britain” ;

20.7.c

in paragraph 2, for “laid down in Community legislation” there were
substituted  “set out in legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain” ;

20.7.d

in paragraph 3, for “Community” there were substituted  “appropriate
authority” .

20.8

Article 7 is to be read as if—

20.8.a

in the title, for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.8.b

in the words before point (a), for “the Community” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

20.8.c

in point (c), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.8.d

in point (d)—

20.8.d.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.8.d.ii

for “Directive  91/628/EEC ” there were substituted  “Regulation  (EC) No
1/2005 ” ;

20.8.e

in point (e)—

20.8.e.i

for “veterinary certificate”, in the first place where it occurs, there were
substituted  “relevant health certificate, in the form published by the
appropriate authority from time to time” ;

20.8.e.ii

the words from “and with a specimen” to the end of that sentence were omitted;

20.8.e.iii

for “under the same procedure” there were substituted  “by the appropriate
authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

20.8.f

in point (f)—

20.8.f.i

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.8.f.ii

for “an agreed border inspection post” there were substituted  “a designated
border control post” ;

20.8.f.iii

for “Article 4 of Directive  91/496/EEC ” there were substituted  “Article 47
of the Official Controls Regulation” .

20.9

Article 8 is to be read as if—

20.9.a

in the words before point (a)—

20.9.a.i

“, including model veterinary certificates,” were omitted;

20.9.a.ii

for “laid down in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2)”
there were substituted  “set out by the appropriate authority in accordance
with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

20.9.b

point (a) were omitted;

20.9.c

in point (d)—

20.9.c.i

for “the Community”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

20.9.c.ii

for “approved Community border inspection posts” there were substituted
“designated border control posts” ;

20.9.d

in point (f)—

20.9.d.i

for “an approved Community border inspection post” there were substituted  “a
designated border control post” ;

20.9.d.ii

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” .

20.10

Article 9 is to be read as if—

20.10.a

“and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2),” were
omitted;

20.10.b

after “conditions may be established” there were inserted  “by the appropriate
authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority
by regulations” ;

20.10.c

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” .

20.11

Article 10 is to be read as if—

20.11.a

“and in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2),” were
omitted;

20.11.b

after “a specific period may be determined” there were inserted  “by the
appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations” .

20.12

Article 11 is to be read as if—

20.12.a

in the heading, for “Veterinary” there were substituted  “Health” ;

20.12.b

in paragraph 1—

20.12.b.i

for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.12.b.ii

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.12.c

in paragraph 2—

20.12.c.i

for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.12.c.ii

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

20.12.d

in paragraph 3—

20.12.d.i

for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.12.d.ii

for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “legislation in force in
the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

20.12.e

in paragraph 4—

20.12.e.i

for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.12.e.ii

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority, in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” .

20.13

Article 13 is to be read as if—

20.13.a

in paragraph 1—

20.13.a.i

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 14(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

20.13.a.ii

points (d) and (e) were omitted;

20.13.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

20.13.b.2

The appropriate authority may by regulations—

20.13.b.2.a

modify the Annexes in order to take account of, in particular—

20.13.b.2.a.i

scientific opinions and scientific knowledge particularly concerning new risk
assessments;

20.13.b.2.a.ii

technical developments and amendments to international standards;

20.13.b.2.a.iii

the setting of safety targets for animal health;

20.13.b.2.b

amend the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the
TARP (ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

20.14

Annex 3 is to be read as if—

20.14.a

in the title, for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.14.b

in paragraph 1, for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.14.c

in paragraph 2—

20.14.c.i

for “Veterinary” there were substituted  “In England and Scotland, health” ;

20.14.c.ii

for the words from “the official language or languages” to the end there were
substituted  “at least English.” ;

20.14.d

in paragraph 3—

20.14.d.i

for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” ;

20.14.d.ii

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

20.14.e

in paragraph 4, for “Veterinary” there were substituted  “Health” ;

20.14.f

in paragraph 5, for “veterinary”, in both places where it occurs, there were
substituted  “health” ;

20.14.g

in paragraph 6, for “veterinary” there were substituted  “health” .

#### Modifications to Directive 2009/156

21

21.1

Directive 2009/156 is modified as follows.

21.2

Article 1 is to be read as if “movement between Member States and” were
omitted.

21.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

21.3.a

in point (c), in the definition of ‘registered equidae”, for the words from
“as defined in Council Directive  90/427/EEC ” to “equidae” there were
substituted  “as mentioned in Article 2(e) of Regulation (EU) 2015/262 , and”
;

21.3.b

after point (c), there were inserted—

21.3.b.ca

‘unregistered equidae’ means equidae other than those mentioned in paragraph
(c);

;

21.3.c

in point (d), in the definition of “equidae for slaughter”, “, referred to in
Article 7,” were omitted;

21.3.d

in point (f), in the definition of “Member State or third country free from
African horse sickness”, “Member State or”, in both places where it occurs,
were omitted;

21.3.e

in point (h), in the definition of “official veterinarian”, “Member State or
of a” were omitted;

21.3.f

in point (i), in the definition of “temporary admission”, for “Community
territory” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

21.3.g

after paragraph (i), there were inserted—

21.3.g.j

‘approved marshalling centre’ means an assembly centre as defined in Article
2(2)(o) of Directive 64/432;

21.3.g.k

‘Regulation (EU) 2015/262’ means  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)
2015/262  laying down rules pursuant to  Council Directives 90/427/EEC  and
2009/156/EC  as regards the methods for the identification of equidae;

21.3.g.l

‘Regulation (EU) 2018/659’ means  Commission Implementing Regulation (EU)
2018/659  on the conditions for the entry into the Union of live equidae and
of semen, ova and embryos of equidae .

.

21.4

The title of Chapter 2 is to be read as if for that title there were
substituted  “General requirements for the purposes of Articles 13(2), 15(a)
and 16(1)” .

21.5

In Article 4—

21.5.a

in paragraph 1—

21.5.a.i

in the second sentence, after “Inspection” there were inserted  “of registered
equidae” ;

21.5.a.ii

for the words from “In the case of registered equidae” to the end, there were
substituted  “Inspection of all other equidae must be carried out on the day
of loading of the animals for dispatch to Great Britain” ;

21.5.b

in paragraph 4(a)—

21.5.b.i

in the first subparagraph, for “Directive  90/427/EEC ” there were substituted
“Regulation (EU) 2015/262” ;

21.5.b.ii

in the second subparagraph, for the words from “shall be adopted” to the end
there were substituted  “is set out in Articles 34 to 36 of  Regulation (EU)
2015/262 , as from time to time supplemented by any procedures that may be
adopted by the appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure set out by
the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.5.c

in paragraph 4(b), for the words from “accordance with” to the end of that
sentence there were substituted  “Regulation (EU) 2015/262 and any new methods
that may be established by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.5.d

in paragraph 5, in the second subparagraph, for “Commission” there were
substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

21.5.e

in paragraph 6—

21.5.e.i

in the words before point (a), for the words from “Where a Member State draws
up” to “from 1 July 2013 for Croatia” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, by regulations or in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, draw up a voluntary or compulsory
programme for a disease to which equidae are susceptible” ;

21.5.e.ii

point (h) were omitted;

21.5.e.iii

for the second subparagraph, there were substituted—

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out any additional guarantees,
general or specific, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

;

21.5.e.iv

the third subparagraph were omitted.

21.6

In Article 5—

21.6.a

in paragraph 1, for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

21.6.b

in paragraph 2, for “Member State” there were substituted  “third country” ;

21.6.c

in paragraph 3, for the words from “specified in” to the end there were
substituted—

specified in—

21.6.c.a

in relation to England, the African Horse Sickness (England) Regulations 2012
;

21.6.c.b

in relation to Scotland, the African Horse Sickness (Scotland) Order 2012 .

;

21.6.d

in paragraph 4, for “Article 6(1)(d) of Directive  92/35/EEC ” there were
substituted  “the relevant provisions of the legislation referred to in
paragraph 3” ;

21.6.e

in paragraph 5—

21.6.e.i

in the words before point (a), for “Member State” there were substituted
“third country” ;

21.6.e.ii

in point (a), for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
21(3)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.6.e.iii

in point (c), for the second subparagraph there were substituted  “The
appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out other monitoring methods;” .

21.7

Article 11 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were substituted
“Great Britain” .

21.8

Article 12 is to be read as if—

21.8.a

in paragraph 1—

21.8.a.i

in the first subparagraph—

21.8.a.i.aa

for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

21.8.a.i.bb

for the words from “to be drawn up” to the end of that sentence there were
substituted  “authorised by legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain. The appropriate authority may, in accordance with
a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, draw up lists
of third countries from which equidae may be imported.” ;

21.8.a.ii

in the second subparagraph, for “in accordance with the procedure referred to
in Article 21(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by
regulations” ;

21.8.a.iii

in the third subparagraph, “and from the Community” were omitted;

21.8.b

paragraph 2—

21.8.b.i

in point (a), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

21.8.b.ii

in point (d), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

21.8.b.iii

in point (f), for “Commission and the Member States” there were substituted
“appropriate authority” ;

21.8.b.iv

in point (h)—

21.8.b.iv.aa

“Community” were omitted;

21.8.b.iv.bb

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

21.8.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

21.8.d

in paragraph 4, for “shall be established” to the end there were substituted
“, may be established by, or in accordance with a procedure established by,
regulations made by the appropriate authority;

21.8.e

in paragraph 5, for “may be adopted” to the end there were substituted “may be
established by, or in accordance with a procedure established by, regulations
made by the appropriate authority.

21.9

Article 13 is to be read as if, in paragraph 2—

21.9.a

in the words before point (a), for “In accordance with the procedure referred
to in Article 21(2) it may be decided” there were substituted  “The
appropriate may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations, provide” ;

21.9.b

in point (b), for “the Community” there were substituted  “Great Britain” .

21.10

Article 14 is to be read as if for “the Member State of destination” there
were substituted  “Great Britain” .

21.11

Article 15 is to be read as if—

21.11.a

in the words before point (a), for “drawn up in accordance with” there were
substituted  “referred to in” ;

21.11.b

in point (a)—

21.11.b.i

after “animal health requirements” there were inserted  “in Regulation (EU)
2018/659 or any animal health requirements” ;

21.11.b.ii

for “species in question,” there were substituted  “species in question and” ;

21.11.b.iii

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 21(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.11.c

in point (b)(ii)—

21.11.c.i

in the first paragraph, for “recognised in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 21(2)” there were substituted  “authorised for use in
Regulation 2018/659 or by the appropriate authority in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.11.c.ii

for the second paragraph there were substituted—

The appropriate may by regulations set out the categories of male equidae to
which this requirement applies.

.

21.12

Article 16 is to be read as if—

21.12.a

in paragraph 1—

21.12.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “health certificate”, in the first place
where it occurs, there were substituted  “relevant health certificate, in the
form published by the appropriate authority from time to time,” ;

21.12.a.ii

in point (a), for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

21.12.a.iii

in point (b), for the words from “one of the official” to the end there were
substituted  “English” ;

21.12.a.iv

the last sentence were omitted;

21.12.b

paragraph 2 were omitted.

21.13

Article 17 is to be read as if—

21.13.a

in paragraph 1—

21.13.a.i

for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

21.13.a.ii

“as referred to in Article 7,” were omitted;

21.13.a.iii

for “a period specified in the decisions to be adopted pursuant to Article 15”
there were substituted  “the period specified in Article 21 of Regulation (EU)
2018/659” ;

21.13.b

in paragraph 2—

21.13.b.i

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 21(2)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

21.13.b.ii

“of the Member State of destination” were omitted.

21.14

Article 19 is to be read as if—

21.14.a

for the words before point (a), there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may by regulations set out a procedure to” ;

21.14.b

in point (a), for “it may be decided that” there were substituted  “determine
that” ;

21.14.c

in point (b)—

21.14.c.i

at the beginning there were inserted “establish that,”;

21.14.c.ii

in both places where it occurs, for “Community territory” there were
substituted  “Great Britain” ;

21.14.c.iii

“, shall be established” were omitted;

21.14.d

in point (c)—

21.14.d.i

at the beginning there were inserted “determine that”;

21.14.d.ii

“shall be determined” were omitted;

21.14.e

in point (d)—

21.14.e.i

at the beginning there were inserted “designate”;

21.14.e.ii

for “may be designated and” there were substituted  “and provide” ;

21.14.e.iii

for “Community” there were substituted  “national” ;

21.14.e.iv

for “the Member States shall be provided for” there were substituted  “Great
Britain” .

21.15

Article 20 is to be read as if for the existing text there were substituted—

21.15.20

The appropriate authority may by regulations modify Annexes 1 and 4, or amend
the modifications made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the TARP
(ALF) Regulations 2022.

.

21.16

In Annex 4, in Part B—

21.16.a

in the words before point 1, in the fourth subparagraph, “the European Union
Reference Laboratory or” were omitted;

21.16.b

in point 2.1, in the first paragraph, the second and third sentences were
omitted.

#### Modifications to Directive 2009/158

22

22.1

Directive 2009/158 is modified as follows.

22.2

Article 1 is to be read as if “intra-Community trade in, and” were omitted.

22.3

Article 2 is to be read as if—

22.3.a

in the first paragraph, for the words from “and ‘third country’” to the end
there were substituted  “has the meaning given in Article 3 of the Official
Controls Regulation” ;

22.3.b

in point 11, in the definition of “approved laboratory”, “located in the
territory of a Member State,” were omitted;

22.3.c

in point 14, in the definition of “outbreak”, for the words from “means an
outbreak” to the end there were substituted  “means the holding or place
situated in the territory of the relevant third country where animals are
assembled and where one or more cases has or have been officially confirmed” .

22.4

The title of Chapter 2 is to be read as if for that title there were
substituted  “ANIMAL HEALTH CONDITIONS RETAINED FOR THE PURPOSE OF SETTING
IMPORT REQUIREMENTS IN REGULATIONS MADE UNDER ARTICLE 25(1)(b)” .

22.5

Article 5 is to be read as if—

22.5.a

for “traded in the Community” there were substituted  “imported into Great
Britain” ;

22.5.b

point (d) were omitted.

22.6

Article 6 is to be read as if, in point (a)(iii), for “Community legislation”
there were substituted  “animal and public health legislation of the relevant
third country” .

22.7

Article 8 is to be read as if, in paragraph 1(a)—

22.7.i

in point (i), “Community” were omitted;

22.7.ii

in point (iii), in the first indent, for “during the” there were substituted
“at the time specified in the health certificate, and in any event not more
than” .

22.8

Article 10 is to be read as if, in point (a), “Community” were omitted.

22.9

Article 11 is to be read as if—

22.9.a

in point (a), for “or for more than” there were substituted  “or, where that
is not the case, for the time period specified in the health certificate which
must be more than” ;

22.9.b

in point (d), for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “animal and
public health legislation of the relevant third country” .

22.10

Article 12 is to be read as if, in paragraph 1—

22.10.a

for point (a) there were substituted—

22.10.a.a

where it has been held since hatching or, provided the period specified in the
health certificate is more than 21 days, for that period;

22.10.a.ab

where the poultry to be consigned have not been placed in contact with newly
arrived poultry during the two weeks preceding consignment;

;

22.10.b

in point (c), for “during the” there were substituted  “, at the time
specified in the health certificate but in any event not more than” ;

22.10.c

in point (d), for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “animal and
public health legislation of the relevant third country” .

22.11

Article 14 is to be read as if—

22.11.a

in paragraph 1, for “intra-Community trade in” there were substituted “imports
of  “;

22.11.b

in paragraph 2—

22.11.b.i

in point (a), for “Community” there were substituted  “relevant third country”
;

22.11.b.ii

in point (e), for “Community legislation” there were substituted  “animal and
public health legislation of the relevant third country” .

22.12

Article 15 is to be read as if—

22.12.a

in paragraph 1, in the words before point (a)—

22.12.a.i

for “Member States”, in both places where it occurs, there were substituted
“third countries” ;

22.12.a.ii

for “a Member State or region of a Member State” there were substituted
“Great Britain or a region of Great Britain” ;

22.12.b

in paragraph 2—

22.12.b.i

for the first, second and third subparagraphs there were substituted—

The appropriate authority may by regulations or in accordance with a procedure
set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, for the territory for
which it is responsible or for a region of that territory, draw up a
programme, as referred to in Article 16(1), for the control of Newcastle
disease for the purpose of establishing Newcastle disease non-vaccinating
status.

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out any additional guarantees,
general or specific, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

Where the appropriate authority considers that a region of Great Britain in
the territory for which it is responsible has achieved Newcastle disease non-
vaccinating status, the appropriate authority may, in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, determine that
Newcastle disease non-vaccinating status has been established.

;

22.12.b.ii

in the fourth subparagraph—

22.12.b.ii.aa

in the words before point (a), for “a Member State’s or region’s status as
Newcastle disease non-vaccinating” there were substituted  “Newcastle disease
non-vaccinating status” ;

22.12.b.ii.bb

in point (a), for the words from “except for the compulsory vaccination” to
the end there were substituted  “except where there is a compulsory
vaccination programme for racing pigeons established by the appropriate
authority” ;

22.12.b.ii.cc

in point (b), for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
33(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

22.12.b.ii.dd

in point (c), for “Article 17(3) of Directive  92/66/EEC ” there were
substituted  “a compulsory vaccination programme established by the
appropriate authority” ;

22.12.c

in paragraph 3, in the words before point (a)—

22.12.c.i

for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

22.12.c.ii

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(2)” there were
substituted  “in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations,” .

22.13

Article 16 is to be read as if—

22.13.a

in paragraph 1—

22.13.a.i

for “Where a Member State draws up or has drawn up” there were substituted
“The appropriate authority may, by regulations or in accordance with a
procedure set out by the appropriate authority by regulations, draw up” ;

22.13.a.ii

“it may present the programme to the Commission,” were omitted;

22.13.b

for paragraph 2, there were substituted—

22.13.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out any additional guarantees,
general or specific, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

;

22.13.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

22.14

Article 17 is to be read as if—

22.14.a

in paragraph 1—

22.14.a.i

in the words before point (a)—

22.14.a.i.aa

for “a Member State” there were substituted  “the appropriate authority” ;

22.14.a.i.bb

for “it shall present to the Commission appropriate supporting documentation,”
there were substituted  “the appropriate authority may, by regulations or in
accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate authority by
regulations, draw up a plan” ;

22.14.a.ii

in point (a), for “that Member State” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

22.14.b

for paragraph 2 there were substituted—

22.14.b.2

The appropriate authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the
appropriate authority by regulations, set out any additional guarantees,
general or specific, which may be required for importation into Great Britain.

;

22.14.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

22.15

Article 18 is to be read as if—

22.15.a

in paragraph 2(b)(i), for “Member State” there were substituted  “third
country” ;

22.15.b

in paragraph 7, for “competent authority of the Member State” there were
substituted  “competent authority of the third country” .

22.16

Article 21 is to be read as if—

22.16.a

for the words from “The Member States of destination” to “one or more Member
States” there were substituted  “Third countries” ;

22.16.b

after “of dispatch” there were inserted  “may be granted by the appropriate
authority” ;

22.16.c

for “Article 20” there were substituted  “Article 26” .

22.17

Article 22 is to be read as if for “the Community” there were substituted
“Great Britain” .

22.18

Article 23 is to be read as if—

22.18.a

in paragraph 1, for the words from “on a list drawn up by the Commission” to
the end there were substituted—

on a list authorised by legislation in force in the relevant constituent
territory of Great Britain.

The appropriate authority may by regulations draw up lists of third countries
from which poultry and hatching eggs covered by this Directive may be imported
into Great Britain.

;

22.18.b

in paragraph 2—

22.18.b.i

in point (a), for “the Member States” there were substituted  “Great Britain”
;

22.18.b.ii

in point (g), for “Community rules” there were substituted  “legislation in
force in the relevant constituent territory of Great Britain” ;

22.18.c

paragraph 3 were omitted.

22.19

Article 24 is to be read as if—

22.19.a

in paragraph 1—

22.19.a.i

in point (a), for the words from “and Newcastle disease” to the end there were
substituted  “and Newcastle disease, as referred to in the Diseases of Poultry
Orders, are legally notifiable diseases” ;

22.19.a.ii

in point (b), for “Directives  2005/94/EC  and  92/66/EEC  respectively” there
were substituted  “the Diseases of Poultry Orders” ;

22.19.b

in paragraph 2, for “The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 33(2), decide” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations, determine” .

22.20

Article 25 is to be read as if—

22.20.a

in paragraph 1—

22.20.a.i

in the words before point (a), for “drawn up in accordance with” there were
substituted  “referred to in” ;

22.20.a.ii

in point (a), for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
33(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

22.20.a.iii

in point (b), for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
33(2)” there were substituted  “by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

22.20.b

in paragraph 2, for “In accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
33(2), derogations may be granted” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may by regulations grant derogations” .

22.21

Article 26 is to be read as if—

22.21.a

in paragraph 1—

22.21.a.i

in the first subparagraph, for “certificate” there were substituted  “relevant
health certificate, in the form published by the appropriate authority from
time to time, that is” ;

22.21.a.ii

in point (a), for “the Member State of destination” there were substituted
“Great Britain” ;

22.21.a.iii

in point (b), for “the official language or languages of the Member State of
destination” there were substituted  “at least English” ;

22.21.a.iv

in point (e), for “five” there were substituted  “ten” ;

22.21.b

paragraph 2 were omitted.

22.22

Article 28 is to be read as if—

22.22.a

in paragraph 1, for “The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 33(3), decide” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations, determine” ;

22.22.b

in paragraph 2, for “The Commission may, in accordance with the procedure
referred to in Article 33(2)” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations,” .

22.23

Article 29 is to be read as if—

22.23.a

for “the Commission may, in accordance with the procedure referred to in
Article 33(2), decide to permit” there were substituted  “the appropriate
authority may, in accordance with a procedure set out by the appropriate
authority by regulations, permit” ;

22.23.b

for “shall be drawn up at the same time in accordance with the same procedure”
there were substituted  “may be prescribed by the appropriate authority by
regulations” .

22.24

Article 30 is to be read as if—

22.24.a

for “the Member State of destination”, in the first place where it occurs,
there were substituted  “Great Britain” ;

22.24.b

for “in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 33(3)” there were
substituted  “by the appropriate authority in accordance with a procedure set
out by the appropriate authority by regulations” ;

22.24.c

“of the Member State of destination” were omitted.

22.25

Article 34 is to be read as if—

22.25.a

for “Amendments to Annexes I to V” there were substituted  “The appropriate
authority may by regulations modify Annexes 1 to 3, or amend the modifications
made to any Annex to this Directive by Part 5 of the TARP (ALF) Regulations
2022,” ;

22.25.b

“, shall be decided in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article
33(2)” were omitted.

22.26

Annex 1 is to be read as if—

22.26.a

“designated in accordance with Article 4” were omitted;

22.26.b

“in each Member State” were omitted.

22.27

Annex 2 is to be read as if—

22.27.a

in Chapter 1, in point 1, for “intra-Community trade” there were substituted
“importation into Great Britain” ;

22.27.b

in Chapter 2—

22.27.b.i

in point A(2)—

22.27.b.i.aa

in subparagraph (b), in the second indent, “in the Community” were omitted;

22.27.b.i.bb

in subparagraph (e)(ii), for “the same Member State” there were substituted
“the relevant third country” ;

22.27.b.ii

in point B(2)—

22.27.b.ii.aa

in subparagraph (b), in the first indent, “Community” were omitted;

22.27.b.ii.bb

in subparagraph (e), in the first indent, for “trade within the Union or
export to a third country” there were substituted  “for importation into Great
Britain” ;

22.27.c

in Chapter 3, in point A(2)(d), for “in the Member State” there were
substituted  “in the country” .

22.28

Annex 3 is to be read as if—

22.28.a

in point 1, for “any Member State” there were substituted  “the relevant
country” ;

22.28.b

in point 2, for “Commission” there were substituted  “appropriate authority” ;

22.28.c

in point 3, for “ Directive 2001/82/EC  of the European Parliament and of the
Council” there were substituted  “the Veterinary Medicines Regulations 2013” .

      Benyon   Minister of State   Department for Environment, Food and Rural
Affairs

  Lists of provisions of EU Directives containing legislative and other
functions

Regulation 8(1)

1

In Directive 64/432—

1.a

Article 9(1), together with Annex E(2);

1.b

Article 9(2);

1.c

Article 10(2), together with Article 10(1) and Annex E(2);

1.d

Article 16;

1.e

in Section 1 of Annex A—

1.e.i

paragraph 4;

1.e.ii

paragraph 5;

1.f

in Section 2 of Annex A—

1.f.i

paragraph 1(d);

1.f.ii

paragraph 2(b);

1.f.iii

in paragraph 2(c), the second subparagraph;

1.f.iv

in paragraph 3A, point (b) of the third subparagraph;

1.f.v

in paragraph 6A, the second subparagraph;

1.f.vi

paragraph 7;

1.f.vii

paragraph 9;

1.f.viii

paragraph 10;

1.g

in Annex B—

1.g.i

point 2.2.5.3.5;

1.g.ii

point 3;

1.h

in Chapter 1 of Annex D—

1.h.i

Section E;

1.h.ii

Section F(d);

1.h.iii

in Section G—

1.h.iii.aa

the first paragraph;

1.h.iii.bb

the second paragraph.

2

In Directive 88/407—

2.a

in Article 8(1), the second subparagraph, together with Article 8(2);

2.b

in Article 9(2), the third subparagraph;

2.c

Article 9(3);

2.d

in Article 10(2), the first subparagraph, together with the second
subparagraph;

2.e

Article 10(3);

2.f

Article 17.

3

In Directive 89/556—

3.a

in Article 7(1), the second subparagraph, together with Article 7(2);

3.b

in Article 8(2), the third subparagraph;

3.c

Article 8(3);

3.d

in Article 9(1)(b), the first subparagraph, together with the second
subparagraph and Article 9(3);

3.e

Article 9(2);

3.f

Article 16;

3.g

in Chapter 2 of Annex A—

3.g.i

point 1(h);

3.g.ii

point (m);

3.g.iii

point (n).

4

In Directive 90/429—

4.a

in Article 7(1), the second subparagraph, together with Article 7(2);

4.b

Article 8(2), the third subparagraph;

4.c

Article 8(3);

4.d

in Article 9(2), the first subparagraph, together with the second
subparagraph;

4.e

Article 9(3);

4.f

Article 17;

4.g

point 6(g) of Chapter 2 of Annex A.

5

In Directive 91/68—

5.a

the third indent of Article 6(a)(i);

5.b

the third indent of Article 6(c);

5.c

Article 7(1);

5.d

Article 7(2);

5.e

Article 8(1);

5.f

Article 14(1);

5.g

Article 14(2);

5.h

point C(3) of Section 1 of Chapter 1 of Annex A;

5.i

in Section 2 of Chapter 1 of Annex A—

5.i.i

the first paragraph;

5.i.ii

the third indent of point 2(i);

5.j

the first paragraph of Annex C.

6

In Directive 92/65—

6.a

Article 6(A)(2)(c);

6.b

Article 6(A)(4);

6.c

in Article 7(A)(2)(a), the second subparagraph;

6.d

in Article 7(A)(2)(b), the second subparagraph;

6.e

in Article 8(a), the third subparagraph;

6.f

in Article 11(3), the third subparagraph;

6.g

in Article 11(4), the third subparagraph;

6.h

in Article 11(5), the first subparagraph;

6.i

in Article 13(2)(d), the third subparagraph;

6.j

Article 14(1);

6.k

Article 14(2);

6.l

Article 15(1);

6.m

in Article 17(2)(b)(ii), the first subparagraph;

6.n

in Article 17(3), point (a) of the first subparagraph, together with Chapter 2
( General requirements applicable to imports for the purposes of Articles 16,
17 and 18 );

6.o

in Article 17(3), point (b) of the first subparagraph;

6.p

in Article 17(3), the sixth subparagraph;

6.q

Article 17(4)(a)(iii);

6.r

the fourth indent of Article 18(1);

6.s

Article 19(a);

6.t

Article 19(b);

6.u

Article 21;

6.v

Article 22;

6.w

Article 23.

7

In Directive 92/118—

7.a

in Article 5, the second paragraph;

7.b

Article 6;

7.c

in Article 10(2)(a), the second subparagraph, together with Article 10(4) and
Chapter 2 ( Guarantees applicable to imports for the purposes of Article 9 );

7.d

Article 10(3)(a), together with Article 10(4) and Chapter 2;

7.e

Article 10(3)(c), together with Article 10(4) and Chapter 2;

7.f

Article 11;

7.g

in Article 15, the first paragraph;

7.h

in Article 15, the second paragraph;

7.i

Section 3 of Chapter 7 of Annex 1.

8

In Directive 2002/99—

8.a

in Article 4(1), paragraph (a) of the second subparagraph;

8.b

Article 4(2)(a);

8.c

in Article 4(3), the first subparagraph, together with the second
subparagraph;

8.d

in Article 4(3), the second subparagraph;

8.e

in Article 8, the first paragraph and the first subparagraph of paragraph 1,
together with the second to fourth subparagraphs of paragraph 1;

8.f

in Article 8, the first paragraph and paragraph 3;

8.g

in Article 8, the first paragraph and paragraph 4;

8.h

in Article 8, the first paragraph and the first indent of paragraph 5;

8.i

in Article 8, the first paragraph and the second indent of paragraph 5;

8.j

in Article 8, the first paragraph and the third indent of paragraph 5;

8.k

Article 9(4)(a);

8.l

Article 9(4)(c);

8.m

Article 11.

9

In Directive 2004/68—

9.a

in Article 3(1), the second subparagraph,, together with Article 4;

9.b

in Article 3(1), the third subparagraph, together with the fourth
subparagraph;

9.c

Article 3(2);

9.d

Article 4(h);

9.e

in Article 6(1), the first subparagraph, together with the second subparagraph
and Article 6(2) and (3);

9.f

Article 7(e);

9.g

Article 8;

9.h

in Article 9;

9.i

in Article 10, the first paragraph, together with the second paragraph;

9.j

Article 11(4);

9.k

Article 13(1)(a);

9.l

Article 13(1)(b);

9.m

Article 13(1)(c);

9.n

Article 13(2).

10

In Directive 2009/156—

10.a

in Article 4(4)(a), the second subparagraph;

10.b

Article 4(4)(b);

10.c

in Article 4(6), the first subparagraph;

10.d

in Article 4(6), the second subparagraph;

10.e

in Article 5(5)(c), the second subparagraph;

10.f

in Article 12(1), the first subparagraph, together with Article 12(2) and (3);

10.g

in Article 12(1), the second subparagraph, together with the third
subparagraph;

10.h

Article 12(4);

10.i

Article 12(5);

10.j

Article 13(2)(a), together with Article 5(2) and (5);

10.k

Article 13(2)(b);

10.l

in Article 15(a), the first subparagraph, together with the second
subparagraph and Chapter 2 ( General requirements for the purposes of Articles
13(2), 15(a) and 16(1) );

10.m

in Article 15(b)(ii), the first subparagraph;

10.n

in Article 15(b)(ii), the second subparagraph;

10.o

Article 16(1), together with Article 4(4);

10.p

Article 17(2);

10.q

Article 19(a);

10.r

Article 19(b);

10.s

Article 19(c);

10.t

Article 19(d);

10.u

Article 20.

11

In Directive 2009/158—

11.a

in Article 15(2), the first subparagraph;

11.b

in Article 15(2), the second subparagraph;

11.c

in Article 15(2), the third subparagraph, together with the fourth
subparagraph;

11.d

in Article 15(2), point (b) of the fourth subparagraph;

11.e

Article 15(3);

11.f

Article 16(1);

11.g

Article 16(2);

11.h

Article 17(1);

11.i

Article 17(2);

11.j

Article 21;

11.k

in Article 23(1), the second subparagraph, together with Article 23(2);

11.l

Article 24(2);

11.m

Article 25(1)(a);

11.n

Article 25(1)(b), together with Article 25(2) and Chapter 2 ( Animal health
conditions retained for the purpose of setting import requirements in
regulations made under Article 25(1)(b) );

11.o

Article 28(1);

11.p

Article 28(2);

11.q

Article 29, together with Chapter 2;

11.r

in Article 30, the second paragraph;

11.s

Article 34.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of these Regulations)

  These Regulations are made in exercise of the powers conferred by section
8(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act  2018 (c. 16)  in order to address
failures of retained EU law to operate effectively and other deficiencies (in
particular under section 8(2)(f) and (g) of that Act) arising from the
withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. The retained EU law
concerns the importation of animals and related animal products into Great
Britain, or the transit of animals or related animal products through Great
Britain.

  The domestic legislation listed below requires consignments of animals or
animal products that are being imported into or transiting through Great
Britain to comply with animal and public health requirements of EU directives
and other EU Regulations and Decisions that are set out in Schedule 1 of the
following instruments—     a     the Trade in Animals and Related Products
Regulations 2011 (see regulations 15(3)(a) and 18(3) of and Schedule 1 to
those Regulations);         b     the Trade in Animals and Related Products
(Scotland) Regulations 2012 (see regulations 13(3)(a) and 16(3) of and
Schedule 1 to those Regulations).

  In Part 2, regulations 5 and 6 amend the legislation listed in points (a)
and (b) above, to replace Schedule 1 to those instruments with a new, updated
list of legislation in regulation 7(2) (see Part 3 of these Regulations).

  In Part 3, regulation 7(1) introduces the list of legislation that replaces
Schedule 1 of the domestic instruments and regulation 7(2) then lists the
legislation that contains the animal and public health requirements required
for importation into Great Britain.

  In Part 4, regulation 8(1) introduces the list of functions set out in the
Schedule that are being transferred from EU bodies to the appropriate
authority in England or Scotland. Regulation 8(2) and (3) refers to the list
of functions of the EU Directives, and other associated provisions that are
relevant or connected to the listed function, that are conferred on the
appropriate authority by these Regulations and makes those functions and
associated provisions exercisable in domestic law. Regulation 9 sets out the
regulation-making procedure for the exercise of any functions listed in the
Schedule that are legislative powers.

  In Part 5, regulations 10 to 22 set out the modifications made to the
provisions of the EU Directives listed in regulation 7(2)(a) and to the
functions and associated provisions of those EU Directives listed in the
Schedule.

  The Schedule lists the provisions of the EU Directives that confer functions
on the appropriate authority, together with any other provisions that are
either relevant or connected to the exercise of a listed function.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the public, private or voluntary sector is foreseen.

