Title: The Value Added Tax (Installation of Energy-Saving Materials) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order introduces a temporary relief from VAT in the form of a zero rate to be applied to the supply of installation of energy-saving materials in England and Wales and Scotland. The relief remains in force for the period from 1st April 2022 until 31st March 2027. The Order also widens the scope of the zero rate (from 1st April 2022 to 31st March 2027) and reduced rate (from 1st April 2027) for the installation of energy-saving materials in England and Wales and Scotland.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/361

## The Value Added Tax (Installation of Energy-Saving Materials) Order 2022

    Value Added Tax

  Made   at 11.20 a.m. on 23rd March 2022

  Laid before the House of Commons    at 3.00 p.m. on 23rd March 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with articles 2 and 3

      The Treasury make this Order in exercise of the powers conferred by
sections 29A(3), 30(4) and 96(9) of the Value Added Tax Act 1994 .

### Citation and Commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Value Added Tax (Installation of Energy-Saving
Materials) Order 2022.

2

Articles 1 to 7 come into force on 1st April 2022.

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendments to the Value Added Tax Act 1994

4

The Value Added Tax Act 1994 is amended as follows.

### Installation of energy-saving materials: Northern Ireland

5

5.1

Schedule 7A (charge at a reduced rate)  is amended as follows.

5.2

In the table in Part 1 (index), after “Energy-saving materials: installation”
insert  “in Northern Ireland” .

5.3

In Part 2 (the Groups), in Group 2 —

5.3.a

in the heading, after “materials” insert  “in Northern Ireland” ;

5.3.b

in item 1, after “accommodation” insert  “in Northern Ireland” ;

5.3.c

in item 2, in the words before paragraph (a), after “accommodation” insert
“in Northern Ireland” ; and

5.3.d

in item 3, after “accommodation” insert  “in Northern Ireland” .

### Installation of energy-saving materials: England and Wales and Scotland from 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2027

6

In Schedule 7A, in Part 2, in Group 3 (grant-funded installation of heating
equipment or security goods or connections of gas supply), in items 8A and 8B,
after “Supplies” insert  “, so far as not falling within Group 23 in Schedule
8,” .

7

7.1

Schedule 8 (zero-rating) is amended as follows.

7.2

In the table in Part 1 (index), at the appropriate place insert—

Energy-saving materials: installation in England and Wales and Scotland from 1
April 2022 to 31 March 2027 Group 23

7.3

In Schedule 8, in Part 2 (the Groups), at the end insert —

GROUP 23: INSTALLATION OF ENERGY-SAVING MATERIALS IN ENGLAND AND WALES AND
SCOTLAND FROM 1 APRIL 2022 TO 31 MARCH 2027

Item No

7.3.1

Relevant supplies of services of installing energy-saving materials in
residential accommodation in England and Wales and Scotland.

7.3.2

Relevant supplies of energy-saving materials by a person who installs those
materials in residential accommodation in England and Wales and Scotland.

NOTES:

Meaning of “energy-saving materials”

7.3.1

For the purposes of this Group “ energy saving materials ” means any of the
following—

7.3.1.a

insulation for walls, floors, ceilings, roofs or lofts or for water tanks,
pipes or other plumbing fittings;

7.3.1.b

draught stripping for windows and doors;

7.3.1.c

central heating system controls (including thermostatic radiator valves);

7.3.1.d

hot water system controls;

7.3.1.e

solar panels;

7.3.1.f

wind turbines;

7.3.1.g

water turbines;

7.3.1.h

ground source heat pumps;

7.3.1.i

air source heat pumps;

7.3.1.j

micro combined heat and power units;

7.3.1.k

boilers designed to be fuelled solely by wood, straw or similar vegetal
matter.

Meaning of “residential accommodation”

7.3.2

7.3.2.1

For the purposes of this Group “ residential accommodation ” means —

7.3.2.1.a

a building, or part of a building, that consists of a dwelling or a number of
dwellings;

7.3.2.1.b

a building, or part of a building, used for a relevant residential purpose;

7.3.2.1.c

a caravan used as a place of permanent habitation; or

7.3.2.1.d

a houseboat.

7.3.2.2

For the purposes of this Group “ use for a relevant residential purpose ” has
the same meaning as it has for the purposes of Group 1 in Schedule 7A (see
paragraph 7(1) of the Notes to that Group).

7.3.2.3

In sub-paragraph (1)(d) “ houseboat ” has the meaning given by paragraph 7(3)
of the Notes to Group 1 in Schedule 7A.

Meaning of “relevant supplies”

7.3.3

For the purposes of this Group “ relevant supplies ” means supplies made on or
after 1 April 2022 and before 1 April 2027.

.

### Installation of energy-saving materials: England and Wales and Scotland from 1 April 2027

8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Alan Mak Amanda Solloway Two of the Lords Commissioners for Her Majesty’s
Treasury At 11.20 a.m. on 23rd March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order introduces a temporary relief from VAT in the form of a zero rate
to be applied to the supply of installation of energy-saving materials in
England and Wales and Scotland. The relief remains in force for the period
from 1st April 2022 until 31st March 2027. The Order also widens the scope of
the zero rate (from 1st April 2022 to 31st March 2027) and reduced rate (from
1st April 2027) for the installation of energy-saving materials in England and
Wales and Scotland.

Article 5 amends Group 2 in Schedule 7A (reduced rating) of the Value Added
Tax Act  1994 (c. 23)  to maintain the reduced rate for the installation of
energy-saving materials in Northern Ireland.

Article 6 provides that where a supply could fall within Group 3 (grant-funded
installation of heating equipment or security goods or connections of gas
supply) in Schedule 7A or new Group 23 in Schedule 8 (zero-rating), Group 23
applies.

Article 7 inserts into Schedule 8 a new Group 23 which describes the
installation of energy-saving materials in England and Wales and Scotland that
will attract the temporary zero-rate relief.

After the end of the temporary zero-rate relief for the installation of
energy-saving materials in England and Wales and Scotland, article 8 provides
that those supplies will be reduced-rated by inserting new items 4 and 5 into
Group 2 of Schedule 7A.

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument will be published
on the government website at  https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/tax-
information-and-impact-notes-tiins .

