Title: The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: Sections 104 and 123 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”) allow the landlord under a secure contract and a periodic standard contract, respectively, to vary the rent payable under the contract by giving the contract-holder a notice setting out a new rent to take effect on the date specified in the notice.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/781

## The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

Housing, Wales

Made 15 July 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru 18 July 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 236(3) and 256(1) and (2)  of and paragraph 15(2) of
Schedule 12 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Rent Determination)
(Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1
December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into force)   .

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” (“ y Ddeddf ”) means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016; “
appointed day ” ( “y diwrnod penodedig” ) has the meaning given by the Act
(see section 242); “ assured agricultural occupancy ” ( “meddiannaeth
amaethyddol sicr” ) has the meaning given by the Act (see paragraph 1 of
Schedule 12 to the Act); “ assured tenancy ” ( “tenantiaeth sicr” ) has the
meaning given by the Act (see section 242); “ billing authority ” (“ awdurdod
bilio ”) has the meaning given by section 1(2) of the Local Government Finance
Act 1992; “ category of dwellings ” (“ categori o anheddau ”) has the meaning
given by section 30(1) and (2) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992; “
dwelling ” (“ annedd ”) has the meaning given by the Act (see section 246); “
hereditament ” (“ hereditament ”) has the meaning given by section 3 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992; “ landlord ” (“ landlord ”) has the meaning
given by the Act (see section 244(2)); “ relevant contract-holder ” ( “deiliad
contract perthnasol” ) means a contract-holder (which has the meaning given by
the Act (see section 7(5)) under a relevant converted contract; “ relevant
converted contract ” (“ contract wedi ei drosi perthnasol ”) has the meaning
given by the Act (see paragraph 15(3) of Schedule 12 to the Act); “ relevant
improvement ” (“ gwelliant perthnasol ”) means an improvement— carried out
during the relevant converted contract to which the notice under section 104
or 123 of the Act applies, or which satisfies the following conditions— the
improvement was carried out not more than twenty-one years before the date of
service of the notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act, at all times during
the period beginning when the improvement was carried out and ending on the
date of service of the notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act, the
dwelling has been let under a relevant converted contract, an assured tenancy
or an assured agricultural occupancy, and on the coming to an end of an
assured tenancy or an assured agricultural occupancy, at any time during that
period, the tenant or licensee (or, in case of joint tenants or licensees, at
least one of them) did not quit; “ rent ” (“ rhent ”) does not include— any
service charge within the meaning of section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act
1985, or any payments prohibited under section 4 of the Renting Homes (Fees
etc.) (Wales) Act 2019, but, subject to that, includes any sums payable by the
relevant contract-holder to the landlord on account of the use of furniture,
in respect of council tax or for any of the matters referred to in section
18(1)(a) of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985, whether or not those sums are
separate from the sums payable for the occupation of the dwelling concerned or
are payable under separate agreements; “ rent assessment committee ” (“
pwyllgor asesu rhenti ”) means a rent assessment committee constituted in
accordance with Schedule 10 to the Rent Act 1977.

### Application to a rent assessment committee

3

3.1

Following receipt of a notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act, a relevant
contract-holder may apply to a rent assessment committee for a determination
of the rent for the dwelling.

3.2

The application to a rent assessment committee must be made—

3.2.a

in the prescribed form, and

3.2.b

within 2 months following receipt of the notice under section 104 or 123 of
the Act.

3.3

The prescribed form is as set out in the Schedule.

3.4

An application in a form substantially to the same effect as the prescribed
form is valid.

### Determination of rent by a rent assessment committee

4

A rent assessment committee must determine all applications made under
regulation 3 in accordance with the assumptions set out in regulation 6.

### Variation of rent upon a determination by a rent assessment committee

5

A rent determined by a rent assessment committee, in accordance with the
assumptions set out in regulation 6, will be the rent for the dwelling under
the relevant converted contract with effect from the date specified in the
notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act, unless the landlord and the
relevant contract-holder otherwise agree.

### Assumptions in accordance with which a rent assessment committee must determine rent

6

When making a determination of rent for a dwelling under these Regulations, a
rent assessment committee must determine the rent at which it considers the
dwelling concerned might reasonably be expected to be let in the open market
by a willing landlord under  an occupation contract of the same type as the
relevant converted contract  to which the notice under section 104 or 123 of
the Act relates, assuming that—

6.a

the  occupation  contract begins on the date specified in the notice under
section 104 or 123 of the Act,

6.b

the granting of a contract to a sitting contract-holder has no effect on the
rent,

6.c

any increase in the value of the dwelling attributable to a relevant
improvement carried out by a person who at the time it was carried out was the
tenant, licensee  or relevant contract-holder has no effect on the rent, if
the improvement was carried out—

6.c.i

otherwise than in pursuance of an obligation to the immediate landlord, or

6.c.ii

pursuant to an obligation to the immediate landlord being an obligation which
did not relate to the specific improvement concerned but arose by reference to
consent given to the carrying out of that improvement,

6.d

any reduction in the value of the dwelling attributable to a failure by the
... relevant contract-holder to comply with any terms of the  ... relevant
converted contract   or the tenancy or licence which existed immediately
before the appointed day  has no effect on the rent,

6.e

where the landlord or a superior landlord is liable to pay council tax in
respect of a hereditament of which the dwelling forms part, under Part 1 of
the Local Government Finance Act 1992, the amount of council tax which, as at
the date on which the notice under section 104 or 123 was served, was set by
the billing authority—

6.e.i

for the financial year in which the notice was served, and

6.e.ii

for the category of dwellings within which the relevant hereditament fell on
that date,

has an effect on the rent, but any discount or other reduction affecting the
amount of council tax payable has no effect on the rent, and

6.f

neither the landlord nor a superior landlord is paying rates in respect of the
dwelling.

### Landlord and relevant contract-holder notice to a rent assessment committee

7

Nothing in these Regulations requires the rent assessment committee to
continue with its determination of a rent for a dwelling under the relevant
converted contract if the landlord and relevant contract-holder give notice in
writing that they no longer require such a determination or if the relevant
converted contract has come to an end.

### Consequential amendments to the Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971

8

8.1

The Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971  are
amended as follows.

8.2

In regulation 2 (interpretation) —

8.2.a

in the definition of “reference”, after “Local Government and Housing Act
1989”, replace the full stop with “, or which is made under regulation 3 of
the Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales)
Regulations 2022 .”;

8.2.b

at the appropriate places, insert the following definitions—

“ dwelling ” has the meaning given by section 246 of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 ;

;

“ relevant contract-holder ” means a contract-holder (which has the meaning
given by section 7(5) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016) under a relevant
converted contract;

;

“ relevant converted contract ” has the meaning given by paragraph 15(3)  of
Schedule 12 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;

;

...

;

...

.

8.3

In regulation 2A (1988 and 1989 Act references) —

8.3.a

for the heading, substitute  “References” ;

8.3.b

in paragraph (1), after “Housing Act 1988;”, omit “or”;

8.3.c

in paragraph (1), after “Local Government and Housing Act 1989”, in the second
place it occurs, replace the full stop with—

; or

regulation 3 of the Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 .

.

8.4

In regulation 3(3)(c) , after “tenant”, insert  “ ... or relevant contract-
holder” .

8.5

In regulation 5(1)(b) —

8.5.a

for “assured tenancies or assured agricultural occupancies”, substitute
“assured tenancies, assured agricultural occupancies or relevant converted
contracts” ,

8.5.b

after “dwelling-houses”, in both places it occurs, insert  “or dwellings” .

8.6

In regulation 7—

8.6.a

in the heading, after “dwelling-house”, insert  “or dwelling” , and

8.6.b

in paragraph (1), after “dwelling-house”, insert  “or dwelling” .

Julie James Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

Regulation 3









## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

Sections 104 and 123 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“ the
Act ”) allow the landlord under a secure contract and a periodic standard
contract, respectively, to vary the rent payable under the contract by giving
the contract-holder a notice setting out a new rent to take effect on the date
specified in the notice.

These Regulations make provision, as required by paragraph 15(2) of Schedule
12 to the Act, to enable a contract-holder under a relevant converted contract
(as defined by paragraph 15(3) of Schedule 12 to the Act) to apply to a
prescribed person for a determination of the rent for the dwelling where they
have received a notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act and for that
determination to be the rent under the contract.

Regulation 3 provides for a contract-holder under a relevant converted
contract, who has received a notice under either section 104 or 123 of the
Act, to apply to a rent assessment committee, constituted in accordance with
Schedule 10 to the Rent Act 1977, for a determination of the rent for the
dwelling. Regulation 3 also prescribes the form of application to the rent
assessment committee, which is set out in the Schedule to these Regulations.
An application which is in a form substantially to the same effect is valid.

Regulation 4 provides that a rent assessment committee must determine all such
applications in accordance with the assumptions set out in regulation 6.

Regulation 5 provides that the rent determined by a rent assessment committee
will be the rent for the dwelling unless the landlord and contract-holder
agree otherwise.

Regulation 6 sets out the assumptions that the rent assessment committee must
apply whilst determining the rent for the dwelling.

Regulation 7 allows for a rent assessment committee’s involvement in an
application to cease following notice in writing from both the landlord and
the contract-holder confirming they no longer require a determination.

Regulation 8 makes consequential amendments to the Rent Assessment Committees
(England and Wales) Regulations 1971 ( S.I. 1971/1065 ), which specify the
procedure to be followed by a rent assessment committee when considering an
application made to it under these Regulations.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Department of Housing, Welsh Government, Rhydycar Business Park, Merthyr
Tydfil, CF48 1UZ.

