Title: The Building etc. (Amendment) (England) (No. 2) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-04-20
Description: Regulation 2 of these Regulations introduces the Schedule. Part 1 of the Schedule amends the Building Regulations 2010 (S.I. 2010/2214), as they apply in England, so as to impose (in the new paragraphs RA1 and RA2 inserted in Schedule 1 to those Regulations by paragraph 8 of the Schedule) new requirements relating to the provision, in relation to newly built dwellings, of “gigabit-ready physical infrastructure” and a connection to a “gigabit-capable public electronic communications network” (those terms being defined in regulation 44C of those Regulations as amended by paragraph 6 of the Schedule).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/984

## The Building etc. (Amendment) (England) (No. 2) Regulations 2022

    Building And Buildings, England

  Made   23rd September 2022

  Laid before Parliament   26th September 2022

  Coming into force   26th December 2022

      The Secretary of State has consulted the Building Regulations Advisory
Committee for England, and such other bodies as appear to be representative of
the interests concerned, in accordance with section 14(3) of the Building Act
1984 .           The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 1, 3(1), 34, 47(1) and (5), 50(4), 51A(2), 54
and 126 of, paragraphs 2, 7, 8 and 10 of Schedule 1 to, and paragraph 2(2) of
Schedule 4 to, that Act .

### Citation, extent, application and commencement

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building etc. (Amendment) (England) (No.
2) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to England.

1.4

These Regulations come into force on 26th December 2022.

### Amendments to building regulations

2

2.1

The Building Regulations 2010  are amended in accordance with Part 1 of the
Schedule.

2.2

The Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010  are amended in
accordance with Part 2 of the Schedule.

### Transitional provision

3

3.1

The amendments made by paragraphs 2 to 6 and 8 and 9 of the Schedule do not
apply in relation to previously notified work if it—

3.1.a

has started before the day on which these Regulations come into force, or

3.1.b

is started within the period of 12 months beginning with that day.

3.2

In paragraph (1) “ previously notified work ” means building work in respect
of which—

3.2.a

a building notice or an initial notice has been given to a local authority
before the day on which these Regulations come into force, or

3.2.b

full plans have been deposited with a local authority before that day.

3.3

In paragraph (2), “building notice”, “building work”, “full plans” and
“initial notice” each has the same meaning as in the Building Regulations
2010.

      Julia Lopez   Minister of State   Department for Digital, Culture, Media
& Sport     23rd September 2022

Regulation 2

##### Amendments to Building Regulations 2010

1

The Building Regulations 2010 are amended as follows.

2

In regulation 13 (particulars and plans where a building notice given) , after
paragraph (2) insert—

2.2A

In the case of the erection of a dwelling, or a building that is to contain
one or more dwellings, a building notice shall be accompanied by—

2.2A.a

particulars of any public electronic communications network in relation to
which a connection is to be provided,

2.2A.b

if an exemption in regulation 44ZB is proposed to be relied on, evidence in
support of the exemption, and

2.2A.c

if regulation 44ZC is proposed to be relied on—

2.2A.c.i

evidence of the matters mentioned in regulation 44ZC(6)(a) and (b), and

2.2A.c.ii

if paragraph RA1(1)(c)(i) or (ii) of Schedule 1 is also proposed to be relied
on, evidence of the steps taken to establish whether, and if so where, a
distribution point for a gigabit-capable public electronic communications
network (as defined by regulation 44C) is likely to be installed, in a
location relevant for the purposes of paragraph RA(1)(c), within the period of
2 years beginning with the day on which the notice is given.

.

3

In regulation 14 (full plans) , in paragraph (3)(a), for “and (2)” substitute
“, (2) and (2A)” .

4

For the heading to Part 9A  substitute  “Infrastructure for electronic
communications” .

5

In Part 9A, before regulation 44A insert—

######### Exemptions from paragraphs RA1 and RA2 of Schedule 1

5.44ZB

5.44ZB.1

The requirements of paragraphs RA1 and RA2 of Schedule 1 (gigabit-ready
physical infrastructure and connection to gigabit-capable network) do not
apply to buildings—

5.44ZB.1.a

to be occupied by the Ministry of Defence or the armed forces of the Crown, or

5.44ZB.1.b

to be otherwise occupied for purposes connected to national security.

5.44ZB.2

The requirements of paragraph RA1 of Schedule 1 do not apply in relation to a
building if all the following conditions are met—

5.44ZB.2.a

the building is situated in an area that is isolated from public electronic
communications networks of any of the kinds mentioned in regulation 44ZC(2) or
(3),

5.44ZB.2.b

paragraph RA2 of that Schedule does not apply because the case falls within
regulation 44ZC(4), and

5.44ZB.2.c

the prospect of a connection with a network of any of the kinds mentioned in
regulation 44ZC(2) or (3) is considered too remote to justify equipping the
building with gigabit-ready physical infrastructure or an access point.

######### Cases in which paragraph RA2 of Schedule 1 modified or excluded

5.44ZC

5.44ZC.1

The requirement in paragraph RA2 of Schedule 1 has effect subject to
paragraphs (2) to (4).

5.44ZC.2

Where a person carrying out building work of the kind described in the second
column of paragraph RA1 of Schedule 1 (“the developer”)—

5.44ZC.2.a

is unable to secure the provision of a connection with a gigabit-capable
public electronic communications network for a cost not exceeding the cost
cap, but

5.44ZC.2.b

is able to secure the provision of a connection with a high-speed public
electronic communications network for such a cost,

paragraph RA2 of Schedule 1 is to be read as requiring the provision of a
connection with a high-speed public electronic communications network.

5.44ZC.3

Where the developer—

5.44ZC.3.a

is unable to secure the provision of a connection with a high-speed public
electronic communications network for a cost not exceeding the cost cap, but

5.44ZC.3.b

is able to secure the provision of a connection with a USO-standard public
electronic communications network for such a cost,

paragraph RA2 of Schedule 1 is to be read as requiring the provision of a
connection with a USO-standard public electronic communications network.

5.44ZC.4

Where the developer is unable to secure the provision of a connection with a
USO-standard public electronic communications network for a cost not exceeding
the cost cap, paragraph RA2 of Schedule 1 does not apply.

5.44ZC.5

In paragraphs (2) to (4)—

      “ high-speed public electronic communications network ” means a public
electronic communications network that is a high-speed electronic
communications network;           “ USO-standard public electronic
communications network ” means a public electronic communications network that
provides at least the minimum download speed for the time being specified by
virtue of section 65(2B)(a) of the Communications Act 2003  in the universal
service order (as defined by section 151(1) of that Act).

5.44ZC.6

The developer is to be treated as being able to secure the provision of a
connection mentioned in any of paragraphs (2) to (4) for a cost not exceeding
the cost cap unless—

5.44ZC.6.a

the developer has invited at least two suitable providers to make, before the
end of the 30th day after the date of the invitation, an offer to provide a
connection of the kind mentioned in the paragraph in question, and

5.44ZC.6.b

none of those providers has before that time offered to provide that
connection free of charge or at a cost not exceeding the cost cap.

5.44ZC.7

The cost cap is £2,000 in respect of each dwelling.

5.44ZC.8

In calculating the cost to the developer of securing the provision of a
connection—

5.44ZC.8.a

there is to be included value added tax;

5.44ZC.8.b

there is to be excluded—

5.44ZC.8.b.i

the cost to the developer of installing gigabit-ready physical infrastructure
in accordance with paragraph RA1 of Schedule 1,

5.44ZC.8.b.ii

administrative costs of the developer, and

5.44ZC.8.b.iii

the cost to an end-user (as defined by section 151(1) of the Communications
Act 2003) of the provision of a public electronic communications service.

5.44ZC.9

In paragraph (6)(a) “ suitable provider ” means the provider of a public
electronic communications network whom the developer reasonably considers to
be likely to be able to provide the connection referred to.

.

6

6.1

Regulation 44C (interpretation of Part R of Schedule 1)  is amended as
follows.

6.2

In the heading, after “of”, in the first place where it occurs, insert  “Part
9A and of” .

6.3

In the opening words, after “In” insert  “this Part and in” .

6.4

In the definition of “access point”, after “infrastructure” insert  “, or as
the case requires the gigabit-ready physical infrastructure,” .

6.5

After that definition insert—

      “ gigabit-capable electronic communications network ” means an
electronic communications network that is capable of delivering broadband
access services at download speeds of at least 1,000 Mbps;           “
gigabit-capable public electronic communications network ” means a public
electronic communications network that is a gigabit-capable electronic
communications network;           “ gigabit-ready physical infrastructure ”
means physical infrastructure or installations, including elements under joint
ownership, intended to host wired or wireless gigabit-capable public
electronic communications networks;

.

6.6

At the end insert—

      “ public electronic communications network ” has the meaning given by
section 151(1) of the Communications Act 2003.

.

7

In regulation 55 (review of Part 9A and Part R of Schedule 1) , omit paragraph
(2).

8

8.1

In Schedule 1 (requirements), Part R (physical infrastructure for high-speed
electronic communications networks)  is amended as follows.

8.2

For the heading substitute  “Infrastructure for electronic communications” .

8.3

Before paragraph R1 insert—

          Gigabit-ready physical infrastructure         RA1. —(1) Building
work must be carried out so as to ensure that each dwelling is equipped with
gigabit-ready physical infrastructure that extends from a network termination
point for gigabit-capable public electronic communications networks and
reaches—     a     a distribution point, or         b     where the person
carrying out the building work (“the developer”) has no right to install
gigabit-ready physical infrastructure in land in which it would have to be
installed if it were to reach a distribution point, as close as is reasonably
practicable to a distribution point, or         c     where the developer has
no such right and requirement RA2 is excluded or modified by regulation 44ZC,
and would be so excluded or modified even if the gigabit-ready physical
infrastructure were required to reach as close as is reasonably practicable to
a distribution point—     i     as close as is reasonably practicable to a
location at which a distribution point is likely to be installed within the
relevant 2-year period (a “likely future location”), or         ii     where
there is no likely future location that is closer to the building than the
closest distribution point already installed, an access point for gigabit-
capable public electronic communications networks, or             d     where
the developer has no right to install gigabit-ready physical infrastructure in
land beyond the building, an access point for gigabit-capable public
electronic communications networks.         2     Where the work concerns a
building containing more than one dwelling, the work must be carried out so as
to ensure that the building is equipped in addition with a common access point
for gigabit-capable public electronic communications networks.         3
In this paragraph—         “ distribution point ” means a distribution point
for a gigabit-capable public electronic communications network;           “
the relevant 2-year period ” means the period of 2 years beginning with the
earlier of the following—           (a) the day on which a building notice,
initial notice or public body’s notice relating to work to which this
paragraph applies is given;           (b) the day on which full plans relating
to building work to which this paragraph applies are deposited.
Requirements RA1 and RA2 apply to the erection of a dwelling or of a building
that contains one or more dwellings.         Connection to gigabit-capable
network         RA2. Each dwelling must in addition be provided with a
connection to a gigabit-capable public electronic communications network.

.

8.4

In paragraph R1—

8.4.a

for the heading substitute  “High-speed ready in-building physical
infrastructure” , and

8.4.b

in the second column, after “work” insert  “, other than building work to
which paragraph RA1 applies,” .

##### Amendments to Building (Approved Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010

9

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  Regulation 2 of these Regulations introduces the Schedule. Part 1 of the
Schedule amends the Building Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2214 ), as they
apply in England, so as to impose (in the new paragraphs RA1 and RA2 inserted
in Schedule 1 to those Regulations by paragraph 8 of the Schedule) new
requirements relating to the provision, in relation to newly built dwellings,
of “gigabit-ready physical infrastructure” and a connection to a “ gigabit-
capable public electronic communications network ” (those terms being defined
in regulation 44C of those Regulations as amended by paragraph 6 of the
Schedule).

  Paragraph 5 of the Schedule inserts in those Regulations new regulations
44ZB and 44ZC, which modify or exclude the new requirements in certain cases.

  Part 2 of the Schedule contains related amendments to the Building (Approved
Inspectors etc.) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/2215 ), as they apply in
England.

  Regulation 3 makes transitional provision under which the new requirements
do not apply in certain cases.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private or voluntary sector or community bodies
is foreseen.

