Title: The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Commencement No. 2 and Consequential Amendments) Order 2022
Date: 2022-12-02
Description: This Order is the second commencement order made by the Welsh Ministers under the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/906

## The Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Commencement No. 2 and Consequential Amendments) Order 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   12 August 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the powers
conferred on them by section 257(2) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016  and
section 38(1) of the Legislation (Wales) Act 2019 .

### Title, coming into force and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Commencement
No. 2 and Consequential Amendments) Order 2022.

1.2

This Order comes into force on the day after the day on which it is made.

1.3

In this Order, “ the Act ” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

### Appointed day

2

1 December 2022 is the appointed day for the coming into force of the Act in
so far as it is not already in force.

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales) Regulations 2022

3

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Fitness for Human Habitation) (Wales)
Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into
force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act
comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Explanatory Information for Written Statements of Occupation Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

4

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Explanatory Information for Written
Statements of Occupation Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on
which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”,
substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Supplementary Provisions) (Wales) Regulations 2022

5

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Supplementary Provisions) (Wales)
Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into
force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act
comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Supported Standard Contracts) (Supplementary Provisions) (Wales) Regulations 2022

6

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Supported Standard Contracts)
(Supplementary Provisions) (Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which
section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”,
substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Model Written Statements of Contract) (Wales) Regulations 2022

7

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Model Written Statements of Contract)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the
day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into
force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule 9A) Regulations 2022

8

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment of Schedule
9A) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into
force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act
comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Prescribed Forms) (Wales) Regulations 2022

9

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Prescribed Forms) (Wales) Regulations
2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into force”,
substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act comes
into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Review of Decisions) (Wales) Regulations 2022

10

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Review of Decisions) (Wales) Regulations
2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Act comes into force”,
substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Act comes
into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Deposit Schemes) (Required Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022

11

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Deposit Schemes) (Required Information)
(Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the
day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into
force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Safeguarding Property in Abandoned Dwellings) (Wales) Regulations 2022

12

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Safeguarding Property in Abandoned
Dwellings) (Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022
(the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into
force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

13

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted
Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the
Act comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on which section
239 of the Act comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Housing Association Tenancies: Fundamental provisions) Regulations 2022

14

In regulation 1 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Housing Association
Tenancies: Fundamental Provisions) Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which
section 239 of the Act comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the
day on which section 239 of the Act comes into force)” .

### Amendment of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment) Regulations 2022

15

In regulation 1(1) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Amendment)
Regulations 2022 , for “the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 comes into force”, substitute  “1 December 2022 (the day on
which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force)” .

      Julie Jame   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order is the second commencement order made by the Welsh Ministers
under the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“ the Act ”).

  The Act makes provision about tenancies and licences which confer the right
to occupy a dwelling as a home, including provision establishing two kinds of
contract for the purpose of renting homes and for connected purposes.

  The Act is amended by the Renting Homes (Amendment) (Wales)  Act 2021 (asc
3) .

  Article 2 of this Order brings the Act into force, to the extent that it is
not already in force, on 1 December 2022.

  In preparation for the coming into force of the remainder of the Act, 13
substantive statutory instruments have been made under various enabling
provisions within the Act. 12 of those statutory instruments have been made on
the basis that they will come into force on the day on which section 239 of
the Act comes into force.

  Section 38(1) of the Legislation (Wales) Act 2019 (anaw 4) enables the Welsh
Ministers to amend provisions which describe a date or time by reference to
the coming into force of an enactment, with the actual date or time (once
known).

  In exercise of that power, articles 3 to 15 amend the 12 statutory
instruments to replace references to the day on which section 239 of the Act
comes into force with a reference to 1 December 2022.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCEMENT ORDERS

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  The following provisions of the Act have been partially brought into force
by the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (Commencement No. 1) Order 2016 ( S.I.
2016/813) (W. 203) (C. 57)  for the purposes specified in the table below—
Provision Date of Commencement   Section 23 (for the purpose of making
regulations) 5 August 2016 Section 29 (for the purpose of making regulations)
5 August 2016 Section 32(4) (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August
2016 Section 45(3) (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016
Section 94 (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016 Section 112
(for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016 Section 116(4) (for the
purpose of issuing guidance) 5 August 2016 Section 131 (for the purpose of
making regulations) 5 August 2016 Section 146(1) (for the purpose of issuing
guidance) 5 August 2016 Section 203(5) and (6) (for the purpose of making
regulations) 5 August 2016 Section 221 (for the purpose of making regulations)
5 August 2016 Section 236(3) and (4) (for the purpose of making regulations) 5
August 2016 Paragraph 15(10) of Schedule 2 (for the purpose of making
regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 17 of Schedule 2 (for the purpose of
making regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 10(2) of Schedule 3 (for the
purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 15(3) and (4) of
Schedule 3 (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 17
of Schedule 3 (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph
4(7) and (8) of Schedule 4 (for the purpose of making regulations) 5 August
2016 Paragraph 1(6) of Schedule 5 (for the purpose of making regulations) 5
August 2016 Paragraph 5(7) and (8) of Schedule 7 (for the purpose of making
regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 15(2) of Schedule 12 (for the purpose of
making regulations) 5 August 2016 Paragraph 33 of Schedule 12 (for the purpose
of making regulations) 5 August 2016

  See  section 257(1) of the Act for provisions which came into force on the
day after the day on which the Act received Royal Assent. The Act received
Royal Assent on 18 January 2016.

