Title: The Local Authorities (Amendments Relating to Publication of Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-27
Description: These Regulations, which apply in relation to Wales, amend the Local Government Act 1972 (“the 1972 Act”) and the Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Decisions, Documents and Meetings) (Wales) Regulations 2001 (“the 2001 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/412

## The Local Authorities (Amendments Relating to Publication of Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Local Government, Wales

  Made   30 March 2022

  Coming into force   5 May 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by section 50(3)(a) and (4) of the Local Government
and Elections (Wales) Act 2021  and section 22(6) and (7) of the Local
Government Act 2000 .         A draft of this instrument has been laid before,
and approved by a resolution of, Senedd Cymru in accordance with section
174(4) and (5)(f) of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Local Authorities (Amendments Relating
to Publication of Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and they come into
force on 5   May 2022.

### Amendment to the Local Government Act 1972

2

In section 100G of the Local Government Act 1972  (additional information
published by principal councils), after subsection (4) insert—

2.5

But, in relation to a principal council in Wales, the information open to
inspection under subsection (4) must not include a member’s address included
in the register maintained under subsection (1).

### Amendment to the Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Decisions, Documents and Meetings) (Wales) Regulations 2001

3

In regulation 12 of the Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Decisions,
Documents and Meetings) (Wales) Regulations 2001  (additional information
published by local authorities), after paragraph (3) insert—

3.4

But, the information open to inspection under paragraph (3) must not include a
member’s address included in the register maintained under paragraph (1).

      Rebecca Evans   Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the
Welsh Ministers   30 March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations, which apply in relation to Wales, amend the Local
Government Act 1972 (“ the 1972 Act ”) and the Local Authorities (Executive
Arrangements) (Decisions, Documents and Meetings) (Wales) Regulations 2001 (“
the 2001 Regulations ”).

Section 100G(1) of the 1972 Act requires a principal council (in Wales, these
include county and county borough councils, fire and rescue authorities,
National Park authorities and joint boards or joint committees which fall
within section 100J(2) of the 1972 Act and which discharge functions of two or
more principal councils in Wales) to maintain a register stating, amongst
other things, the name and address of every member of the council, including
members of committees and sub-committees. Section 100G(4) of the 1972 Act
requires that register to be open to inspection by the public at the offices
of the council.

Regulation 12(1) of the 2001 Regulations also requires a Welsh local authority
(county and county borough councils operating executive arrangements) to
maintain a register stating, amongst other things, the name and address of
every member of the executive, and every member of each committee of the
executive of that authority. Regulation 12(3) requires that register to be
open to inspection by the public at the principal office of the authority.

These Regulations amend the 1972 Act and the 2001 Regulations to provide that
the addresses of members included in the registers must not be open to
inspection by the public at the offices of principal councils or the principal
offices of local authorities.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of regulatory impact
assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from from
Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ and is published on
www.gov.wales .

