Title: The Competition Appeal Tribunal (Recording and Broadcasting) Order 2022
Date: 2023-08-30
Description: This Order makes provision replacing the temporary provision to identical effect made by the Competition Appeal Tribunal (Coronavirus) (Recording and Broadcasting) Order 2020 (which expires on 25th March 2022, being the date on which the Coronavirus Act 2020 expires). This Order prescribes the conditions to be satisfied for the recording and broadcast of proceedings in the Competition Appeal Tribunal. Where the conditions are satisfied, section 41 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925 (“the 1925 Act”) and section 9 of the Contempt of Court Act 1981 “(the 1981 Act”) do not have effect. Section 41 of the 1925 Act makes it an offence to film in court. Section 9 of the 1981 Act provides that it is a contempt of court to record sound in court except with the permission of the court.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/156

## The Competition Appeal Tribunal (Recording and Broadcasting) Order 2022

    Competition

  Made   10th February 2022

  Coming into force   11th February 2022

      The Lord Chancellor, with the concurrence of the Lord Chief Justice,
makes the following Order under section 32(1) of the Crime and Courts Act 2013
.         In accordance with section 58(4) of that Act, a draft of this Order
was laid before and approved by a resolution of each House of Parliament.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Competition Appeal Tribunal (Recording and
Broadcasting) Order 2022 and comes into force on the day after the day on
which it is made.

### Definitions

2

In this Order—

“ broadcast ” means the transmission to members of the public of a recording
of proceedings of the Tribunal; “ the chairman ” has the meaning given in rule
2(1) of the Rules; “ President ” has the meaning given in rule 2(1) of the
Rules; “ proceedings ” means a hearing before the Tribunal conducted in
accordance with the Rules; “ recording ” includes a visual or sound recording
on any medium from which a single image, a moving image or any sound may be
produced or reproduced, or the making of any such recording, and “ record ”
and “ recorded ” shall be construed accordingly; “ representative ” means a
person within rule 8(1)(a) or (b) of the Rules who represents a party to
proceedings; “ Registrar ” has the meaning given in rule 2(1) of the Rules; “
Rules ” means the Competition Appeal Tribunal Rules 2015 ; and “ Tribunal ”
means the Competition Appeal Tribunal established by section 12 of the
Enterprise Act 2002  however constituted in accordance with section 14 of that
Act.

### Extent and application

3

This Order extends to England and Wales, and applies to the recording of and
broadcast of proceedings in England and Wales.

### Recording and broadcasting proceedings

4

Section 41 of the Criminal Justice Act 1925  and section 9 of the Contempt of
Court Act 1981  do not apply where proceedings are—

4.a

recorded in accordance with the conditions in articles 5 to 7; or

4.b

broadcast in accordance with the conditions in articles 8 and 9.

### Recording

5

Recording is only permitted by a person who—

5.a

is permitted in writing by the President or Registrar of the Tribunal to
record proceedings in the Tribunal; and

5.b

assigns copyright in the recording of proceedings to the Registrar on behalf
of the Tribunal.

6

Recording is only of—

6.a

submissions of a representative;

6.b

exchanges between a representative and the Tribunal;

6.c

exchanges between a representative or the Tribunal and a witness of fact or
expert witness; and

6.d

the Tribunal giving an order, direction or decision, including interim
decisions or interim orders.

7

Recording of proceedings is only with the permission of the chairman, which
permission may be limited to part or parts of the proceedings.

### Broadcast – broadcast of permitted recordings only

8

Only recordings made in accordance with articles 5 to 7 may be broadcast.

### Broadcast – general conditions of use

9

9.1

A report or presentation of proceedings that includes a broadcast must be fair
and accurate having regard to—

9.1.a

the overall content of the report or presentation; and

9.1.b

the context in which the broadcast is presented.

9.2

A broadcast must not be for the purposes of—

9.2.a

a party political broadcast;

9.2.b

advertisement or promotion, except where such advertisement or promotion
relates to a report or presentation of proceedings that includes a broadcast;

9.2.c

light entertainment; or

9.2.d

satire.

### Revocation of the Competition Appeal Tribunal (Coronavirus) (Recording and Broadcasting) Order 2020

10

The Competition Appeal Tribunal (Coronavirus) (Recording and Broadcasting)
Order 2020  is revoked.

James Cartlidge Parliamentary Under Secretary of State Ministry of Justice
10th February 2022 I concur Burnett of Maldon Lord Chief Justice 9th February
2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order makes provision replacing the temporary provision to identical
effect made by the Competition Appeal Tribunal (Coronavirus) (Recording and
Broadcasting) Order 2020 (which expires on 25th March 2022, being the date on
which the Coronavirus Act 2020 expires ). This Order prescribes the conditions
to be satisfied for the recording and broadcast of proceedings in the
Competition Appeal Tribunal. Where the conditions are satisfied, section 41 of
the Criminal Justice Act 1925 (“ the 1925 Act ”) and section 9 of the Contempt
of Court Act 1981 “(the 1981 Act”) do not have effect. Section 41 of the 1925
Act makes it an offence to film in court. Section 9 of the 1981 Act provides
that it is a contempt of court to record sound in court except with the
permission of the court.

Article 3 sets out that the Order applies to all proceedings which take place
in the Competition Appeal Tribunal in England and Wales. Article 4 sets out
that section 41 of the 1925 Act and section 9 of the 1981 Act do not apply
where the conditions of the Order have been satisfied.

Articles 5 to 7 sets out what part of the proceedings may be recorded and who
can record proceedings.

Articles 8 and 9 set out when the recording of a proceeding can be broadcast
and what content is permitted in a broadcast.

Article 10 revokes the Competition Appeal Tribunal (Coronavirus) (Recording
and Broadcasting) Order 2020.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

