Title: The Voter Identification Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-11-19
Description: These Regulations make provision related to the requirement for voters to present photographic identification when voting at polling stations at UK Parliamentary elections in Great Britain. These Regulations also create a similar requirement for persons voting at polling stations at Police and Crime Commissioner elections in England and Wales, and local government elections and referendums in England, and a similar requirement for persons signing a recall petition held in Great Britain under the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (c. 25) when signing the petition at a petition signing place.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1382

## The Voter Identification Regulations 2022

    Council Tax, England       Local Government, England       Police, England
And Wales       Representation Of The People       Town And Country Planning,
England

  Made   22nd December 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by the provisions specified in Schedule 1 to these
Regulations.       The Secretary of State has consulted—     a     the
Electoral Commission, in accordance with section 53(5)(a) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983 , paragraph 16(5) of Schedule 4B to the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 , section 52ZQ(6) of the Local Government
Finance Act 1992 , section 9HE(4) of the Local Government Act 2000 , section
7(1) and (2)(e), (hc) and (k) of the Political Parties, Elections and
Referendums Act 2000 , and paragraph 12(4) of Schedule 5B to the Local
Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 ,         b     the
Information Commissioner and such other persons as the Secretary of State
considered appropriate, in accordance with section 53(5)(b) and (c) of the
Representation of the People Act 1983,         c     the Scottish Ministers,
in accordance with section 15(5C) of the Representation of the People Act 1985
, and         d     the Welsh Ministers, in accordance with section 15(5D) of
the Representation of the People Act 1985 .               A draft of these
Regulations has been laid before, and approved by resolution of, each House of
Parliament in accordance with section 201(2) of the Representation of the
People Act 1983 , section 333(3A) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ,
section 52ZQ(7) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992, section 105(6) of
the Local Government Act 2000 , section 117(2) of the Local Democracy,
Economic Development and Construction Act 2009 , section 154(2)(b) of the
Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011  and section 21(6) of the
Recall of MPs Act 2015 .

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement and saving

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

1.2

This Part and regulation  14(6)  come into force on the 22nd day after the day
on which these Regulations are made.

1.3

Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the remainder of these Regulations come
into force on the 25th day after the day on which these Regulations are made.

1.4

Regulations  38(2) ,  39(2)  and  41  come into force on the first day on
which a provision of Part 3 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021  comes into force,
including where that provision is brought into force for a specified purpose
or in relation to a specified area under section 90 of that Act.

1.5

Regulation  40(2)  and (3) comes into force at the end of 28th February 2023.

1.6

The provisions listed in paragraph  (7)  do not apply in relation to—

1.6.a

a parliamentary general election to which paragraph 18 of Schedule 1 to the
Elections Act 2022  does not apply;

1.6.b

a relevant election, petition or referendum, other than a parliamentary
general election, in respect of which the qualifying date is on or before 3rd
May 2023.

1.7

The provisions are—

1.7.a

Parts 6 to 8;

1.7.b

in Part 9, regulations  38(4)  to (8) and (11) and  39(4)  to (8) and (11);

1.7.c

Part 10.

1.8

In paragraph  (6)(b) , “qualifying date”—

1.8.a

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is a recall petition,
means the beginning date of the signing period as specified in the public
notice of petition given under regulation 14 of the 2016 Regulations ;

1.8.b

otherwise, means the date of poll as specified in the notice of election or
referendum published in accordance with rule 5 of the elections rules.

#### Extent

2

2.1

This Part extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

2.2

Parts 2 to 7 extend to England and Wales and Scotland, and the following also
extend to Northern Ireland—

2.2.a

regulation  23 ;

2.2.b

in regulation  24 , paragraph (2) and, so far as it applies to that paragraph,
paragraph (3).

2.3

Any amendment made by Parts 8 to 10 has the same extent as the provision
amended, except the amendments made by regulations  70  to  75 ,  77  to  82 ,
86 ,  88 ,  90 ,  91(a)  and  92 , which extend to England and Wales and
Scotland only.

#### Interpretation

3

3.1

In these Regulations—

“ the 1983 Act ” means the Representation of the People Act 1983; “ the 2016
Regulations ” means the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations
2016; “ anonymous elector’s document ” means that document as designed by the
Electoral Commission in accordance with regulation  15(1)(a)  or (d) or (4) ;
“ combined authority mayoral election ” means an election for the return of a
mayor as provided for in an order made under Schedule 5B to the Local
Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act 2009;   “ combined county
authority mayoral election ” means an election for the mayor as provided for
in regulations made under Schedule 2 of the Levelling-up and Regeneration Act
2023;   “ digital service ” means the Individual Electoral Registration
Digital Service, which is the digital service provided by the Secretary of
State for the purpose (amongst other purposes) of processing online
applications for electoral identity documents under section 13BD of the 1983
Act  and for verifying information in accordance with regulation  6 ; “
electoral identity document ” means that document as designed by the Electoral
Commission in accordance with regulation  15(1)(b)  or (d) or (4) ; “ identity
document application ” means— an application for an electoral identity
document under section 13BD of the 1983 Act, or an application for an
anonymous elector’s document under section 13BE of the 1983 Act ; “ issued
document record entry ” means an entry in the record kept in accordance with
regulation  20  in respect of an anonymous elector’s document, or an electoral
identity document, issued by a registration officer; “ local authority mayoral
election ” means an election in England for the return of an elected mayor as
defined by section 9H(1) of the Local Government Act 2000 ; “ PCC election ”
means an election of a police and crime commissioner under Chapter 6 of Part 1
of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 ; “ petition signing
place ” has the meaning given in regulation 3(1) of 2016 Regulations; “ recall
petition ” has the meaning given by section 1 of the Recall of MPs Act 2015; “
registration officer ” means an electoral registration officer; “ signing
period ” has the meaning given by section 9(2) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015;
“ signing sheet ” has the meaning given by regulation 10 of the 2016
Regulations; “ specified document ” has the meaning given by rule 37(1H) and
(1K) of the elections rules; “ temporary electoral identity document ” means
an electoral identity document that has a temporary validity, as designed by
the Electoral Commission in accordance with regulation  15(1)(c)  or (d) or
(4).

3.2

In these Regulations other than in regulations  14(7)  and  20(7) , “ bank
holiday ” means—

3.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), in relation to a parliamentary general election, a
day which is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971
in any part of the United Kingdom, and

3.2.b

in relation to any other relevant election, petition or referendum—

3.2.b.i

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is held in an area in
England or Wales, a day which is a bank holiday under that Act in England and
Wales;

3.2.b.ii

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is held in an area in
Scotland, a day which is a bank holiday under that Act in Scotland.

3.3

Where at a parliamentary general election any proceedings are commenced afresh
by reason of a candidate’s death, the meaning of “bank holiday” in paragraph
(2)(b) applies in relation to that election rather than the meaning in
paragraph (2)(a).

3.4

In these Regulations, “ relevant election, petition or referendum ” means an
election, petition or referendum listed in the first column of the following
table; and the “relevant officer” for such an election, petition or referendum
means the officer listed in the corresponding entry in the second column of
that table—

Election, petition or referendum Relevant officer A parliamentary election in
England, Wales or Scotland The returning officer or (in England and Wales) an
acting returning officer A recall petition in England, Wales or Scotland The
petition officer within the meaning of section 6 of the Recall of MPs Act 2015
A PCC election The police area returning officer within the meaning of article
2(1) of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012    A local
government election in England The returning officer A local authority mayoral
election The returning officer within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Local
Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007    A
combined authority mayoral election The   combined authority  returning
officer within the meaning of article 2 of the Combined Authorities (Mayoral
Elections) Order 2017      A combined county authority mayoral election  The
combined county authority returning officer within the meaning of article 2 of
the Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017 A referendum under
Part 1A of the Local Government Act 2000    The counting officer within the
meaning of regulation 9 of the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums)
(England) Regulations 2012    A referendum under Chapter 4ZA of Part 1 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992    The counting officer within the meaning
of regulation 15 of the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council
Tax Increases) (England) Regulations 2012    A referendum under Schedule 4B to
the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 The counting officer within the meaning
of regulation 9 of the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012

3.5

Except in Part 7, a reference in these Regulations to a numbered rule in the
elections rules is to be read as a reference to—

3.5.a

in the case of a parliamentary election, the rule of that number in the
parliamentary election rules in Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act ,

3.5.b

in the case of a recall petition, the corresponding regulation in the
regulations made under section 18(1) of the Recall of MPs Act 2015, or

3.5.c

the corresponding rule in the rules made under—

3.5.c.i

in the case of a PCC election, section 58(1)(a) of the Police Reform and
Social Responsibility Act 2011 ,

3.5.c.ii

in the case of a local government election in England, section 36 of the 1983
Act ,

3.5.c.iii

in the case of a local authority mayoral election, section 9HE(1)(a) of the
Local Government Act 2000,

3.5.c.iv

in the case of a combined authority mayoral election, paragraph 12(1)(a) of
Schedule 5B to the Local Democracy, Economic Development and Construction Act
2009,

3.5.c.iva

in the case of a combined county authority mayoral election, paragraph
12(1)(a) of Schedule 2 to the Regeneration and Levelling-up Act 2023,

3.5.c.v

in the case of a referendum under Part 1A of the Local Government Act 2000,
section 9MG(2) or (3) of that Act ,

3.5.c.vi

in the case of a referendum under Chapter 4ZA of Part 1 of the Local
Government Finance Act 1992, section 52ZQ(1) or (2) of that Act, or

3.5.c.vii

in the case of a referendum under Schedule 4B to the Town and Country Planning
Act 1990, paragraph 16(1) of that Schedule.

### Applications for electoral identity or anonymous elector’s documents

#### Identity document applications: general

4

4.1

An identity document application must be in writing, and must state—

4.1.a

the applicant’s full name;

4.1.b

the address in respect of which the applicant is registered, or has applied to
be registered, on the register of parliamentary electors or local government
electors;

4.1.c

where the applicant is or has applied to be registered in pursuance of—

4.1.c.i

a service declaration, the applicant’s present address, correspondence address
or British Forces Post Office Number;

4.1.c.ii

an overseas elector’s declaration, the applicant’s present address;

4.1.d

the applicant’s date of birth or, if they are not able to provide that
information, the reason why they are not able to do so and a statement as to
whether the applicant is under 18 years old;

4.1.e

the applicant’s national insurance number or, if they are not able to provide
that information, the reason why they are not able to do so;

4.1.f

an indication as to whether, if the identity document application is granted,
the applicant considers that it is necessary for the applicant to collect the
document in person instead of the document being delivered to the relevant
delivery address, and if so the reason why the applicant considers that
collection is necessary;

4.1.g

for an identity document application under section 13BE of the 1983 Act, the
fact that the applicant has applied or is applying to have an anonymous entry
on the register;

4.1.h

an indication as to whether, if the identity document application is granted,
the applicant requires a Braille, easy read or large print explanation of the
anonymous elector’s document or the electoral identity document issued;

4.1.i

a declaration by the applicant that the information provided in the
application is true;

4.1.j

the date of the application.

4.2

Where an applicant makes an identity document application by virtue of section
13BD(1)(b)(ii) or section 13BE(1)(b)(ii) of the 1983 Act (applicants
registered in Wales who will be entitled to vote in police and crime
commissioner elections upon attaining the age of 18)—

4.2.a

if the applicant is not able to provide their date of birth, the statement
referred to in paragraph  (1)(d)  must indicate whether the applicant is—

4.2.a.i

under the age of 16, or

4.2.a.ii

aged 16 or 17;

4.2.b

paragraph  (1)(e)  does not apply where the applicant is under the age of 16.

4.3

An identity document application must also include—

4.3.a

a photograph of the applicant which meets the requirements set out in Schedule
2, and

4.3.b

where, in accordance with paragraph 3(2) of that Schedule, the applicant is
unable to provide a photograph that complies with paragraph 3(1)(d) or (e) of
that Schedule, the reason why they are not able to do so.

4.4

An identity document application may (but need not) include the applicant’s
email address and telephone number.

4.5

Where the applicant is not able to provide a national insurance number, the
applicant may provide as part of an identity document application a copy of
any of the documents listed in—

4.5.a

where the applicant has applied or is applying to have an anonymous entry on
the register, regulation  7(3)  to (5);

4.5.b

otherwise, regulation  7(4)  or (5).

4.6

A registration officer may authorise an applicant to provide anything which
must or may be included in or with, or which may be provided as part of, an
identity document application in accordance with this regulation to the
registration officer in person and, where the officer does so, the
registration officer must transfer anything provided by the applicant into an
application in writing.

4.7

In paragraph  (1)(f) , “ relevant delivery address ” means—

4.7.a

where paragraph  (1)(c)  applies, the address provided in accordance with that
paragraph;

4.7.b

where paragraph  (1)(c)  does not apply, the address provided in accordance
with paragraph  (1)(b) .

#### Identity document applications made through the digital service

5

5.1

This regulation applies where, by virtue of arrangements made by the Secretary
of State, an identity document application for an electoral identity document
under section 13BD of the 1983 Act may be made through the digital service.

5.2

The Secretary of State may complete an identity document application in part
for an applicant using information provided by the applicant as part of an
application, or partially completed application, under section 10ZC or 10ZD of
the 1983 Act  for registration in, or alteration of, a register of electors
made through or completed using the digital service.

5.3

The Secretary of State must send to the appropriate registration officer any
identity document application the Secretary of State receives  , subject to
paragraph (4),   together with a reference number unique to that application.

5.4

Where an application made through the digital service includes the applicant’s
national insurance number the Secretary of State—

5.4.a

may send the registration officer that application without the national
insurance number, and

5.4.b

where the Secretary of State does so, must indicate to the registration
officer that a national insurance number was included when the application was
made by the applicant.

#### Verification of information provided in an identity document application

6

6.1

On receipt of an identity document application made otherwise than through the
digital service, a registration officer must disclose the applicant’s name,
relevant address, date of birth and national insurance number (“the first
stage information”) to the Secretary of State for   Housing, Communities and
Local Government   in such format and through such an infrastructure system as
the Secretary of State for   Housing, Communities and Local Government   may
have notified to the registration officer in writing.

6.2

Following receipt of the first stage information from the registration officer
or (in the case of an application made through, or partially completed using,
the digital service) from an applicant, the Secretary of State for   Housing,
Communities and Local Government   may disclose the first stage information to
the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.

6.3

Where the first stage information has been disclosed to the Secretary of State
for Work and Pensions under paragraph (2), the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions may compare it against—

6.3.a

the name, address, date of birth and national insurance number of individuals
appearing in the following types of data kept by the Secretary of State—

6.3.a.i

data kept for the purposes of functions relating to social security (including
such information kept on behalf of the Department for Social Development), and

6.3.a.ii

data relating to working tax credit, child tax credit and child benefit (being
information kept on behalf of His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs);

6.3.b

any other information contained in such types of data which relates to the
information disclosed under paragraph (2).

6.4

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the first stage information (“the second stage information”) to
the Secretary  of State  for   Housing, Communities and Local Government .

6.5

On receipt of the second stage information, the Secretary of State for
Housing, Communities and Local Government   may disclose that information—

6.5.a

to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, or

6.5.b

to the registration officer to whom the identity document application has been
made, or, as the case may be, to whom the Secretary of State has sent the
application under regulation  5(3) .

6.6

Paragraph (3) applies to the second stage information where it has been
disclosed to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under paragraph
(5)(a) as it applies to the first stage information disclosed under paragraph
(2).

6.7

The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions may disclose the results of the
comparison of the second stage information (“the third stage information”) to
the Secretary  of State   for   Housing, Communities and Local Government .

6.8

On receipt of the third stage information, the Secretary of State for
Housing, Communities and Local Government   may—

6.8.a

compare the third stage information against the information provided in the
identity document application, and

6.8.b

notify the registration officer to whom the identity document application has
been made or, as the case may be, to whom the Secretary of State has sent the
application under regulation  5(3) , as to whether the comparison in sub-
paragraph (a) resulted in a match.

6.9

The registration officer must take into account any information disclosed by,
or notification received from, the Secretary of State for   Housing,
Communities and Local Government   in accordance with this regulation when
determining the identity document application.

6.10

This regulation does not apply where—

6.10.a

the applicant—

6.10.a.i

makes an application under section 10ZC or 10ZD of the 1983 Act at the same
time as the identity document application,

6.10.a.ii

the name, date of birth and national insurance number of the applicant are
disclosed in accordance with   or 29ZAA(3)   of the Representation of the
People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001  or   or 29ZAA(3)   of the
Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 , and

6.10.a.iii

the name, date of birth and national insurance number disclosed are identical
to the name, date of birth and national insurance number provided by the
applicant in the identity document application;

6.10.b

the applicant—

6.10.b.i

is under the age of 16, or

6.10.b.ii

does not provide both a date of birth and a national insurance number in
accordance with regulation  4(1)(d)  and (e) respectively.

6.11

Where paragraph  (10)(a)  applies, the registration officer must take into
account any results disclosed by the Secretary of State for   Housing,
Communities and Local Government   in accordance with regulation 29ZA  or
29ZAA   of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001 or (as the case may be) with regulation 29ZA  or 29ZAA   of the
Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 in respect of the
application described in paragraph  (10)(a)(i)  when determining the identity
document application.

6.12

In paragraph (1)—

“ infrastructure system ” has the meaning given in Schedule 3A to the
Communications Act 2003 ; “ relevant address ” means the address provided by
the applicant in accordance with regulation  4(1)(b) .

#### Power to request additional evidence where certain information is unavailable or where the registration officer considers it necessary

7

7.1

A registration officer must require an applicant to provide additional
evidence where the registration officer considers additional evidence is
necessary to verify the identity of the applicant in respect of their identity
document application, including where the officer considers it is necessary
because the applicant is not able to state the information required by
regulation  4(1)(d)  or (e).

7.2

Where a registration officer requires additional evidence—

7.2.a

the officer must, at the same time, inform the applicant of—

7.2.a.i

the evidence submission date, which is the date 28 days after the day on which
the registration officer requires the additional evidence, and

7.2.a.ii

the fact that the registration officer may reject the applicant’s identity
document application in the event that the applicant fails or refuses to
provide the additional evidence on or before the evidence submission date; and

7.2.b

if the applicant provides additional evidence, it must be provided in
accordance with—

7.2.b.i

where the applicant has or is applying to have an anonymous entry on the
register of parliamentary electors or local government electors, one of
paragraphs (3) to (6);

7.2.b.ii

otherwise, one of paragraphs (4) to (6).

7.3

The applicant may provide a copy, or where the registration officer considers
it appropriate, the original, of one of the following documents—

7.3.a

the applicant’s passport;

7.3.b

the applicant’s identity card issued in the European Economic Area;

7.3.c

the applicant’s biometric immigration document issued in the United Kingdom in
accordance with regulations made under section 5 of the Borders Act 2007 ;

7.3.d

the applicant’s electoral identity card issued in Northern Ireland;

7.3.e

the applicant’s photocard driving licence granted in the United Kingdom or
driving licence granted by a Crown Dependency, which bears a photograph of the
applicant.

7.4

The applicant may provide a copy, or where the registration officer considers
it appropriate, the original of—

7.4.a

one of the following documents, which, except in relation to paragraph (vii)
must have been issued in the United Kingdom or Crown Dependencies—

7.4.a.i

the applicant’s birth certificate;

7.4.a.ii

the applicant’s marriage or civil partnership certificate;

7.4.a.iii

the applicant’s adoption certificate;

7.4.a.iv

the applicant’s firearms certificate granted under the Firearms Act 1968 ;

7.4.a.v

the record of a decision on bail made in respect of the applicant in
accordance with section 5(1) of the Bail Act 1976 ;

7.4.a.vi

the applicant’s driving licence, which is not in the form of a photocard;

7.4.a.vii

the applicant’s driving licence, granted other than in the United Kingdom or
Crown Dependencies, which bears a photograph of the applicant and which must
be valid for at least 12 months from the date the applicant entered the United
Kingdom; and

7.4.b

two other documents, each of which may be either from sub-paragraph (a) or
paragraph (5).

7.5

The applicant may provide a copy, or where the registration officer considers
it appropriate, the original, of four documents, each of which may be any of
the following kinds of evidence and which must bear the applicant’s full name
as stated on the identify document application—

7.5.a

a financial statement, including but not limited to—

7.5.a.i

a mortgage statement;

7.5.a.ii

a bank or building society statement or a letter from a bank or building
society confirming that the applicant has opened an account with that bank or
building society;

7.5.a.iii

a credit card statement;

7.5.a.iv

a pension statement;

7.5.b

a council tax demand letter or statement;

7.5.c

a utility bill;

7.5.d

a Form P45 or Form P60 issued to the applicant by their employer or former
employer;

7.5.e

a statement of benefits or entitlement to benefits, such as a statement of
child benefit, within the meaning of section 141 of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , or a letter confirming that the
applicant is entitled to housing benefit, within the meaning of section 130 of
that Act .

7.6

The applicant may provide an attestation which must—

7.6.a

confirm that the applicant is the person named in the identity document
application,

7.6.b

state that the qualifying attestor is aware of the penalty for providing false
information to a registration officer,

7.6.c

be in writing and signed by the qualifying attestor,

7.6.d

state the full name, date of birth, address, electoral number and occupation
of the qualifying attestor, and

7.6.e

state the date on which it is made.

7.7

In paragraph (6), the “qualifying attestor” is a person—

7.7.a

whom the registration officer is satisfied is of good standing in the
community,

7.7.b

who is registered as an elector—

7.7.b.i

where the registration officer to whom the application is made is appointed
for an area in England or Wales, in a local authority area in England or
Wales,

7.7.b.ii

where the registration officer to whom the application is made is appointed
for an area in Scotland, in a local authority area in Scotland,

7.7.c

who is not the spouse, civil partner, parent, grandparent, brother, sister,
child or grandchild of the applicant, and

7.7.ca

regulation 25A(3) of the Representation of the People (Northern Ireland)
Regulations 2008;

7.7.d

who has not already signed   a relevant identity attestation   for two
applicants since, whichever is the later of,—

7.7.d.i

the date on which the revised register in which that person’s name appears was
last published under section 13(1) of the 1983 Act , or

7.7.d.ii

the date on which a notice specifying that person’s entry in the register was
issued under (as the case may be) section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B(3), (3B) or
(3D) or 13BC(3) or (6) of that Act  (and if there has been more than one such
notice, the date on which the last one was issued).

7.7A

In paragraph (7)(d), a relevant identity attestation is an attestation
provided in accordance with—

7.7A.a

paragraph (6);

7.7A.b

regulation   26B(6) or (6ZA) or 56C(5A) or (6)   of the Representation of the
People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001;

7.7A.c

regulation   26B(6) or (6ZA) or 56C(5A) or (6)   of the Representation of the
People (Scotland) Regulations 2001;

7.7A.d

paragraph 16C(5) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections
Order 2012;

7.7A.e

regulation   72B(5A) or (6)   of the Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition)
Regulations 2016.

7.8

This regulation does not apply where—

7.8.a

the applicant is under the age of 16,

7.8.b

there is information available to the registration officer from any
educational record relating to the applicant, and

7.8.c

that information is sufficient to satisfy the registration officer as to the
applicant’s identity.

7.9

In this regulation, “ Crown Dependency ” means the Bailiwick of Jersey, the
Bailiwick of Guernsey or the Isle of Man.

#### Registration officer’s right to inspect certain records

8

8.1

A registration officer is authorised to inspect, for the purpose of
determining identity document applications, records kept (in whatever form)
by—

8.1.a

an authority listed in paragraph (2), or

8.1.b

any person providing services to, or authorised to exercise any function of,
any such authority.

8.2

Those authorities are—

8.2.a

the council by which the registration officer was appointed,

8.2.b

where the council by which the registration officer was appointed is a council
for a district in a county for which there is a county council, that county
council, and

8.2.c

any superintendent registrar of births, deaths and marriages, registrar of
births and deaths or registrar of marriages.

8.3

A registration officer is authorised to make copies of information contained
in such records.

#### Power to require information

9

9.1

A registration officer may require any person to give information required for
the purpose of determining an identity document application.

9.2

A registration officer may not use the power conferred by paragraph (1) to
require an applicant to provide information to assist the registration officer
in determining, in connection with that person’s application, whether that
applicant is the person named in that application.

9.3

If a person fails to comply with a requisition under paragraph (1), that
person is liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding level 3 on the
standard scale.

### Determination of applications

#### Postponement of determination of identity document applications

10

10.1

Where an identity document application is received by a registration officer
during the postponement period for a relevant election, petition or referendum
held in the area for which the registration officer is appointed, the
registration officer—

10.1.a

must not determine the application in accordance with regulation  11(2)
before the postponement date, and

10.1.b

subject to paragraph (2), must notify the applicant that the application will
not be determined before that date.

10.2

Paragraph (1)(b) does not apply where the application is received by the
registration officer on the postponement date.

10.3

In this regulation—

10.3.a

the “ postponement date ” in relation to a relevant election, petition or
referendum means—

10.3.a.i

the relevant date of that election, petition or referendum, or

10.3.a.ii

where the date under paragraph (i) falls within the postponement period for a
subsequent relevant election, petition or referendum held in the area for
which the registration officer is appointed, the working day before the date
under paragraph (i);

10.3.b

the “postponement period” for a relevant election, petition or referendum is
the period—

10.3.b.i

beginning at 5pm on the sixth working day before the relevant date, and

10.3.b.ii

ending at 10pm on the relevant date;

10.3.c

the “ relevant date ” in relation to a relevant election, petition or
referendum means the day of the poll or, in the case of a recall petition, the
last day of the signing period for that petition;

10.3.d

“ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, Good Friday,
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or a bank holiday.

#### Determination of identity document applications

11

11.1

A registration officer may refuse an identity document application where—

11.1.a

the registration officer has required the applicant to provide additional
evidence in accordance with regulation  7 , and

11.1.b

the applicant has failed or refused to comply with that requirement on or
before the evidence submission date described in regulation  7(2)(a)(i) .

11.2

Except where an identity document application is refused in accordance with
paragraph (1), the registration officer must—

11.2.a

grant an identity document application if the registration officer is
satisfied that the following conditions are met—

11.2.a.i

conditions 1 and 2, and

11.2.a.ii

either condition 3 or 4, or

11.2.b

refuse the application if not so satisfied.

11.3

Condition 1 is that the application meets the requirements set out in
regulation  4(1)  to (3).

11.4

Condition 2 is that the applicant is the person named in the application.

11.5

Condition 3 is that—

11.5.a

the applicant is registered in a register of parliamentary electors in Great
Britain, or a register of local government electors in England, which is
maintained by the registration officer, or

11.5.b

the registration officer is required to enter the applicant in such a register
in accordance with section 10ZC(1) of the 1983 Act.

11.6

Condition 4 is that—

11.6.a

either—

11.6.a.i

the applicant is registered in a register of local government electors in
Wales which is maintained by the registration officer, or

11.6.a.ii

the registration officer is required to enter the applicant in that register
in accordance with section 10ZC(1) of the 1983 Act, and

11.6.b

the applicant is entitled to vote at an election of a police and crime
commissioner for a police area in Wales in accordance with section 52(1A) of
the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011 , or will be so entitled
on attaining the age of 18.

#### Notification following determination

12

12.1

Where a registration officer grants or refuses an identity document
application, the registration officer must notify the applicant of that
determination, together with any other information required by this
regulation.

12.2

Where the registration officer grants the identity document application, the
registration officer must also notify the applicant whether the electoral
identity document or, as the case may be, the anonymous elector’s document to
be issued to the applicant will be delivered to the applicant by post or made
available for collection by the applicant, as determined in accordance with
regulation  17 .

12.3

Where the registration officer refuses an identity document application, the
registration officer must also notify the applicant of—

12.3.a

the reason for that refusal,

12.3.b

the right of appeal under section 56(1)(ac) of the 1983 Act , and

12.3.c

the time in which any notice of appeal under that section must be given (in
accordance with regulation  13(1) ).

12.4

Where the registration officer notifies the applicant other than by written
notification, the registration officer must, as soon as reasonably practicable
after that notification send a written notification containing the same
information to the relevant delivery address (which has the same meaning as in
regulation  4(7) ).

#### Appeal following determination

13

13.1

A person who wishes to appeal under section 56(1)(ac) of the 1983 Act against
the decision of a registration officer to refuse an identity document
application must give notice of the appeal to the registration officer, before
the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the day on which the
notification under regulation  12  is given, specifying the grounds of the
appeal.

13.2

Where regulation  12(4)  applies in respect of the refusal, the reference to
notification in paragraph (1) is to be read as the first notification under
regulation  12  to that person.

13.3

The registration officer must forward any such notice to the relevant court in
the manner directed by rules of court together with a statement setting out—

13.3.a

the material facts which in the registration officer’s opinion have been
established in the case,

13.3.b

the registration officer’s decision, and

13.3.c

the registration officer’s representations on any point specified as a ground
of appeal.

13.4

The registration officer must also give to the relevant court any other
information which the court may require and which the registration officer is
able to give.

13.5

Where it appears to a registration officer that any notices of appeal given to
the registration officer are based on similar grounds, the registration
officer must inform the relevant court of this to enable the court (if it
thinks fit) to consolidate the appeals or select a case as a test case.

13.6

In this regulation, “relevant court”—

13.6.a

where the registration officer is appointed for an area in England or Wales,
means the county court;

13.6.b

where the registration officer is appointed for an area in Scotland, means the
sheriff.

#### Processing of information provided in connection with an identity document application

14

14.1

If a person provides an original document under regulation  7(3) , (4) or (5),
the registration officer must make a copy of that document and return the
original document to the person who provided it.

14.2

In the remainder of this regulation, the “relevant documents and information”
in respect of an identity document application means—

14.2.a

the application form or, in the case of an application made through the
digital service, the information contained in the application  transmitted to
the registration officer by the Secretary of State , and

14.2.b

any other information or documents provided to the registration officer in
connection with the application or, in the case of original documents which
are returned under paragraph (1), a copy of such documents.

14.3

The registration officer must retain the relevant documents and information—

14.3.a

where the registration officer grants the identity document application, for
the period of 28 working days beginning with the day on which the registration
officer granted the application;

14.3.b

where the registration officer refuses the identity document application, for
the period of 12 months beginning with the day on which the registration
officer refused that application.

14.4

Information disclosed under regulation  6  must not be disclosed to any other
person, except—

14.4.a

for the purpose of determining the application in connection with which the
information was disclosed, or

14.4.b

for the purpose of any civil or criminal proceedings.

14.5

A person who discloses information in breach of paragraph  (4)  is guilty of
an offence and liable—

14.5.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or to a fine (or both);

14.5.b

on summary conviction—

14.5.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding the general
limit in a magistrates’ court, or to a fine (or both);

14.5.b.ii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months or to a fine
not exceeding the statutory maximum (or both).

14.6

Any information disclosed under regulation  6  must be processed in accordance
with any requirements as to the processing of information that may have been
imposed by the Secretary of State for   Housing, Communities and Local
Government   in writing in advance of that processing, including requirements
as to the transfer, storage, destruction and security of that information.

14.7

In this regulation—

“ copy ” includes an electronic copy; “ working day ” means any day other than
a Saturday, Sunday, Good Friday, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or a bank
holiday; “ bank holiday ” means— where the registration officer is appointed
for an area in England or Wales, a day which is a bank holiday under the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in England and Wales; where the
registration officer is appointed for an area in Scotland, a day which is a
bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 in Scotland.

### Design, issuing, delivery, collection etc. of electoral identity documents, anonymous elector’s documents etc.

#### Design of documents

##### Design of electoral identity documents, anonymous elector’s documents, etc.

15

15.1

The Electoral Commission must design the following—

15.1.a

an anonymous elector’s document;

15.1.b

an electoral identity document;

15.1.c

a temporary electoral identity document;

15.1.d

a dual Welsh and English version of each of the designs referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (c).

15.2

A document designed by the Electoral Commission in accordance with paragraph
(1) must meet the requirements for that document as set out in Schedule 3.

15.3

The Electoral Commission must make available—

15.3.a

each of the designs referred to in paragraph (1)(a) to (c) to a registration
officer who is appointed for an area in England or Scotland;

15.3.b

the dual Welsh and English version of each of the designs referred to in
paragraph (1)(a) to (c) to a registration officer who is appointed for an area
in Wales.

15.4

The Electoral Commission may design a revised version of a document designed
in accordance with paragraph (1), and where the Electoral Commission does so—

15.4.a

paragraphs (2) and (3) apply to a revised version as they apply to the
document designed in accordance with paragraph (1), and

15.4.b

the design of a revised version of a document referred to in paragraph (1)
does not invalidate any previous version of the document issued under these
Regulations before the day on which the revised version is made available to
the registration officer.

#### Issuing and delivery or collection of electoral identity documents and anonymous elector’s documents

##### Issuing of electoral identity documents and anonymous elector’s documents

16

16.1

Where the registration officer grants an identity document application, the
registration officer must issue the applicant with an electoral identity
document or, as the case may be, an anonymous elector’s document which must—

16.1.a

use the version of the design for that document most recently made available
to the registration officer in accordance with regulation  15 ,

16.1.b

state—

16.1.b.i

in the case of an electoral identity document, the applicant’s full name,

16.1.b.ii

in the case of an anonymous elector’s document, the applicant’s electoral
number,

16.1.c

contain the photograph of the applicant provided in accordance with regulation
4(3) ,

16.1.d

state the date of issue,

16.1.e

state an appropriate identifier, and

16.1.f

in the case of an electoral identity document, state—

16.1.f.i

the name of the local authority by which the registration officer is
appointed, and

16.1.f.ii

states the recommended renewal date for the document.

16.2

In paragraph  (1)(b)(ii) , the applicant’s “electoral number” is the number—

16.2.a

allocated to the applicant as stated in the register of electors, or

16.2.b

where an entry related to the applicant is added to the register in pursuance
of a notice issued under section 13A(2), 13AB(2), 13B(3), (3B) or (3D) or
13BC(3) or (6) of the 1983 Act, as stated in the copy of that notice.

16.3

In paragraph  (1)(e) , an “appropriate identifier” is an identifier made up of
up to 20 numbers or letters which—

16.3.a

is allocated by the registration officer in respect of an electoral identity
document or, as the case may be, an anonymous elector’s document, and

16.3.b

is not an identifier allocated by that registration officer in respect of any
other electoral identity document or anonymous elector’s document.

16.4

In paragraph  (1)(f)(ii) , the “recommended renewal date” for an electoral
identity document is the date which is the tenth anniversary of the date of
issue of that document.

##### Delivery or collection of issued electoral identity documents and anonymous elector’s documents

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph  (3) , the registration officer must arrange for an
electoral identity document or anonymous elector’s document issued in
accordance with regulation  16  (“the issued document”) to be delivered by
post to the applicant’s relevant delivery address (which has the meaning given
in regulation  4(7) ).

17.2

An anonymous elector’s document to which paragraph (1) applies must be
delivered in an envelope or other form of covering so as not to disclose to
any other person that the applicant has an anonymous entry.

17.3

The registration officer may arrange for the issued document to be made
available for collection by the applicant in person (instead of arranging
delivery in accordance with paragraph (1)) where—

17.3.a

an indication is given by the applicant in accordance with regulation  4(1)(f)
, and

17.3.b

the registration officer considers that it is necessary to make the issued
document available for collection to ensure that the applicant receives the
issued document.

17.4

Where an issued document is made available for collection in accordance with
paragraph  (3) , the registration officer must notify the applicant—

17.4.a

that the issued document is available to be collected,

17.4.b

of the location where, and the times during which, the issued document may be
collected, and

17.4.c

that the issued document may only be collected by the applicant in person, and

17.4.d

where the issued document is an anonymous elector’s document, that the
applicant must bring their certificate of anonymous registration when
collecting the document, and must show the certificate upon request.

17.5

Where the applicant gives an indication in accordance with regulation  4(1)(h)
, the registration officer must also arrange for a Braille, easy read or large
print explanation of the issued document to be delivered or made available for
collection (as the case may be) with the issued document.

17.6

In paragraph  (4)(d) , “ certificate of anonymous registration ” means the
certificate issued to an anonymous elector in accordance with regulation 45G
of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001 or
regulation 45F of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations
2001.

17.7

The registration officer may combine a notification under paragraph  (4)  with
a notification under regulation  12 .

#### Issuing of temporary electoral identity documents

##### Issuing of temporary electoral identity documents

18

18.1

This regulation applies where, at any time during the relevant period for a
relevant election, petition or referendum, a registration officer issues an
applicant with an electoral identity document in accordance with regulation
16 .

18.2

The registration officer may also issue the applicant with a temporary
electoral identity document where the registration officer is satisfied that
the issued electoral identity document may not be delivered in time to the
applicant for the applicant to be able to use that document at the relevant
election, petition or referendum.

18.3

In paragraph (1), “ the relevant period ” in relation to a relevant election,
petition or referendum means the period—

18.3.a

beginning at 5pm on the sixth working day before the relevant date, and

18.3.b

ending at—

18.3.b.i

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is a recall petition—

18.3.b.i.aa

5pm on the relevant date, or

18.3.b.i.bb

if earlier, the beginning of the final hour during which the petition will be
available for signing at the allotted petition signing place on the relevant
date;

18.3.b.ii

otherwise, 5pm on the relevant date.

18.4

In paragraph (3)—

18.4.a

“ allotted petition signing place ” means the petition signing place allotted
to the applicant in accordance with regulation 16 of the 2016 Regulations;

18.4.b

the “relevant date” is—

18.4.b.i

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is a recall petition, the
last day of the signing period for that petition;

18.4.b.ii

otherwise, the date of the poll at that election or referendum;

18.4.c

“ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, Good Friday,
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or a bank holiday.

##### Temporary electoral identity documents: supplemental

19

19.1

A temporary electoral identity document issued in accordance with regulation
18  is valid only on the relevant date.

19.2

The registration officer must ensure that a temporary electoral identity
document issued to an applicant in accordance with regulation  18  (“the
issued temporary document”)—

19.2.a

use the version of the design for that document most recently made available
to the registration officer in accordance with regulation  15 ,

19.2.b

states—

19.2.b.i

the applicant’s full name,

19.2.b.ii

the date of issue,

19.2.b.iii

the name of the local authority by which the registration officer is
appointed,

19.2.b.iv

an appropriate identifier,

19.2.b.v

the date for which the issued temporary document is valid,

19.2.c

contains the photograph of the applicant provided in accordance with
regulation  4(3) , and

19.2.d

is signed by the registration officer.

19.3

In paragraph  (2)(b)(iv) , an “appropriate identifier” is an identifier made
up of up to 20 numbers or letters which—

19.3.a

is allocated by the registration officer in respect of an issued temporary
document, and

19.3.b

is not an identifier allocated by that registration officer in respect of any
other temporary electoral identity document which is valid on the same date.

19.4

The registration officer must, in relation to the issued temporary document—

19.4.a

arrange for the issued temporary document to be made available for collection
by the applicant in person,

19.4.b

notify the applicant—

19.4.b.i

that the issued temporary document is available to be collected,

19.4.b.ii

of the location where and the times during which the issued document may be
collected, and

19.4.b.iii

that the issued temporary document may only be collected by the applicant in
person, and

19.4.c

update the issued document record entry relating to the electoral identity
document referred to in regulation  18(1)  accordingly.

19.5

Where the applicant gives an indication in accordance with regulation  4(1)(h)
, the registration officer must also arrange for a Braille, easy read or large
print explanation of the issued temporary document to be made available for
collection with the issued temporary document.

19.6

The registration officer may combine a notification under paragraph (4)(b)
with a notification under regulation  12 .

19.7

In paragraph (1), “ the relevant date ” has the meaning given in regulation
18(4)(b) .

#### Record of issued documents

##### Record of anonymous elector’s documents and electoral identity documents

20

20.1

A registration officer must keep a record of all anonymous elector’s documents
and electoral identity documents issued by the registration officer (in this
Chapter, “the record”).

20.2

The registration officer must—

20.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after issuing an anonymous elector’s
document or electoral identity document in accordance with regulation  16 , 29
or  30(3) , make an entry in the record for that document;

20.2.b

keep entries related to electoral identity documents in a separate part of the
record from those related to anonymous elector’s documents.

20.3

An entry made in accordance with paragraph  (2)(a)  must contain the
following—

20.3.a

the date of issue and the appropriate identifier of the document;

20.3.b

the full name of the person to whom the document was issued;

20.3.c

the address provided by the person in accordance with regulation  4(1)(b) ;

20.3.d

any address provided by the person in accordance with regulation  4(1)(c) ;

20.3.e

any indication given by the person in accordance with regulation  4(1)(f) ;

20.3.f

any indication given by the person in accordance with regulation  4(1)(h) ;

20.3.g

a copy of the person’s photograph provided in accordance with regulation  4(3)
;

20.3.h

any email address or telephone number provided in accordance with regulation
4(4) ;

20.3.i

in respect of an electoral identity document, the name of the local authority
by which the registration officer is appointed;

20.3.j

an indication of whether a temporary electoral identity document was also
issued in accordance with regulation  18 , and if so—

20.3.j.i

the appropriate identifier of that temporary electoral identity document, and

20.3.j.ii

the relevant date (which has the meaning given in regulation  18(4)(b) ).

20.4

Where—

20.4.a

an anonymous elector’s document is issued in accordance with regulation 29 or
30(3) , the reference in paragraph  (3)(g)  to a photograph provided in
accordance with regulation  4(3)  is to be read as a reference to the
photograph contained in the issued document record entry for the anonymous
elector’s document referred to in regulation  27(1)(a)  or  30(1)(a)  (as the
case may be);

20.4.b

an anonymous elector’s document is issued in accordance with regulation 29—

20.4.b.i

the reference in paragraph  (3)(c)  to the address provided in accordance with
regulation  4(1)(b)  is to be read as a reference to the address referred to
in regulation  29(4)(a)(ii)(cc) ;

20.4.b.ii

the reference in paragraph  (3)(d)  to any address provided in accordance with
regulation  4(1)(c)  is to be read as a reference to an address referred to in
regulation  29(4)(a)(ii)(aa)  or (bb);

20.4.b.iii

the reference in paragraph  (3)(e)  to regulation  4(1)(f)  is to be read as a
reference to regulation  28(d) .

20.5

The registration officer must—

20.5.a

delete any information included in an entry in accordance with paragraph
(3)(c)  to (f) and (h) at the end of the first retention period for that
entry;

20.5.b

delete any information included in an entry in accordance with paragraph
(3)(j)  at the end of the second retention period for that entry;

20.5.c

delete an entry from the record at the end of the third retention period for
that entry.

20.6

In paragraph (5), in relation to an entry in the record—

20.6.a

“the first retention period” is the period beginning with the day on which the
entry is made and ending—

20.6.a.i

where the entry relates to an electoral identity document, ending with the day
which is 28 working days after the date of issue for that document;

20.6.a.ii

where the entry relates to an anonymous elector’s document, ending with the
day which is 15 months after the date of issue for that document;

20.6.b

“the second retention period” is the period beginning with the day on which
the entry is made and ending on the second 1st July following the date of
issue for the electoral identity document to which the entry relates;

20.6.c

“the third retention period” is the period beginning with the day on which the
entry is made and ending on the tenth 1st July following the date of issue for
the anonymous elector’s document or electoral identity document to which the
entry relates.

20.7

In paragraph (6)(a)(i), “ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday,
Sunday, Good Friday, Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or a bank holiday; and for
these purposes “ bank holiday ” has the meaning given in regulation  14(7) .

##### Duties of registration officer and staff in relation to the record

21

21.1

This regulation applies to—

21.1.a

a registration officer,

21.1.b

a deputy registration officer, and

21.1.c

any person appointed to assist any such officer or who in the course of the
person’s employment is assigned to assist such officer in that officer’s
functions under section 13BD or 13BE of the 1983 Act.

21.2

Where a registration officer is also the relevant officer at any relevant
election, petition or referendum, this regulation applies to—

21.2.a

the registration officer acting in that capacity,

21.2.b

any person appointed as a deputy to the registration officer acting in that
capacity, and

21.2.c

any person appointed to assist a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b)
or who in the course of the person’s employment is assigned to assist a person
mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) in respect of the relevant election,
petition or referendum in question.

21.3

This regulation also applies to a person—

21.3.a

to whom a copy of the record is supplied or information from the record is
disclosed in accordance with paragraph (4), and

21.3.b

who is not a person to whom this regulation applies by virtue of paragraph (1)
or (2).

21.4

A person to whom this regulation applies must not—

21.4.a

supply to any person a copy of the record,

21.4.b

disclose information contained in it, or

21.4.c

make use of such information,

otherwise than in accordance with an enactment (including these Regulations)
or the order of any court or tribunal made at any hearing or during the course
of any proceedings.

21.5

Nothing in paragraph (4) applies to the supply or disclosure by a person to
whom this regulation applies to another such person in connection with either
person’s functions under section 13BD or 13BE of the 1983 Act or for the
purposes of a relevant election, petition or referendum.

21.6

A person to whom this regulation applies must take proper precautions for the
safe custody of the record.

21.7

In paragraph (4), “ enactment ” has the same meaning as in section 17(2) of
the Representation of the People Act 2000 .

21.8

In this regulation and in regulations  22  and  23 , “ record ” includes a
part of the record.

##### Supply, disclosure and use of record for the purposes of relevant elections, petitions and referendums

22

22.1

A registration officer may upon request supply a copy of the record to a
relevant officer for the purposes of a relevant election, petition or
referendum.

22.2

A person to whom a copy of the record has been supplied under this regulation
must not—

22.2.a

supply to any person a copy of the record,

22.2.b

disclose any information contained in it, or

22.2.c

make use of any such information,

other than for the purposes of a relevant election, petition or referendum (as
the case may be).

22.3

Each person supplied with a copy of the record under this regulation must take
proper precautions for its safe custody.

##### Supply of the record to police forces and other organisations

23

23.1

Subject to paragraph (2), a registration officer must upon request supply a
copy of the record to—

23.1.a

any police force in Great Britain,

23.1.b

the Police Service of Northern Ireland or the Police Service of Northern
Ireland (Reserve),

23.1.c

any body of constables established under an Act, or

23.1.d

the National Crime Agency.

23.2

The registration officer must not supply a copy of the record in accordance
with paragraph (1) where that record contains the whole or part of an issued
document record entry relating to an anonymous elector’s document unless the
request is made in writing by—

23.2.a

in the case of forces and organisations mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) to (c),
an officer of a rank senior to that of superintendent;

23.2.b

in the case of the National Crime Agency, the Director General of that Agency.

23.3

A constable, officer or employee of any of the forces or organisations
mentioned in paragraph (1) must not—

23.3.a

supply to any person a copy of the record,

23.3.b

disclose any information contained in it, or

23.3.c

make use of any such information,

otherwise than for the purposes of the prevention and detection of crime and
the enforcement of the criminal law (whether in England and Wales or Scotland
or elsewhere).

23.4

Each person supplied with a copy of the record under this regulation must take
proper precautions for its safe custody.

23.5

Paragraphs (3) and (4) also apply to a person—

23.5.a

to whom a copy of the record is supplied or information from the record is
disclosed in accordance with paragraph (3), and

23.5.b

who is not a constable, officer or employee of any of the forces or
organisations mentioned in paragraph (1);

as those paragraphs apply to such a constable, officer or employee.

##### Offence in respect of contravention of regulation 21(4) or (6), 

24

24.1

A person (“ B ”) who fails to comply with regulation  21(4)  or (6) or  22(2)
or (3) is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction—

24.1.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

24.1.b

in Scotland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum.

24.2

A person (“ B ”) who fails to comply with regulation  23(3)  or (4) is guilty
of an offence and is liable on summary conviction—

24.2.a

in England and Wales, to a fine;

24.2.b

in Scotland or Northern Ireland, to a fine not exceeding the statutory
maximum.

24.3

It is a defence for B to show that B took all reasonable steps to comply with
regulation  21(4)  or (6),  22(2)  or (3) or  23(3)  or (4) (as the case may
be).

### Anonymous elector’s documents: reminders and replacement

#### Reminders

##### Reminder of the need for an anonymous elector’s document: general

25

25.1

In this regulation and in regulation  26 , a “reminder” is a notice to a
person stating that they must have an anonymous elector’s document in order
to—

25.1.a

vote in person as an anonymous elector at a relevant election, petition or
referendum other than a recall petition, or

25.1.b

sign a signing sheet as a person with an anonymous entry in the register at a
recall petition.

25.2

A registration officer must send a reminder to—

25.2.a

a person as soon as reasonably practicable after the registration officer
makes an anonymous entry in a register of parliamentary electors or a register
of local government electors in England or Wales for that person in accordance
with section 9B(3)(b) of the 1983 Act ;

25.2.b

a qualifying anonymous elector during the relevant period.

25.3

Paragraph (2)(a) does not apply to a person who—

25.3.a

has an anonymous entry in a register of local government electors in Wales,
and

25.3.b

is not entitled to vote at a PCC election for a police area in Wales in
accordance with section 52(1A) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility
Act 2011.

25.4

In paragraph (2)(b), a “qualifying anonymous elector” is a person who—

25.4.a

has an anonymous entry in—

25.4.a.i

a register of parliamentary electors,

25.4.a.ii

a register of local government electors in England, or

25.4.a.iii

a register of local government electors in Wales and that person is entitled
to vote at a PCC election for a police area in Wales in accordance with
section 52(1A) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011;

25.4.b

has not been issued with an anonymous elector’s document at any time between
the date on which that anonymous entry first takes effect and the beginning of
the relevant period, and

25.4.c

in the event of a relevant election, petition or referendum other than a
recall petition, would not have an entry in the postal voters list or the list
of proxies.

25.5

The registration officer may combine a reminder under paragraph (1)(b) with a
reminder under regulation 25A(2) of the Representation of the People (England
and Wales) Regulations 2001 or regulation 25A(2) of the Representation of the
People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 (reminder of termination of registration of
person with anonymous entry).

25.6

In this regulation—

25.6.a

“ the list of proxies ” means the list of persons kept in pursuance of—

25.6.a.i

in relation to a relevant election, petition or referendum which is a PCC
election, paragraph 4(3) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner
Elections Order 2012;

25.6.a.ii

otherwise, paragraph 5(3) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the People
Act 2000;

25.6.b

“ the postal voters list ” means the list of persons kept in pursuance of—

25.6.b.i

in relation to a relevant election, petition or referendum which is a PCC
election, paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 2 to the Police and Crime Commissioner
Elections Order 2012;

25.6.b.ii

otherwise, paragraph 5(2) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the People
Act 2000 ;

25.6.c

“ the relevant period ” means the period—

25.6.c.i

beginning with the day which is nine months after the day on which the
person’s anonymous entry first takes effect, and

25.6.c.ii

ending with the day which is ten months after the day on which that entry
first takes effect.

##### Reminder of the need for an anonymous elector’s document: transitional provision

26

26.1

Subject to paragraph (2), a registration officer must send a reminder to all
qualifying anonymous electors registered in a register for which the
registration officer is appointed no later than the end of the period of two
months beginning with the day on which this regulation comes into force.

26.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in respect of a qualifying anonymous elector
where, during the period described in paragraph (1)—

26.2.a

the qualifying anonymous elector’s entry is removed from the register of
electors in accordance with section 9C of the 1983 Act ;

26.2.b

the registration officer sends a reminder to the qualifying anonymous elector
in accordance with regulation  25 .

26.3

In this regulation, a “ qualifying anonymous elector ” means a person who, on
the day on which this regulation comes into force, has an anonymous entry in—

26.3.a

a register of parliamentary electors,

26.3.b

a register of local government electors in England, or

26.3.c

a register of local government electors in Wales and that person is entitled
to vote at a PCC election for a police area in Wales in accordance with
section 52(1A) of the Police Reform and Social Responsibility Act 2011.

#### Replacement of anonymous elector’s documents: change of electoral number

##### Application and interpretation of Chapter 2

27

27.1

This Chapter applies where—

27.1.a

a person has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document in accordance
with these Regulations, and

27.1.b

the person is allocated an electoral number which is different from the one
shown on that document, other than as the result of an application under
section 9B of the 1983 Act (anonymous registration).

27.2

In this Chapter, “ electoral number ” has the same meaning as in regulation
16(2) .

##### Notification as to replacement

28

The registration officer must notify a person to whom this Chapter applies
that—

28.a

the person’s electoral number has changed,

28.b

the anonymous elector’s document previously issued to the person is no longer
valid as a result,

28.c

the registration officer intends to issue the person with a new anonymous
elector’s document, and

28.d

the person may notify the registration officer if the person considers that it
is necessary to collect the document in person from the registration officer
instead of the document being delivered by post, and the reason why the person
considers that collection is necessary.

##### Replacement of anonymous elector’s document following change of electoral number

29

29.1

A registration officer must issue a person to whom this Chapter applies by
virtue of regulation  27(1)  with a new anonymous elector’s document and
regulations  16(1)  and  17  apply in relation to the issue of the new
document as those regulations apply following the granting of an identity
document application in accordance with regulation  11(2)(a) , subject to the
modifications set out in paragraphs (2) to (4).

29.2

References to the applicant are to be read as references to the person issued
with a document under this regulation.

29.3

In regulation  16(1)(c) , the reference to the photograph of the applicant is
to be read as a reference to the photograph of the person contained in the
issued document record entry relating to the anonymous elector’s document
described in regulation  27(1)(a) .

29.4

In regulation  17 —

29.4.a

in paragraph (1)—

29.4.a.i

the reference to regulation  16  is to be read as a reference to this
regulation;

29.4.a.ii

the reference to the applicant’s relevant delivery address is to be read as a
reference to—

29.4.a.ii.aa

where the person is registered in pursuance of a service declaration, the
person’s present address, correspondence address or British Forces Post Office
Number;

29.4.a.ii.bb

where the person is registered in pursuance of an overseas elector’s
declaration, the person’s present address;

29.4.a.ii.cc

otherwise, the address in respect of which the person is registered as an
elector;

29.4.b

in paragraph (3)(a), the reference to regulation  4(1)(f)  is to be read as a
reference to regulation 28(d);

29.4.c

in paragraph (7), the reference to a notification under regulation  12  is to
be read as a reference to a notification under regulation  28 .

#### Replacement of anonymous elector’s documents following loss etc. of document

##### Replacement of anonymous elector’s document following loss etc. of document

30

30.1

This regulation applies where—

30.1.a

a person (“ P ”) has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document in
accordance with these Regulations,

30.1.b

P intends to use that document as a specified document at a relevant election,
petition or referendum, and

30.1.c

during the replacement period for that relevant election, petition or
referendum the document is lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged so as to be no
longer usable as a specified document.

30.2

Where this regulation applies, P may make a request during the replacement
period to the registration officer for a replacement anonymous elector’s
document.

30.3

Where P makes a request in accordance with paragraph (2), the registration
officer must issue a replacement anonymous elector’s document (“the
replacement document”), and regulation  16(1)  applies in relation to the
issue of the replacement document as that regulation applies following the
granting of an identity document application in accordance with regulation
11(2)(a) , subject to the following modifications—

30.3.a

references to the applicant are to be read as references to P;

30.3.b

in regulation  16(1)(c) , the reference to the photograph of the applicant is
to be read as a reference to the photograph of P contained in the issued
document record entry relating to the anonymous elector’s document described
in paragraph  (1)(a) .

30.4

The registration officer must—

30.4.a

arrange for the replacement document to be made available for collection by P
in person, and

30.4.b

notify P—

30.4.b.i

that the replacement document is available to be collected,

30.4.b.ii

of the location where and the times during which the replacement document may
be collected,

30.4.b.iii

that the replacement document may only be collected by P in person, and

30.4.b.iv

that when collecting the issued document P must bring their certificate of
anonymous registration and must show the certificate upon request.

30.5

Where the issued document record entry relating to the anonymous elector’s
document described in paragraph  (1)(a)  contains information described in
regulation  20(3)(f) , the registration officer must also arrange for a
Braille, easy read or large print explanation of the replacement document to
be made available for collection with the replacement document.

30.6

In this regulation—

30.6.a

“ certificate of anonymous registration ” has the same meaning as in
regulation  17(6) ;

30.6.b

the “replacement period”, in respect of a relevant election, petition or
referendum means the period—

30.6.b.i

beginning at 5pm on the sixth working day before the relevant date, and

30.6.b.ii

ending at the relevant time on the relevant date.

30.7

For the purposes of paragraph (6)(b)—

30.7.a

the “ relevant date ” means—

30.7.a.i

where the relevant election, petition or referendum is a recall petition, the
last day of the signing period for that petition;

30.7.a.ii

otherwise, the day of the poll at that election or referendum;

30.7.b

the “relevant time” on the relevant date means—

30.7.b.i

5pm, or

30.7.b.ii

if earlier, where the relevant election, petition or referendum is a recall
petition, the beginning of the final hour during which the petition will be
available for signing at the allotted petition signing place on that day;

30.7.c

“ working day ” means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, Good Friday,
Christmas Eve, Christmas Day or a bank holiday.

30.8

In paragraph (7)(b), “ allotted petition signing place ” means the petition
signing place allotted to P in accordance with regulation 16 of the 2016
Regulations.

### Ballot paper refusal lists and signing sheet refusal lists

#### Ballot paper refusal list at parliamentary elections

31

For the purposes of rule 29(3ZA) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary
election rules: equipment of polling stations) , the prescribed form of the
ballot paper refusal list is the form set out in Schedule 4.

#### Inspection etc. of the completed ballot paper refusal list or signing sheet refusal list

32

32.1

This regulation applies where—

32.1.a

a person (“ A ”) requests a ballot paper or signing sheet (as the case may be)
at a relevant election, petition or referendum—

32.1.a.i

to vote at the election or referendum, or to sign the recall petition as proxy
on behalf of another person (“ B ”), or

32.1.a.ii

otherwise, to vote at the election or referendum or to sign the recall
petition, and

32.1.b

A is refused that ballot paper or signing sheet in accordance with rule 35(3)
or 37(1E) of the elections rules (including rule 37(1E) as applied by rule 38,
39 or 40 of the elections rules).

32.2

Where conditions 1 to 4 in this regulation are met, the list officer may—

32.2.a

open the sealed packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list or
completed signing sheet refusal list (as the case may be) for that relevant
election, petition or referendum,

32.2.b

inspect the list, and

32.2.c

disclose to A, B or the relevant officer (as the case may be) the information
relating to A’s refusal.

32.3

Condition 1 is that a person requests disclosure of the information relating
to A’s refusal from either—

32.3.a

the list officer, or

32.3.b

the relevant officer for the relevant election, petition or referendum, and
the relevant officer requests disclosure of that information from the list
officer.

32.4

Condition 2 is that the request for disclosure is made before the destruction
of the completed ballot paper refusal list or completed signing sheet refusal
list (as the case may be) in accordance with rule 57(1) of the elections
rules.

32.5

Condition 3 is that the person requesting disclosure appears to the list
officer or the relevant officer to be A or B (as the case may be).

32.6

Condition 4 is that A or B (as the case may be) provides to the list officer,
or provides to the relevant officer and the relevant officer provides to the
list officer, the following—

32.6.a

where paragraph  (1)(a)(i)  applies, A’s name and address;

32.6.b

where paragraph  (1)(a)(ii)  applies, A’s electoral number.

32.7

The list officer must—

32.7.a

when opening the sealed packet and inspecting the completed ballot paper
refusal list or signing sheet refusal list, ensure that no person other than
the list officer can see any information contained in the list, and

32.7.b

must re-seal the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list or
signing sheet refusal list after inspecting the list in accordance with
paragraph (2)(b).

32.8

Where the list officer discloses the information relating to A’s refusal to
the relevant officer in accordance with paragraph (2)(c), the relevant
officer—

32.8.a

must disclose that information to A or B (as the case may be), and

32.8.b

must not disclose that information to any other person.

32.9

In this regulation—

32.9.a

“ electoral number ” has the meaning given in rule 40ZB(8) of the elections
rules;

32.9.b

the “ information relating to A’s refusal ” means—

32.9.b.i

the reason for the refusal to deliver—

32.9.b.i.aa

a ballot paper to A, as recorded on the completed ballot paper refusal list in
accordance with rule 40ZB(2)(b) or (3)(b) of the elections rules, or

32.9.b.i.bb

a signing sheet to A, as recorded on the completed signing sheet refusal list
in accordance with regulation 30A(2)(b) or (3)(b) of the 2016 Regulations, and

32.9.b.ii

any note relating to A which is added to such a list in accordance with rule
40ZB(5) or (6) of the elections rules;

32.9.c

“list officer”—

32.9.c.i

in respect of a recall petition in England or Wales, means the registration
officer described in regulation 44(3)(a) of the 2016 Regulations;

32.9.c.ii

in respect of a relevant election, petition or referendum in England or Wales
other than a recall petition, means the relevant registration officer as
defined by rule 55(1A) of the elections rules;

32.9.c.iii

in respect of a relevant election, petition or referendum in Scotland, means
the relevant officer;

32.9.d

“ relevant election, petition or referendum ” does not include a parliamentary
general election to which paragraph 18 of Schedule 1 to the Elections Act 2022
does not apply.

### Rule 40B of the elections rules: collection and collation of information

#### Application of rule 40B of the parliamentary election rules

33

Rule 40B of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (collection and disclosure of
information relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40)  applies in
relation to a parliamentary general election described in section 59A(2) of
the 1983 Act .

#### Collection of information by the presiding officer

34

34.1

This regulation and regulation  35  apply in relation to—

34.1.a

a parliamentary general election to which rule 40B of Schedule 1 to the 1983
Act applies, and

34.1.b

a local government election, a combined authority mayoral election  , a
combined county authority mayoral election   or a local authority mayoral
election to which the Secretary of State’s duty under section 59A(4) of the
1983 Act applies.

34.2

For the purposes of rule 40B(2) of the elections rules, the presiding officer
must collect the following information—

34.2.a

an indication whether the presiding officer or a clerk explained the voter
identification requirements to each voter prior to the voter making an
application under rule 37(1) of the elections rules;

34.2.b

the number of voters to whom the presiding officer delivers a ballot paper in
each of the following circumstances—

34.2.b.i

following the production of an anonymous elector’s document by the voter;

34.2.b.ii

following the production of an electoral identity document or a temporary
electoral identity document by the voter;

34.2.c

the number of voters who request the use of a private area of the polling
station for the production of a document in accordance with rule 37(1B) of the
elections rules;

34.2.d

the number of voters to whom the presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot
paper in accordance with rule 35(3) or 37(1E)(a) or (b) of the elections
rules;

34.2.e

the number of voters to whom the presiding officer, having ascertained the
elector’s name and address following that voter’s application under rule 37 of
the elections rules, is unable to deliver a ballot paper for any of the
following reasons—

34.2.e.i

when asked to produce a specified document, the voter produces a document
other than a specified document;

34.2.e.ii

when asked to produce a specified document, the voter is unable to produce a
specified document;

34.2.f

in respect of each of sub-paragraphs  (d)  and  (e) , the number of such
voters to whom the presiding officer subsequently delivers a ballot paper upon
that person making a further application.

34.3

In paragraph (2)—

34.3.a

a reference to rule 37 of the elections rules includes a reference to that
rule as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40 of the elections rules;

34.3.b

a reference to a presiding officer delivering or refusing to deliver a ballot
paper includes a reference to a presiding officer—

34.3.b.i

causing or refusing to cause a voter’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper in
accordance with paragraph (1) of rule 38 of the elections rules (votes marked
by presiding officer);

34.3.b.ii

granting or refusing an application under paragraph (1) of rule 39 of the
elections rules (voting by persons with disabilities);

34.3.c

a reference to a further application includes a reference to a person seeking
a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper under the paragraph of rule 40
of the elections rules (tendered ballot papers) under which a previous such
attempt was made;

34.3.d

the “ voter identification requirements ” means rule 37(1A) to (1T) of the
elections rules.

#### Collation of information by relevant registration officer or returning officer

35

35.1

Paragraph (2) applies to the information provided to a collating officer—

35.1.a

by each presiding officer in accordance with rule 40B(2)(b) of the elections
rules, or

35.1.b

by the returning officer, in accordance with rule 40B(2)(b) and (3)(a) of the
elections rules.

35.2

For the purposes of rule 40B(5)(b) of the elections rules, the collating
officer must collate the information provided by—

35.2.a

separating that information into two groups depending on whether the
indication by the presiding officer in accordance with regulation  34(2)(a)
is that the explanation described in that regulation was or was not given;

35.2.b

for each group described in sub-paragraph (a), calculating the total number of
voters for each category of information listed in regulation  34(2)(b)  to
(f).

35.3

In this regulation, the “collating officer”—

35.3.a

in relation to an election held in England and Wales is the relevant
registration officer (as defined in rule 40B(12)(b) of the elections rules);

35.3.b

in relation to an election held in Scotland, is the returning officer.

### Amendments relating to the conduct of parliamentary elections

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 1986

36

In regulation 98 of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations
1986 (modification of parliamentary election rules) —

36.a

omit paragraph (4);

36.b

for paragraphs (8) and (9) substitute—

36.b.8

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters), in the questions specified in the
second column of the table—

36.b.8.a

for the words “this election”, wherever they appear, substitute  “this
Parliamentary election” ;

36.b.8.b

in question 3(b) after the words “here or elsewhere” insert  “at this
Parliamentary election” .

36.b.9

In rule 37 (voting procedure and voter identification requirements: Great
Britain), after paragraph (3) insert—

36.b.9.3A

The same copy of the register of electors or where paragraph (3) applies, the
same copy of the notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of this Act may
be used under paragraph (1) for each election and—

36.b.9.3A.a

one mark may be placed in that register or on that notice under paragraph
(1)(c) or in the list of proxies under paragraph (1)(e) to denote that a
ballot paper has been issued in respect of each election; and

36.b.9.3A.b

where a ballot paper has not been issued in respect of one election, a
different mark must be placed in the register on the notice or in the list, so
as to identify the election in respect of which the ballot paper was issued.

.

;

36.c

for paragraph (20) substitute—

36.c.20

In rule 60 (death of independent candidate) after paragraph (5) insert—

36.c.20.6

Neither the countermand of the notice of poll at the parliamentary election
nor the direction that that poll be abandoned affects the poll at the local
government election.

.

36.c.20A

In rule 63 (death of party candidate)—

36.c.20A.a

after paragraph (2) insert—

36.c.20A.a.2A

Neither the countermand of the notice of poll at the parliamentary election
nor the direction that that poll be abandoned affects the poll at the local
government election.

;

36.c.20A.b

in paragraph (3) after “with reference to the” insert  “parliamentary” .

36.c.20B

In rule 64 (death of the Speaker of the House of Commons seeking re-election)—

36.c.20B.a

after paragraph (2) insert—

36.c.20B.a.2A

Neither the countermand of the notice of poll at the parliamentary election
nor the direction that that poll be abandoned affects the poll at the local
government election.

;

36.c.20B.b

in paragraph (3) after “with reference to the” insert  “parliamentary” .

36.c.20C

For rule 65 (abandoned poll) substitute—

36.c.20C.65

36.c.20C.65.1

This rule applies to—

36.c.20C.65.1.a

a poll at a parliamentary election which is abandoned in pursuance of rule
60(4)(b) as if it were a poll at a contested election;

36.c.20C.65.1.b

a poll at a parliamentary election which is abandoned in pursuance of rule
63(2)(b) or 64(2)(b).

36.c.20C.65.2

No further ballot papers at the parliamentary election must be issued in any
polling station.

36.c.20C.65.3

At the close of poll for the local government election the presiding officer
at a polling station must take the like steps (so far as not already taken)
for the delivery to the returning officer of ballot boxes and ballot papers
and other documents as he would be required to do if the poll at the
parliamentary election had not been abandoned.

36.c.20C.65.4

The returning officer must dispose of ballot papers used at the parliamentary
election and other documents in his possession as he is required to do on the
completion of the counting of votes.

36.c.20C.65.5

It is not necessary for a parliamentary ballot paper account to be prepared or
verified.

36.c.20C.65.6

Having separated the ballot papers relating to the local government election,
the returning officer must take no step or further step for the counting of
the ballot papers used at the parliamentary election or of the votes cast at
the parliamentary election.

36.c.20C.65.7

The returning officer must seal up all the ballot papers used at the
parliamentary election (whether the votes on them have been counted or not)
and it is not necessary to seal up counted and rejected ballot papers in
separate packets.

36.c.20C.65.8

The provisions of these rules as to the inspection, production, retention and
destruction of ballot papers and other documents relating to a poll at a
parliamentary election apply subject to paragraphs (9) and (10).

36.c.20C.65.9

Ballot papers on which the votes were neither counted nor rejected must be
treated as counted ballot papers.

36.c.20C.65.10

No order is to be made for—

36.c.20C.65.10.a

the production or inspection of any ballot papers, or

36.c.20C.65.10.b

the opening of a sealed packet of the completed corresponding number list or
of certificates as to employment on the day of the poll,

unless the order is made by a court with reference to a prosecution.

.

;

36.d

for paragraph (21) substitute—

36.d.21

In the Appendix of forms, for the form of directions for the guidance of the
voters in voting substitute—



.

.

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Combination of Polls) (England and Wales) Regulations 2004

37

In Schedule 2 to the Representation of the People (Combination of Polls)
(England and Wales) Regulations 2004 (modifications to parliamentary elections
rules) —

37.a

in paragraph 6, in the inserted text—

37.a.i

in paragraph (5), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (6), if” ;

37.a.ii

after paragraph (5) insert—

37.a.ii.6

Paragraph (5) does not apply in respect of the official poll card for a local
government election in Wales.

;

37.b

in paragraph 19, in the inserted text, in paragraph (1A) after “(c)” insert
“, (db)” ;

37.c

in paragraph 25, in the substituted text, in paragraph (2)—

37.c.i

omit the “or” after sub-paragraph (a);

37.c.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

37.c.ii.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list, or

;

37.d

in the Appendix of Forms, for the form of directions for the guidance of the
voters in voting substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 5.

### Amendment of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001 and the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001

38

38.1

The Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001 are
amended as follows.

38.2

In regulation 31I (anonymous registration: evidence consisting of relevant
court orders or injunctions), in paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (s)
insert—

38.2.t

except in relation to an application for an anonymous entry on a register of
local government electors in Wales, a domestic abuse protection order within
the meaning of section 27 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021.

.

38.3

In regulation 45F (supply of the record of anonymous entries to police forces
and other organisations), in paragraph (1)(c), at the beginning insert  “so
far as the record relates to an anonymous entry in a register of local
government electors in Wales,” .

38.4

In regulation 52 (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy)—

38.4.a

in paragraph (A1)(b), after “paragraph 6(7)” insert  “or (8)” ;

38.4.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

38.4.b.1A

Paragraph (1B) applies where—

38.4.b.1A.a

an application under paragraph 6(7) or (8) of Schedule 4 for the appointment
of a proxy for the purposes of voting by proxy at a parliamentary election or
at a local government election in England is made by a person (“ A ”);

38.4.b.1A.b

A has previously appointed a person (“ B ”) as A’s proxy for those purposes;

38.4.b.1A.c

at the time of making the application, B’s appointment remains in force; and

38.4.b.1A.d

A’s application is made on grounds relating to voter identification which
relate to B.

38.4.b.1B

Where this paragraph applies A’s application must—

38.4.b.1B.a

state that this paragraph applies, and

38.4.b.1B.b

state, to the best of A’s knowledge and belief, which of the conditions set
out in regulation 56A apply in respect of B.

38.4.b.1C

In paragraph (1A)—

38.4.b.1C.a

in sub-paragraph (a), the reference to an application under paragraph 6(8) of
Schedule 4 includes such an application which is included in an application
under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 ;

38.4.b.1C.b

in sub-paragraph (d), “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

38.5

In regulation 55A (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular election), in the heading, at the end
insert  “: grounds relating to occupation, service or employment” .

38.6

After regulation 55A insert—

########## Additional requirements for application for an emergency proxy vote in respect of a particular parliamentary election or local government election in England: grounds relating to voter identification

38.6.55B

38.6.55B.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this regulation applies to an application under
paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 to which regulation 56(3D) applies.

38.6.55B.2

This regulation does not apply where—

38.6.55B.2.a

the application under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 includes an application
under paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 4, and

38.6.55B.2.b

regulation 52(1B) applies to that application under paragraph 6(8).

38.6.55B.3

Where this regulation applies, the application under paragraph 4(2) must (in
addition to providing any other information required by this Part)—

38.6.55B.3.a

state that it is made on grounds relating to voter identification, and

38.6.55B.3.b

state which of the conditions set out in regulation 56A apply to the
applicant.

38.6.55B.4

(4) In this regulation, “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

38.7

In regulation 56 (closing date for applications)—

38.7.a

before paragraph (2) insert—

38.7.a.1B

Paragraph (2) is subject to paragraph (2ZA).

;

38.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

38.7.b.2ZA

An application under paragraph 6(7) of Schedule 4 which is made on grounds
relating to voter identification must be disregarded for the purpose of a
particular parliamentary or local government election in England if it is
received by the registration officer after 5pm on the day of the poll at that
election.

;

38.7.c

before paragraph (3) insert—

38.7.c.2C

Paragraph (3) is subject to paragraph (3D).

;

38.7.d

before paragraph (4) insert—

38.7.d.3D

Where an application is made under paragraph 4(2) or 6(8) of Schedule 4 in
relation to a parliamentary election or a local government election in England
on grounds relating to voter identification, the application must be refused
if it is received after 5pm on the day of the poll at the election for which
it is made.

38.7.d.3E

In paragraphs (2ZA) and (3D), “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

38.8

After regulation 56 insert—

########## Grounds relating to voter identification

38.8.56A

38.8.56A.1

For the purposes of this Part, an application is made on grounds relating to
voter identification if it is made because the following apply to B—

38.8.56A.1.a

condition 1, 2, 3 or 4 in this regulation, and

38.8.56A.1.b

except where B has an anonymous entry on the register, condition 5.

38.8.56A.2

In this regulation, “ B ” means—

38.8.56A.2.a

the applicant, where—

38.8.56A.2.a.i

the application is made under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4, and

38.8.56A.2.a.ii

regulation 52(1B) does not apply to the application made under paragraph 6(8)
of Schedule 4 which is included in that application under paragraph 4(2);

38.8.56A.2.b

otherwise, the person already appointed as the applicant’s proxy at the time
the application is made.

38.8.56A.3

Condition 1 is that—

38.8.56A.3.a

immediately before the deadline, B has a specified document which B intends to
use to vote in person at a parliamentary election or at a local government
election in England, and

38.8.56A.3.b

after that deadline, that document is—

38.8.56A.3.b.i

lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged so as to be no longer usable as a specified
document for the purposes of that election, or

38.8.56A.3.b.ii

sent by B to another person to prove B’s identity, and B considers it is
unlikely to be returned to B on or before the day of poll at that election.

38.8.56A.4

Condition 2 is that—

38.8.56A.4.a

at a time during the period of 3 months ending with the deadline, B has
applied for a specified document,

38.8.56A.4.b

immediately before the deadline, B has not received that document, and

38.8.56A.4.c

the application for the specified document has not been refused or withdrawn.

38.8.56A.5

Condition 3 is that—

38.8.56A.5.a

B has an anonymous entry on the register, and

38.8.56A.5.b

either—

38.8.56A.5.b.i

B has not been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, or

38.8.56A.5.b.ii

B has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, and after the deadline
B is allocated an electoral number which is different from the one shown on
that document other than as a result of an application under section 9B of the
1983 Act (anonymous registration).

38.8.56A.6

(6) Condition 4 is that—

38.8.56A.6.a

B has a temporary electoral identity document which is valid for use on the
day of poll at a parliamentary election or a local government election in
England, and

38.8.56A.6.b

before B is able to vote in person at such an election using that document,
proceedings at B’s polling station are adjourned in accordance with rule 42 of
the elections rules (adjournment of poll in case of riot).

38.8.56A.7

Condition 5 is that B does not have access to another specified document.

38.8.56A.8

In this regulation—

38.8.56A.8.a

“anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity document”
have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification
Regulations 2022;

38.8.56A.8.b

the “ deadline ” means the time stated in regulation 56(2) or (3) after which,
ignoring any other paragraphs in that regulation, an application under
paragraph 4(2) or 6(7) or (8) of Schedule 4 must be disregarded or refused (as
the case may be) by a registration officer;

38.8.56A.8.c

“ specified document ” has the meaning given in rule 37(1H) and (1K) of the
elections rules.

.

38.9

In regulation 94 (restrictions on supply of full register and disclosure of
information from it by the registration officer and his staff), after
paragraph (4) insert—

38.9.5

In this regulation, references to a registration officer’s registration duties
include references to the officer’s functions under sections 13BD and 13BE of
the 1983 Act.

.

38.10

In regulation 109 (supply of full register etc to police forces and other
agencies), in paragraph (1)(e), at the beginning insert  “in relation to a
register of local government electors in Wales,” .

38.11

In Schedule 3 (forms)—

38.11.a

for Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person),
substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 6;

38.11.b

for Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person), substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 6.

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001

39

39.1

The Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001 are amended as
follows.

39.2

In regulation 31I (anonymous registration: evidence consisting of relevant
court orders or injunctions), in paragraph (3), after sub-paragraph (s)
insert—

39.2.t

in relation to an application for an anonymous entry on a register of
parliamentary electors, a domestic abuse protection order within the meaning
of section 27 of the Domestic Abuse Act 2021.

.

39.3

In regulation 45E (supply of the record of anonymous entries to police forces
and other organisations), in paragraph (1)(c), at the beginning insert  “so
far as the record relates to an anonymous entry in a register of local
government electors,” .

39.4

In regulation 52 (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy)—

39.4.a

in paragraph (A1)(b), after “paragraph 6(7)” insert  “or (8)” ;

39.4.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

39.4.b.1A

Paragraph (1B) applies where—

39.4.b.1A.a

an application under paragraph 6(7) or (8) of Schedule 4 for the appointment
of a proxy for the purposes of voting by proxy at a parliamentary election is
made by a person (“ A ”);

39.4.b.1A.b

A has previously appointed a person (“ B ”) as A’s proxy for those purposes;

39.4.b.1A.c

at the time of making the application, B’s appointment remains in force; and

39.4.b.1A.d

A’s application is made on grounds relating to voter identification which
relate to B.

39.4.b.1B

Where this paragraph applies A’s application must—

39.4.b.1B.a

state that this paragraph applies, and

39.4.b.1B.b

state, to the best of A’s knowledge and belief, which of the conditions set
out in regulation 56A apply in respect of B.

39.4.b.1C

In paragraph (1A)—

39.4.b.1C.a

in sub-paragraph (a), the reference to an application under paragraph 6(8) of
Schedule 4 includes such an application which is included in an application
under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4;

39.4.b.1C.b

in sub-paragraph (d), “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

39.5

In regulation 55A (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular election), in the heading, at the end
insert  “: grounds relating to occupation, service or employment” .

39.6

After regulation 55A insert—

########## Additional requirements for application for an emergency proxy vote in respect of a particular parliamentary election: grounds relating to voter identification

39.6.55B

39.6.55B.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this regulation applies to an application under
paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 to which regulation 56(3D) applies.

39.6.55B.2

This regulation does not apply where—

39.6.55B.2.a

the application under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4 includes an application
under paragraph 6(8) of Schedule 4, and

39.6.55B.2.b

regulation 52(1B) applies to that application under paragraph 6(8).

39.6.55B.3

Where this regulation applies, the application under paragraph 4(2) must (in
addition to providing any other information required by this Part)—

39.6.55B.3.a

state that it is made on grounds relating to voter identification, and

39.6.55B.3.b

state which of the conditions set out in regulation 56A apply to the
applicant.

39.6.55B.4

(4) In this regulation, “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

39.7

In regulation 56 (closing date for applications)—

39.7.a

in paragraph (2), after “Subject to paragraph” insert  “(2ZA) or” ;

39.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

39.7.b.2ZA

An application under paragraph 6(7) of Schedule 4 which is made on grounds
relating to voter identification must be disregarded for the purpose of a
particular parliamentary election if it is received by the registration
officer after 5pm on the day of the poll at that election.

;

39.7.c

in paragraph (3), after “paragraph (3A)” insert  “or (3D)” ;

39.7.d

before paragraph (4) insert—

39.7.d.3D

Where an application is made under paragraph 4(2) or 6(8) of Schedule 4 in
relation to a parliamentary election on grounds relating to voter
identification, the application must be refused if it is received after 5pm on
the day of the poll at the election for which it is made.

39.7.d.3E

In paragraphs (2ZA) and (3D), “grounds relating to voter identification” is
interpreted in accordance with regulation 56A(1).

.

39.8

After regulation 56 insert—

########## Grounds relating to voter identification

39.8.56A

39.8.56A.1

For the purposes of this Part, an application is made on grounds relating to
voter identification if it is made because the following apply to B—

39.8.56A.1.a

condition 1, 2, 3 or 4 in this regulation, and

39.8.56A.1.b

except where B has an anonymous entry on the register, condition 5.

39.8.56A.2

In this regulation, “ B ” means—

39.8.56A.2.a

the applicant, where—

39.8.56A.2.a.i

the application is made under paragraph 4(2) of Schedule 4, and

39.8.56A.2.a.ii

regulation 52(1B) does not apply to the application made under paragraph 6(8)
of Schedule 4 which is included in that application under paragraph 4(2);

39.8.56A.2.b

otherwise, the person already appointed as the applicant’s proxy at the time
the application is made.

39.8.56A.3

Condition 1 is that—

39.8.56A.3.a

immediately before the deadline, B has a specified document which B intends to
use to vote in person at a parliamentary election, and

39.8.56A.3.b

after that deadline, that document is—

39.8.56A.3.b.i

lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged so as to be no longer usable as a specified
document for the purposes of that election, or

39.8.56A.3.b.ii

sent by B to another person to prove B’s identity, and B considers it is
unlikely to be returned to B on or before the day of poll at that election.

39.8.56A.4

Condition 2 is that—

39.8.56A.4.a

at a time during the period of 3 months ending with the deadline, B has
applied for a specified document,

39.8.56A.4.b

immediately before the deadline, B has not received that document, and

39.8.56A.4.c

the application for the specified document has not been refused or withdrawn.

39.8.56A.5

Condition 3 is that—

39.8.56A.5.a

B has an anonymous entry on the register, and

39.8.56A.5.b

either—

39.8.56A.5.b.i

B has not been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, or

39.8.56A.5.b.ii

B has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, and after the deadline
B is allocated an electoral number which is different from the one shown on
that document other than as a result of an application under section 9B of the
1983 Act (anonymous registration).

39.8.56A.6

Condition 4 is that—

39.8.56A.6.a

B has a temporary electoral identity document which is valid for use on the
day of poll at a parliamentary election, and

39.8.56A.6.b

before B is able to vote in person at that election using that document,
proceedings at B’s polling station are adjourned in accordance with rule 42 of
the elections rules (adjournment of poll in case of riot).

39.8.56A.7

Condition 5 is that B does not have access to another specified document.

39.8.56A.8

In this regulation—

39.8.56A.8.a

“anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity document”
have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification
Regulations 2022;

39.8.56A.8.b

the “ deadline ” means the time stated in regulation 56(2) or (3) after which,
ignoring any other paragraphs in that regulation, an application under
paragraph 4(2) or 6(7) or (8) of Schedule 4 must be disregarded or refused (as
the case may be) by a registration officer;

39.8.56A.8.c

“ specified document ” has the meaning given in rule 37(1H) and (1K) of the
elections rules.

.

39.9

In regulation 94 (restrictions on supply of full register and disclosure of
information from it by the registration officer and his staff), after
paragraph (4) insert—

39.9.5

In this regulation, references to a registration officer’s registration duties
include references to the officer’s functions under sections 13BD and 13BE of
the 1983 Act.

.

39.10

In regulation 108 (supply of full register etc to police forces and other
agencies), in paragraph (1)(e), at the beginning insert  “in relation to a
register of local government electors,” .

39.11

In Schedule 3 (forms)—

39.11.a

for Form A (official poll card to be sent to an elector voting in person),
substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 6;

39.11.b

for Form B (official proxy poll card to be sent to an appointed proxy voting
in person), substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 6.

#### Amendments consequential on regulation 

40

40.1

In regulation 2 of the Representation of the People (Proxy Vote Applications)
(Coronavirus) Regulations 2021 (expiry and savings provision) , in paragraph
(1), for “and (2)(a) to (c)” in the second place it occurs, substitute  “,
(2)(a) to (c) and (4)(a)” .

40.2

In regulation 56(2) of the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations
2001 (as amended by regulation  39(7)(a) ), omit “or (2A)”.

40.3

The amendment made by paragraph (2) does not apply in respect of an
application made in respect of a parliamentary election after the date on
which that paragraph comes into force where—

40.3.a

the notice of the election is published before 1st March 2023, and

40.3.b

the poll for that election takes place on or after that date.

#### Amendment of the Representation of the People (Northern Ireland) Regulations 2008

41

In regulation 38C of the Representation of the People (Northern Ireland)
Regulations 2008 (anonymous registration: evidence consisting of relevant
court orders or injunctions) , in paragraph (3)—

41.a

in sub-paragraph (r), omit the final “or”;

41.b

in sub-paragraph (s), at the end insert  “or” ;

41.c

after sub-paragraph (s) insert—

41.c.t

a domestic abuse protection order within the meaning of section 27 of the
Domestic Abuse Act 2021.

.

### Amendment of conduct rules for other elections, referendums and recall petitions

#### Amendment of the Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007

42

The Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007
are amended in accordance with regulations  43  to  45 .

#### Amendment of Schedule 1 (mayoral elections rules)

43

43.1

Schedule 1 (mayoral election rules) is amended as follows.

43.2

In the contents list, at the appropriate place—

43.2.a

insert  “41A Refusal to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England” ;

43.2.b

insert  “41B Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications
made under rules 37 to 40 at mayoral elections in England” .

43.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), after paragraph (1) insert—

43.3.1A

(1A) In these Rules, “anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral
identity document” have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022.

.

43.4

In rule 25 (provision of polling stations) after paragraph (4) insert—

43.4.5

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, the returning officer must
ensure that each polling station contains an area in which voters can produce
proof of identity in private.

.

43.5

In rule 26 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3), at the end insert—

and in respect of a presiding officer for a mayoral election in England only—

43.5.a

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 35(3A) or rule 37(1F) (including
that rule as applied by rules 38, 39 or 40), or

43.5.b

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 37(1G) (including that rule
as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40).

.

43.6

In rule 28 (equipment of polling stations), before paragraph (6) insert—

43.6.5B

In the case of a mayoral election held in England—

43.6.5B.a

the returning officer must also provide each polling station with a ballot
paper refusal list, in the appropriate form in the Appendix or a form to the
like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 41A (refusal
to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England);

43.6.5B.b

a large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

43.6.5B.b.i

relevant identification details, and

43.6.5B.b.ii

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be.

43.6.5C

In paragraph (5B)(b)(i), “ relevant identification details ” means details of
the documents the voter needs to produce when applying for a ballot paper,
namely—

43.6.5C.a

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules) ;

43.6.5C.b

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official poll
card and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as
the electoral number shown on the official poll card.

.

43.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

43.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Question”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

43.7.a.za

At a mayoral election held in England, “What is your name?”

43.7.a.zb

At a mayoral election held in England, “What is your address?”

;

43.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

43.7.b.2A

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, where a clerk—

43.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

43.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

43.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

43.7.c

in paragraph (3), for “A” substitute  “In the case of a mayoral election in
Wales, a” ;

43.7.d

after paragraph (3) insert—

43.7.d.3A

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, where the presiding
officer—

43.7.d.3A.a

gives a person the required information,

43.7.d.3A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

43.7.d.3A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
41A (procedure where ballot paper is refused under this paragraph)).

43.7.d.3B

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

43.7.d.3B.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of local government electors;

43.7.d.3B.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

43.7.d.3C

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3B) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

43.7.e

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

43.7.f

after paragraph (4) insert—

43.7.f.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

43.7.f.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

43.7.f.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

43.8

In rule 37 (voting procedure)—

43.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

43.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 35(3A) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1N), a”
;

43.8.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “in the case of a mayoral
election in Wales only,” ;

43.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

43.8.b.1A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) apply in the case of a mayoral election held in
England.

43.8.b.1B

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter unless the voter produces a
specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

43.8.b.1C

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter to produce any
document in a private area of the polling station if the voter so requests,
and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the production
except as permitted by the voter.

43.8.b.1D

Paragraph (1E) applies in relation to a voter where—

43.8.b.1D.a

the voter produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk decides that
the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the elector
or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

43.8.b.1D.b

the voter produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects to
be a forged document.

43.8.b.1E

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter had
produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

43.8.b.1F

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter where—

43.8.b.1F.a

the voter produces a specified document to the officer and the officer decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the
elector or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

43.8.b.1F.b

the voter produces a document to the officer that the officer reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

43.8.b.1G

Paragraph (1F)(a) does not apply where—

43.8.b.1G.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be is resolved to the
presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the voter
producing further proof of identity, and

43.8.b.1G.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter) to doubt that the voter is the elector or proxy that the voter
claims to be.

43.8.b.1H

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under paragraph (1F) does not
prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (1B) to (1G) apply on any further application.

43.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

43.8.b.1J

In this rule, a “specified document”—

43.8.b.1J.a

except in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means a document which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary
elections rules);

43.8.b.1J.b

in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of electors,
means an anonymous elector’s document which—

43.8.b.1J.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the election is held, and

43.8.b.1J.b.ii

contains the number—

43.8.b.1J.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

43.8.b.1J.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

43.8.b.1K

Subject to paragraph (1L), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

43.8.b.1L

Paragraph (1K) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the election is after the date for which the document
is issued.

43.8.b.1M

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

43.8.b.1N

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

43.8.c

in paragraph (2), after “elector” insert  “in respect of a mayoral election in
Wales” .

43.9

In rule 38 (votes marked by presiding officer)—

43.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

43.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

43.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter at a mayoral
election held in England who applies under paragraph (1) of this rule as those
paragraphs apply in the case of a voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as
if—

43.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to causing a voter’s
vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

43.9.b.1A.b

in rule 37(1H), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

43.10

In rule 39 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

43.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

43.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

43.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter at a mayoral
election held in England who applies under paragraph (1) of this rule as those
paragraphs apply in the case of a voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as
if—

43.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to granting a voter’s
application, and

43.10.b.2A.b

in rule 37(1H), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

43.11

In rule 40 (tendered ballot papers – circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

43.11.7

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule at a mayoral election held in
England as they apply in the case of a voter who applies for a ballot paper
under rule 37(1), but as if, in rule 37(1H) the reference to making a further
application under paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to seeking a further time to
mark a tendered ballot paper under the paragraph of this rule under which the
first such attempt was made.

.

43.12

After rule 41 (tendered ballot papers – general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England

43.12.41A

43.12.41A.1

This rule applies in relation to a mayoral election held in England.

43.12.41A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as an elector, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

43.12.41A.2.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

43.12.41A.2.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

43.12.41A.3

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

43.12.41A.3.a

the name and address of the voter, and

43.12.41A.3.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

43.12.41A.4

Paragraphs (5) and (6) apply where—

43.12.41A.4.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under rule
37(1F), and

43.12.41A.4.b

the voter makes a further application as permitted by rule 37(1H).

43.12.41A.5

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter following that application, the
presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper refusal
list.

43.12.41A.6

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter,
the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper
refusal list.

43.12.41A.7

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter is
refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (5), as soon as practicable
after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter).

43.12.41A.8

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

43.12.41A.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

43.12.41A.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

43.12.41A.9

Subject to rule 37(1H) and paragraph (10), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding whatsoever.

43.12.41A.10

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter is subject to review on an
election petition.

43.12.41A.11

In this rule—

43.12.41A.11.a

except in paragraph (4)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 35(3A) or
37(1F), and

43.12.41A.11.b

any reference to paragraph (1F) or (1H) of rule 37 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40.

########## Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40 at mayoral elections in England

43.12.41B

43.12.41B.1

This rule applies in relation to a mayoral election to which the Secretary of
State’s duty under section 59A(4) of the 1983 Act (reports on voter
identification requirements in respect of local government elections) applies
by virtue of subsection (5A) of that section.

43.12.41B.2

The presiding officer must—

43.12.41B.2.a

collect the information described in regulation  34  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collection of information by presiding
officer) relating to applications made under rules 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or
40(1), and

43.12.41B.2.b

provide that information to the returning officer as soon as practicable after
the close of the poll.

43.12.41B.3

The returning officer must forward the information to the relevant
registration officer.

43.12.41B.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving the information the relevant
registration officer must—

43.12.41B.4.a

anonymise the information by removing from it all names and electoral numbers
of the people to whom the information relates, and

43.12.41B.4.b

collate the information in accordance with regulation  35  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collation of information by relevant
registration officer).

The information as anonymised and collated in accordance with this paragraph
is referred to in the rest of this rule as “the paragraph (4) information”.

43.12.41B.5

The relevant registration officer must provide the paragraph (4) information—

43.12.41B.5.a

to the Secretary of State, as soon as reasonably practicable after taking the
steps required by paragraph (4), and

43.12.41B.5.b

where they request the information, to the Electoral Commission.

43.12.41B.6

The relevant registration officer must not disclose the paragraph (4)
information otherwise than in accordance with paragraph (5).

43.12.41B.7

The relevant registration officer must retain the information anonymised in
accordance with paragraph (4)(a) for at least 10 years.

43.12.41B.8

For the purpose of paragraph (4)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

43.12.41B.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

43.12.41B.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

43.12.41B.9

Except as provided by paragraph (10), a disclosure of information under this
rule does not breach—

43.12.41B.9.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the presiding officer, the returning
officer or a registration officer, or

43.12.41B.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

43.12.41B.10

Nothing in this rule authorises the making of a disclosure that contravenes
the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would
do so, the duties imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be taken into
account).

43.12.41B.11

In this rule—

43.12.41B.11.a

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 ;

43.12.41B.11.b

references to the relevant registration officer are to the registration
officer of the local authority in whose area the election is held.

.

43.13

In rule 45 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

43.13.da

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the ballot paper refusal
list completed in accordance with rule 41A,

.

43.14

In rule 56 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

43.14.aa

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the completed ballot paper
refusal list,

.

43.15

In rule 58 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

43.15.1A

An order—

43.15.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

43.15.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of an election petition relating to a
mayoral election held in England.

.

43.16

In the Appendix of Forms—

43.16.a

in the list of forms—

43.16.a.i

in the entry for Form 8 (elector’s official poll card), at the end insert
“(for use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

43.16.a.ii

after the entry for Form 8, insert  “Form 8A: Elector’s official poll card
(for use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

43.16.a.iii

in the entry for Form 10 (official proxy poll card), at the end insert  “(for
use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

43.16.a.iv

after the entry for Form 10, insert  “Form 10A: Official proxy poll card (for
use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

43.16.a.v

after the entry for Form 11 (official proxy postal poll card) insert  “Form
11A: Ballot paper refusal list” ;

43.16.a.vi

in the entry for Form 12 (directions for guidance of voters), at the end
insert  “(for use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

43.16.a.vii

after the entry for Form 12, insert  “Form 12A: Directions for guidance of
voters (for use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

43.16.b

after Form 8, insert new Form 8A as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 7;

43.16.c

after Form 10, insert new Form 10A as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 7;

43.16.d

after Form 11, insert new Form 11A as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 7;

43.16.e

after Form 12, insert new Form 12A as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 7.

#### Amendment of Schedule 2 (modifications of Acts and statutory instruments)

44

44.1

Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983) of Schedule 2 (modifications
of Acts and statutory instruments) is amended as follows.

44.2

For the entries for sections 36 and 39 substitute—

      Section 36 (local elections in England)     In subsection (3) in
paragraph (a), after “such a councillor,” insert  “or the election of an
elected mayor of a district council” .       In subsection (3AC), in paragraph
(a), after “such a councillor”, insert  “or the election of an elected mayor
of the council of a county in England in which there are no district councils”
.       In subsection (4), after “a London borough)” insert  “or the election
of an elected mayor of the council of such an area,” .       In subsection
(6), after “England”, insert  “or at an election of an elected mayor of the
council of any such area,” .     Section 39 (local elections void etc in
England and Wales)        In subsection (2), after “other reason”, insert  “a
mayoral election or” .       In subsection (5), in paragraph (a), after
“section 36 or section 36A above”, insert  “or, in the case of a mayoral
election, regulations under section 9HE of the 2000 Act,” .       In
subsection (6), in paragraph (a)—           in sub-paragraph (i), after
“section 36A)” insert  “or under Part 1A of the 2000 Act (and the regulations
under section 9HE of that Act)” , and           omit “, or, as the case may
be, the district council, or Welsh county or county borough council,”.

.

44.3

After the entry for section 54 (payment of expenses on registration) insert—

      Section 59A (reports on voter identification requirements in Great
Britain)     After subsection (5) insert—           5A     Where this
subsection applies, a report prepared in accordance with subsection (4) must
also include the effect of the mayoral election corresponding requirements on
applications made under the provisions of rules made under section 9HE of the
Local Government Act 2000 corresponding to rules 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) and 40(1)
of the parliamentary elections rules.         5B     Subsection (5A) applies
in respect of an election of a local authority mayor where—     a     the day
of poll for that election is the same day as the poll for the ordinary
elections of councillors described in subsection (4),         b     the
election relates to a local government area to which the duty in subsection
(4) otherwise applies, and         c     the timing of that election is
determined in accordance with regulations 3, 4 or 7 of the Local Authorities
(Elected Mayors) (Elections, Terms of Office and Casual Vacancies) (England)
Regulations 2012 (timing of elections of mayors other than elections resulting
from casual vacancies) .             5C     In subsection (5A), “ mayoral
election corresponding requirements ” means the requirements corresponding to
the voter identification requirements that have effect in relation to mayoral
elections in England by virtue of rules made under section 9HE of the Local
Government Act 2000.         .       In subsection (6), after paragraph (b)
insert—           c     in the case of a report under subsection (4) to which
subsection (5A) applies, information provided to the Secretary of State under
any provision of rules made under section 9HE of the Local Government Act 2000
corresponding to rule 40B of the parliamentary elections rules.

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (mayoral election combination of poll rules)

45

45.1

Schedule 3 (mayoral election combination of poll rules) is amended as follows.

45.2

In the contents list, at the appropriate place—

45.2.a

insert  “41A Refusal to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England” ;

45.2.b

insert  “41B Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications
made under rules 37 to 40 at mayoral elections in England” .

45.3

In rule 2 (interpretation)—

45.3.a

before the definition of “the Appendix” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022”;

;

45.3.b

after the definition of “returning officer” insert—

      “ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in
regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022”;

.

45.4

In rule 25 (provision of polling stations) after paragraph (4) insert—

45.4.5

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, the returning officer must
ensure that each polling station contains an area in which voters can produce
proof of identity in private.

.

45.5

In rule 26 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3), at the end insert—

and in respect of a presiding officer for a mayoral election in England only—

45.5.a

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 35(3A) or rule 37(1F) (including
that rule as applied by rules 38, 39 or 40), or

45.5.b

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 37(1G) (including that rule
as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40).

.

45.6

In rule 28 (equipment of polling stations), before paragraph (7) insert—

45.6.6B

In the case of a mayoral election held in England—

45.6.6B.a

the returning officer must also provide each polling station with a ballot
paper refusal list, in the appropriate form in the Appendix or a form to the
like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 41A (refusal
to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England);

45.6.6B.b

a large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

45.6.6B.b.i

relevant identification details, and

45.6.6B.b.ii

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be.

45.6.6C

In paragraph (6B)(b)(i), “ relevant identification details ” means details of
the documents the voter needs to produce when applying for a ballot paper,
namely—

45.6.6C.a

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

45.6.6C.b

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official poll
card and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as
the electoral number shown on the official poll card.

.

45.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

45.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Question”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

45.7.a.za

At a mayoral election held in England, “What is your name?”

45.7.a.zb

At a mayoral election held in England, “What is your address?”

;

45.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

45.7.b.2A

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, where a clerk—

45.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

45.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

45.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

45.7.c

in paragraph (3), for “A” substitute  “In the case of a mayoral election in
Wales, a” ;

45.7.d

after paragraph (3) insert—

45.7.d.3A

In the case of a mayoral election held in England, where the presiding
officer—

45.7.d.3A.a

gives a person the required information,

45.7.d.3A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

45.7.d.3A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
41A (procedure where ballot paper is refused under this paragraph)).

45.7.d.3B

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

45.7.d.3B.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of local government electors;

45.7.d.3B.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

45.7.d.3C

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3B) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

45.7.e

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

45.7.f

after paragraph (4) insert—

45.7.f.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

45.7.f.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

45.7.f.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

45.8

In rule 37 (voting procedure)—

45.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

45.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 35(3A) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1N), a”
;

45.8.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (a), at the beginning insert  “in the case of a mayoral
election in Wales only,” ;

45.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

45.8.b.1A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) apply in the case of a mayoral election held in
England.

45.8.b.1B

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter unless the voter produces a
specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

45.8.b.1C

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter to produce any
document in a private area of the polling station if the voter so requests,
and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the production
except as permitted by the voter.

45.8.b.1D

Paragraph (1E) applies in relation to a voter where—

45.8.b.1D.a

the voter produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk decides that
the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the elector
or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

45.8.b.1D.b

the voter produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects to
be a forged document.

45.8.b.1E

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter had
produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

45.8.b.1F

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter where—

45.8.b.1F.a

the voter produces a specified document to the officer and the officer decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the
elector or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

45.8.b.1F.b

the voter produces a document to the officer that the officer reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

45.8.b.1G

Paragraph (1F)(a) does not apply where—

45.8.b.1G.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be is resolved to the
presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the voter
producing further proof of identity, and

45.8.b.1G.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter) to doubt that the voter is the elector or proxy that the voter
claims to be.

45.8.b.1H

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under paragraph (1F) does not
prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (1B) to (1G) apply on any further application.

45.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

45.8.b.1J

In this rule, a “specified document”—

45.8.b.1J.a

except in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means a document which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary
elections rules);

45.8.b.1J.b

in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of electors,
means an anonymous elector’s document which—

45.8.b.1J.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the election is held, and

45.8.b.1J.b.ii

contains the number—

45.8.b.1J.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

45.8.b.1J.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

45.8.b.1K

Subject to paragraph (1L), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

45.8.b.1L

Paragraph (1K) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the election is after the date for which the document
is issued.

45.8.b.1M

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

45.8.b.1N

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

45.8.c

in paragraph (2), after “elector” insert  “in respect of a mayoral election in
Wales” .

45.9

In rule 38 (votes marked by presiding officer)—

45.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

45.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

45.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter at a mayoral
election held in England who applies under paragraph (1) of this rule as those
paragraphs apply in the case of a voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as
if—

45.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to causing a voter’s
vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

45.9.b.1A.b

in rule 37(1H), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

45.10

In rule 39 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

45.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

45.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

45.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter at a mayoral
election held in England who applies under paragraph (1) of this rule as those
paragraphs apply in the case of a voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as
if—

45.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to granting a voter’s
application, and

45.10.b.2A.b

in rule 37(1H), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

45.11

In rule 40 (tendered ballot papers – circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

45.11.7

Paragraphs (1B) to (1N) of rule 37 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule at a mayoral election held in
England as they apply in the case of a voter who applies for a ballot paper
under rule 37(1), but as if, in rule 37(1H) the reference to making a further
application under paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to seeking a further time to
mark a tendered ballot paper under the paragraph of this rule under which the
first such attempt was made.

.

45.12

After rule 41 (tendered ballot papers – general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper: mayoral elections in England

45.12.41A

45.12.41A.1

This rule applies in relation to a mayoral election held in England.

45.12.41A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as an elector, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

45.12.41A.2.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

45.12.41A.2.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

45.12.41A.3

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

45.12.41A.3.a

the name and address of the voter, and

45.12.41A.3.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

45.12.41A.4

Paragraphs (5) and (6) apply where—

45.12.41A.4.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under rule
37(1F), and

45.12.41A.4.b

the voter makes a further application as permitted by rule 37(1H).

45.12.41A.5

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter following that application, the
presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper refusal
list.

45.12.41A.6

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter,
the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper
refusal list.

45.12.41A.7

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter is
refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (5), as soon as practicable
after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter).

45.12.41A.8

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

45.12.41A.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

45.12.41A.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

45.12.41A.9

Subject to rule 37(1H) and paragraph (10), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding whatsoever.

45.12.41A.10

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter is subject to review on an
election petition.

45.12.41A.11

In this rule—

45.12.41A.11.a

except in paragraph (4)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 35(3A) or
37(1F), and

45.12.41A.11.b

any reference to paragraph (1F) or (1H) of rule 37 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40.

########## Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40 at mayoral elections in England

45.12.41B

45.12.41B.1

This rule applies in relation to a mayoral election to which the Secretary of
State’s duty under section 59A(4) of the 1983 Act (reports on voter
identification requirements in respect of local government elections) applies
by virtue of subsection (5A) of that section.

45.12.41B.2

The presiding officer must—

45.12.41B.2.a

collect the information described in regulation  34  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collection of information by presiding
officer) relating to applications made under rules 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or
40(1), and

45.12.41B.2.b

provide that information to the returning officer as soon as practicable after
the close of the poll.

45.12.41B.3

The returning officer must forward the information to the relevant
registration officer.

45.12.41B.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving the information the relevant
registration officer must—

45.12.41B.4.a

anonymise the information by removing from it all names and electoral numbers
of the people to whom the information relates, and

45.12.41B.4.b

collate the information in accordance with regulation  35  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collation of information by relevant
registration officer).

The information as anonymised and collated in accordance with this paragraph
is referred to in the rest of this rule as “the paragraph (4) information”.

45.12.41B.5

The relevant registration officer must provide the paragraph (4) information—

45.12.41B.5.a

to the Secretary of State, as soon as reasonably practicable after taking the
steps required by paragraph (4), and

45.12.41B.5.b

where they request the information, to the Electoral Commission.

45.12.41B.6

The relevant registration officer must not disclose the paragraph (4)
information otherwise than in accordance with paragraph (5).

45.12.41B.7

The relevant registration officer must retain the information anonymised in
accordance with paragraph (4)(a) for at least 10 years.

45.12.41B.8

For the purpose of paragraph (4)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

45.12.41B.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

45.12.41B.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

45.12.41B.9

Except as provided by paragraph (10), a disclosure of information under this
rule does not breach—

45.12.41B.9.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the presiding officer, the returning
officer or a registration officer, or

45.12.41B.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

45.12.41B.10

Nothing in this rule authorises the making of a disclosure that contravenes
the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would
do so, the duties imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be taken into
account).

45.12.41B.11

In this rule—

45.12.41B.11.a

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018;

45.12.41B.11.b

references to the relevant registration officer are to the registration
officer of the local authority in whose area the election is held.

.

45.13

In rule 45 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

45.13.da

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the ballot paper refusal
list completed in accordance with rule 41A,

.

45.14

In rule 56 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

45.14.aa

in the case of a mayoral election held in England, the completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

.

45.15

In rule 58 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

45.15.1A

An order—

45.15.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

45.15.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of an election petition relating to a
mayoral election held in England.

.

45.16

In the Appendix of Forms—

45.16.a

in the list of forms—

45.16.a.i

in the entry for Form 8 (elector’s official poll card), at the end insert
“(for use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

45.16.a.ii

after the entry for Form 8, insert  “Form 8A: Elector’s official poll card
(for use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

45.16.a.iii

in the entry for Form 10 (official proxy poll card), at the end insert  “(for
use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

45.16.a.iv

after the entry for Form 10, insert  “Form 10A: Official proxy poll card (for
use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

45.16.a.v

after the entry for Form 11 (official proxy postal poll card) insert  “Form
11A: Ballot Paper Refusal List” ;

45.16.a.vi

in the entry for Form 12 (directions for guidance of voters), at the end
insert  “(for use at mayoral elections in Wales)” ;

45.16.a.vii

after the entry for Form 12, insert  “Form 12A: Directions for guidance of
voters (for use at mayoral elections in England)” ;

45.16.b

after Form 8, insert new Form 8A as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 7;

45.16.c

after Form 10, insert new Form 10A as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 7;

45.16.d

after Form 11, insert new Form 11A as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 7;

45.16.e

after Form 12, insert new Form 12A as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 7.

#### Amendment of the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012

46

The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012 are
amended in accordance with regulations  47  to  50 .

#### Amendment of regulation 13 (combination of referendum polls: supplementary)

47

In regulation 13 (combination of referendum polls: supplementary), in
paragraph (3)(a)(vii) at the end insert  “, except the functions in rule
17(5A)” .

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (local government act referendum rules)

48

48.1

Schedule 3 (local government act referendum rules) is amended as follows.

48.2

In the list of contents, at the appropriate place insert  “30A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

48.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), for paragraph (1) substitute—

48.3.1

In these Rules—

      “anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity
document” have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022;           “ voter ” means a person entitled
to vote on his or her own behalf.

.

48.4

In rule 14 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (4) insert—

48.4.5

The counting officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area in
which voters and proxies can produce proof of identity in private.

.

48.5

In rule 15 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

48.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

48.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 24(3) or rule 26(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29), or

48.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 26(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29).

.

48.6

In rule 17 (equipment of polling stations)—

48.6.a

in paragraph (5)—

48.6.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

48.6.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

48.6.a.ii.aa

a ballot paper refusal list, in the form in the Appendix or a form to like
effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 30A (refusal to
deliver ballot paper); and

;

48.6.b

after paragraph (6) insert—

48.6.b.6A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

48.6.b.6A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

48.6.b.6A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

48.6.b.6A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

48.6.b.6A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

48.7

In rule 24 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

48.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

48.7.a.za

What is your name?

48.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

48.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

48.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

48.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

48.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

48.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

48.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

48.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

48.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

48.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

48.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
30A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

48.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

48.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

48.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

48.7.c.3B

In the case of a person in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

48.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a person
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

48.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

48.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

48.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

48.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

48.8

In rule 26 (voting procedure)—

48.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

48.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 24(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

48.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

48.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

48.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

48.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

48.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

48.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

48.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

48.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

48.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

48.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

48.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

48.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

48.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

48.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

48.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

48.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

48.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

48.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

48.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

48.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held, and

48.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

48.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

48.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

48.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

48.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

48.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s or proxy’s identity, except as permitted by the
voter or proxy.

48.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

48.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

48.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

48.9

In rule 27 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

48.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

48.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

48.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 26(1), but as if—

48.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

48.9.b.1A.b

in rule 26(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 26 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

48.10

In rule 28 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

48.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

48.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

48.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 26(1), but as if—

48.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

48.10.b.2A.b

in rule 26(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 26 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

48.11

In rule 29 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

48.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 26(1), but as if in
rule 26(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 26 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

48.12

After rule 30 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

48.12.30A

48.12.30A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

48.12.30A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

48.12.30A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

48.12.30A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

48.12.30A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

48.12.30A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

48.12.30A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

48.12.30A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 26(1E), and

48.12.30A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 26(1).

48.12.30A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

48.12.30A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

48.12.30A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

48.12.30A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

48.12.30A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

48.12.30A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

48.12.30A.8

Subject to rule 26(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

48.12.30A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
on a referendum petition.

48.12.30A.10

In this rule—

48.12.30A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 24(3) or
26(1E), and

48.12.30A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 26 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29.

.

48.13

In rule 34 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

48.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 30A;

.

48.14

In rule 42 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(b) insert—

48.14.ba

the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

48.15

In rule 43 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), in
paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

48.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

48.16

In rule 44 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

48.16.1A

An order—

48.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

48.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of a referendum petition.

.

48.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

48.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be
sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Ballot Paper Refusal
List” ;

48.17.b

for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in
person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 8;

48.17.c

for the form of the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 8;

48.17.d

after the form of the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) insert the ballot paper refusal list form as
set out in Part 1 of Schedule 8;

48.17.e

for the form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting, substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 8.

#### Amendment of Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate legislation)

49

49.1

Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate
legislation) is amended as follows.

49.2

In Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences), in the second column, after the text relating to
subsections (2) to (4) insert—

In subsection (6ZB), for “, (2A)(a) to (c), (3)(a)(i) and (3A)(a) to (c)”
substitute  “and (3)(a)(i)” .

.

49.3

In Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

49.3.a

in the entry for regulation 55A, in the first column, at the end insert  “:
grounds relating to occupation, service or employment” ;

49.3.b

after that entry insert—

      Regulation 55B (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular election: grounds relating to voter
identification)

;

49.3.c

for the entry for regulation 56 substitute—

      Regulation 56 (closing dates for applications)     In paragraphs (1) to
(3A), after “election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .       In
paragraph (3D), after “election” in the second and third places it occurs
insert  “or referendum” .       In paragraphs (4) to (5A) and (7)(b), after
“election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .     Regulation 56A (grounds
relating to voter identification)     In paragraph (3)—       in sub-paragraph
(a), after “election” in the second place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;
in sub-paragraph (b)(i) and (ii), after “election” insert  “or referendum” .
In paragraph (6)—       in sub-paragraph (a), after “election” in the second
place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;       in sub-paragraph (b), after
“election” in the first place it occurs insert  “or referendum” .

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 5 (local government act referendum combination of polls rules)

50

50.1

Schedule 5 (local government act referendum combination of polls rules) is
amended as follows.

50.2

In the list of contents, in the appropriate place insert  “32A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

50.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

50.3.a

before the definition of “relevant returning or counting officer” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

50.3.b

after the definition of “relevant returning or counting officer” insert—

      “ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in
regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

.

50.4

In rule 14 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (6) insert—

50.4.7

The counting officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area in
which voters and proxies can produce proof of identity in private.

.

50.5

In rule 15 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

50.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

50.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 26(3) or rule 28(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31), or

50.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 28(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31).

.

50.6

In rule 17 (equipment of polling stations)—

50.6.a

after paragraph (5) insert—

50.6.a.5A

The counting officer must provide each polling station with a ballot paper
refusal list, in the form in the Appendix or a form to like effect, on which
entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 32A (refusal to deliver ballot
paper).

;

50.6.b

after paragraph (8) insert—

50.6.b.8A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

50.6.b.8A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

50.6.b.8A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

50.6.b.8A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

50.6.b.8A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

50.7

In rule 26 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

50.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

50.7.a.za

What is your name?

50.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

50.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

50.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

50.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

50.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

50.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

50.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

50.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

50.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

50.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

50.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
32A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

50.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

50.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

50.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

50.7.c.3B

In the case of a person in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

50.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a person
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

50.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

50.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

50.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

50.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

50.8

In rule 28 (voting procedure)—

50.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

50.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 26(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

50.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

50.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

50.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

50.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

50.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

50.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

50.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

50.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

50.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

50.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

50.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

50.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

50.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

50.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

50.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

50.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

50.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

50.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

50.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

50.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held, and

50.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

50.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

50.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

50.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

50.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

50.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s or proxy’s identity, except as permitted by the
voter or proxy.

50.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

50.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

50.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

50.9

In rule 29 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

50.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

50.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

50.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 28(1), but as if—

50.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

50.9.b.1A.b

in rule 28(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 28 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

50.10

In rule 30 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

50.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

50.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

50.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 28(1), but as if—

50.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

50.10.b.2A.b

in rule 28(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 28 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

50.11

In rule 31 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

50.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 28(1), but as if in
rule 28(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 28 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

50.12

After rule 32 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

50.12.32A

50.12.32A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

50.12.32A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

50.12.32A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

50.12.32A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

50.12.32A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

50.12.32A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

50.12.32A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

50.12.32A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 28(1E), and

50.12.32A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 28(1).

50.12.32A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

50.12.32A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

50.12.32A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

50.12.32A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

50.12.32A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

50.12.32A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

50.12.32A.8

Subject to rule 28(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

50.12.32A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
on a referendum petition.

50.12.32A.10

In this rule—

50.12.32A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 26(3) or
28(1E), and

50.12.32A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 28 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31.

.

50.13

In rule 36 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

50.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 32A;

.

50.14

In rule 44 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

50.14.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list; or

.

50.15

In rule 45 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), in
paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

50.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

50.16

In rule 46 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

50.16.1A

An order—

50.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

50.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of a referendum petition.

.

50.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

50.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be
sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Ballot Paper Refusal
List” ;

50.17.b

for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in
person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 8;

50.17.c

for the form of the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 8;

50.17.d

after the form of the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) insert the ballot paper refusal list form as
set out in Part 2 of Schedule 8;

50.17.e

for the form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting, substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 8.

#### Amendment of the Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases) (England) Regulations 2012

51

The Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases)
(England) Regulations 2012 are amended in accordance with regulations  52  to
54 .

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (local government finance act referendum rules)

52

52.1

Schedule 3 (local government finance act referendum rules) is amended as
follows.

52.2

In the list of contents, at the appropriate place insert  “30A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

52.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), for paragraph (1) substitute—

52.3.1

In these Rules—

      “anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity
document” have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022;           “ voter ” means a person entitled
to vote on his or her own behalf.

.

52.4

In rule 14 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (4) insert—

52.4.5

The counting officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area in
which voters and proxies can produce proof of identity in private.

.

52.5

In rule 15 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

52.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

52.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 24(3) or rule 26(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29), or

52.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 26(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29).

.

52.6

In rule 17 (equipment of polling stations)—

52.6.a

in paragraph (5)—

52.6.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

52.6.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

52.6.a.ii.aa

a ballot paper refusal list, in the form in the Appendix or a form to like
effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 30A (refusal to
deliver ballot paper); and

;

52.6.b

after paragraph (6) insert—

52.6.b.6A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

52.6.b.6A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

52.6.b.6A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

52.6.b.6A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

52.6.b.6A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

52.7

In rule 24 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

52.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

52.7.a.za

What is your name?

52.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

52.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

52.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

52.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

52.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

52.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

52.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

52.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

52.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

52.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

52.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
30A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

52.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

52.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

52.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

52.7.c.3B

In the case of a person in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

52.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a person
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

52.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

52.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

52.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

52.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

52.8

In rule 26 (voting procedure)—

52.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

52.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 24(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

52.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

52.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

52.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

52.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

52.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

52.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

52.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

52.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

52.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

52.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

52.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

52.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

52.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

52.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

52.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

52.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

52.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

52.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

52.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

52.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held, and

52.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

52.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

52.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

52.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

52.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

52.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s or proxy’s identity, except as permitted by the
voter or proxy.

52.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

52.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

52.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

52.9

In rule 27 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

52.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

52.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

52.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 26(1), but as if—

52.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

52.9.b.1A.b

in rule 26(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 26 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

52.10

In rule 28 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

52.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

52.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

52.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 26(1), but as if—

52.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

52.10.b.2A.b

in rule 26(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 26 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

52.11

In rule 29 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

52.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 26 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 26(1), but as if in
rule 26(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 26 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

52.12

After rule 30 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

52.12.30A

52.12.30A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

52.12.30A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

52.12.30A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

52.12.30A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

52.12.30A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

52.12.30A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

52.12.30A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

52.12.30A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 26(1E), and

52.12.30A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 26(1).

52.12.30A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

52.12.30A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

52.12.30A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

52.12.30A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

52.12.30A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

52.12.30A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

52.12.30A.8

Subject to rule 26(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

52.12.30A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
on a referendum petition.

52.12.30A.10

In this rule—

52.12.30A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 24(3) or
26(1E), and

52.12.30A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 26 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 27, 28 or 29.

.

52.13

In rule 34 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

52.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 30A;

.

52.14

In rule 42 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(b) insert—

52.14.ba

the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

52.15

In rule 43 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), in
paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

52.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

52.16

In rule 44 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

52.16.1A

An order—

52.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

52.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of a referendum petition.

.

52.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

52.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be
sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Ballot Paper Refusal
List” ;

52.17.b

for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in
person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 9;

52.17.c

for the form of the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 9;

52.17.d

after the form of the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) insert the ballot paper refusal list form as
set out in Part 1 of Schedule 9;

52.17.e

for the form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting, substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 9.

#### Amendment of Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate legislation)

53

53.1

Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of Acts and subordinate
legislation) is amended as follows.

53.2

In Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences), in the second column, after the text relating to
subsections (2) to (4) insert—

In subsection (6ZB), for “, (2A)(a) to (c), (3)(a)(i) and (3A)(a) to (c)”
substitute  “and (3)(a)(i)” .

.

53.3

In Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

53.3.a

in the entry for regulation 55A, in the first column, at the end insert  “:
grounds relating to occupation, service or employment” ;

53.3.b

after that entry insert—

      Regulation 55B (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular election: grounds relating to voter
identification)

;

53.3.c

for the entry for regulation 56 substitute—

      Regulation 56 (closing dates for applications)     In paragraphs (1) to
(3A), after “election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .       In
paragraph (3D), after “election” in the second and third places it occurs
insert  “or referendum” .       In paragraphs (4) to (5A) and (7)(b), after
“election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .     Regulation 56A (grounds
relating to voter identification)     In paragraph (3)—       in sub-paragraph
(a), after “election” in the second place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;
in sub-paragraph (b)(i) and (ii), after “election” insert  “or referendum” .
In paragraph (6)—       in sub-paragraph (a), after “election” in the second
place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;       in sub-paragraph (b), after
“election” in the first place it occurs insert  “or referendum” .

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 5 (local government finance act referendum combination of polls rules)

54

54.1

Schedule 5 (local government finance act referendum combination of polls
rules) is amended as follows.

54.2

In the list of contents, in the appropriate place insert  “32A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

54.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

54.3.a

before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

54.3.a.za

“ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation  3(1)  of
the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

54.3.b

in sub-paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

54.3.c

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

54.3.c.aa

“ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022; and

.

54.4

In rule 14 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (6) insert—

54.4.7

The relevant returning or counting officer must ensure that each polling
station contains an area in which voters and proxies can produce proof of
identity in private.

.

54.5

In rule 15 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

54.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

54.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 26(3) or rule 28(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31), or

54.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 28(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31).

.

54.6

In rule 17 (equipment of polling stations)—

54.6.a

after paragraph (5) insert—

54.6.a.5A

The counting officer must provide each polling station with a ballot paper
refusal list, in the form in the Appendix or a form to like effect, on which
entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 32A (refusal to deliver ballot
paper).

;

54.6.b

after paragraph (8) insert—

54.6.b.8A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

54.6.b.8A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

54.6.b.8A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

54.6.b.8A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

54.6.b.8A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

54.7

In rule 26 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

54.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

54.7.a.za

What is your name?

54.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

54.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

54.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

54.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

54.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

54.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

54.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

54.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

54.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

54.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

54.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
32A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

54.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

54.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

54.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

54.7.c.3B

In the case of a person in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

54.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a person
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

54.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

54.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

54.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

54.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

54.8

In rule 28 (voting procedure)—

54.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

54.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 26(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

54.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

54.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

54.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

54.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

54.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

54.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

54.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

54.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

54.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

54.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

54.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

54.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

54.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

54.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

54.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

54.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

54.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

54.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

54.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

54.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held, and

54.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

54.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

54.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

54.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

54.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

54.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s or proxy’s identity, except as permitted by the
voter or proxy.

54.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

54.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

54.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

54.9

In rule 29 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

54.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

54.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

54.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 28(1), but as if—

54.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

54.9.b.1A.b

in rule 28(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 28 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

54.10

In rule 30 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

54.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

54.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

54.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 28(1), but as if—

54.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

54.10.b.2A.b

in rule 28(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 28 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

54.11

In rule 31 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

54.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 28 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 28(1), but as if in
rule 28(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 28 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

54.12

After rule 32 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

54.12.32A

54.12.32A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

54.12.32A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

54.12.32A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

54.12.32A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

54.12.32A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

54.12.32A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

54.12.32A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

54.12.32A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 28(1E), and

54.12.32A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 28(1).

54.12.32A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

54.12.32A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

54.12.32A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

54.12.32A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

54.12.32A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

54.12.32A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

54.12.32A.8

Subject to rule 28(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

54.12.32A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
on a referendum petition.

54.12.32A.10

In this rule—

54.12.32A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 26(3) or
28(1E), and

54.12.32A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 28 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 29, 30 or 31.

.

54.13

In rule 36 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

54.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 32A;

.

54.14

In rule 44 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

54.14.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list; or

.

54.15

In rule 45 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), in
paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

54.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

54.16

In rule 46 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

54.16.1A

An order—

54.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

54.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of a referendum petition.

.

54.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

54.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be
sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Ballot Paper Refusal
List” ;

54.17.b

for the form of the Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in
person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 9;

54.17.c

for the form of the Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy
voting in person) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 9;

54.17.d

after the form of the Official Proxy Postal Poll Card (to be sent to an
appointed proxy voting by post) insert the ballot paper refusal list form as
set out in Part 2 of Schedule 9;

54.17.e

for the form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting, substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 9.

#### Amendment of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012

55

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012 is amended in
accordance with regulations  56  to  62 .

#### Amendment of article 2 (interpretation)

56

In article 2 (interpretation)

56.a

in paragraph (1)—

56.a.i

after the definition of “absent voter” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

56.a.ii

omit the definitions of “the Assembly” and “Assembly election”;

56.a.iii

after the definition of “relevant registration officer” insert—

      “ Senedd election ” means an election to return a member of the Senedd
Cymru for a Senedd constituency or an election to return members of the Senedd
for a Senedd electoral region (or both);           “ temporary electoral
identity document ” has the meaning given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022;

;

56.b

in paragraphs (2A) and (2B)(a), for “an Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” ;

56.c

in paragraph (2C)—

56.c.i

for “Assembly” in the first and third places it occurs, substitute  “Senedd” ;

56.c.ii

for “an Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” .

#### Amendment of article 13A (combination of polls: National Assembly for Wales)

57

In article 13A—

57.a

in the heading, for “National Assembly for Wales” substitute  “Senedd Cymru” ;

57.b

for “an Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” .

#### Amendment of article 18 (other voting offences)

58

In article 18 (other voting offences), after paragraph (6) insert—

58.6A

For the purpose of determining whether an application for a ballot paper
constitutes an offence under paragraph (2)(a) or (3)(a), a previous
application is to be disregarded if the applicant’s failure to vote on that
occasion resulted only from a failure to produce satisfactory proof of
identity.

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 2 (absent voting in PCC elections)

59

59.1

Schedule 2 (absent voting in PCC elections) is amended as follows.

59.2

In Part 2 (applications for absent vote)—

59.2.a

in paragraph 11 (general requirements for applications for absent vote), in
sub-paragraph (6), at the end insert  “and (where applicable) paragraph 14A” ;

59.2.b

after paragraph 14 (additional requirements: applications for the appointment
of a proxy in respect of a particular PCC election) insert—

############ Additional requirements: applications for the appointment of a proxy on grounds relation to voter identification

59.2.b.14A

59.2.b.14A.1

This paragraph applies where—

59.2.b.14A.1.a

an application under paragraph 5(4) for the appointment of a proxy for the
purposes of voting by proxy at a particular PCC election is made by a person
(“ A ”);

59.2.b.14A.1.b

A has previously appointed a person (“ B ”) as A’s proxy for those purposes;

59.2.b.14A.1.c

at the time of making the application, B’s appointment remains in force; and

59.2.b.14A.1.d

A’s application is made on grounds relating to voter identification which
relate to B.

59.2.b.14A.2

A’s application must—

59.2.b.14A.2.a

state that this paragraph applies, and

59.2.b.14A.2.b

state, to the best of A’s knowledge and belief, which of the conditions set
out in paragraph 16A apply in respect of B.

59.2.b.14A.3

In sub-paragraph (1)—

59.2.b.14A.3.a

in paragraph (a), the reference to an application under paragraph 5(4)
includes such an application which is included in an application under
paragraph 3(2);

59.2.b.14A.3.b

in paragraph (d), “ grounds relating to voter identification ” has the meaning
given in paragraph 16A.

.

59.2.c

after paragraph 15A (additional requirements referred to in paragraph 14(5A))
insert—

############ Additional requirements for an application under paragraph 3(2) for a proxy vote: grounds related to voter identification

59.2.c.15B

59.2.c.15B.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), this paragraph applies to an application under
paragraph 3(2) to which paragraph 16(2C) applies.

59.2.c.15B.2

This paragraph does not apply where—

59.2.c.15B.2.a

the application under paragraph 3(2) includes an application under paragraph
5(4), and

59.2.c.15B.2.b

paragraph 14A(2) applies to that application under paragraph 5(4).

59.2.c.15B.3

Where this paragraph applies, the application under paragraph 3(2) must (in
addition to any other information required by this Part)—

59.2.c.15B.3.a

state that it is made on grounds relating to voter identification, and

59.2.c.15B.3.b

states which of the conditions set out in paragraph 16A apply to the
applicant.

59.2.c.15B.4

In this paragraph, “ grounds relating to voter identification ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 16A.

;

59.2.d

in paragraph 16 (closing date for applications)—

59.2.d.i

in sub-paragraph (1), after “sub-paragraph (2)” insert  “and (2C)” ;

59.2.d.ii

before sub-paragraph (3) insert—

59.2.d.ii.2C

Where an application is made under paragraph 3(2) or 5(4) on grounds relating
to voter identification, the application is to be refused if it is received
after 5pm on the day of the poll at the PCC election for which it is made.

59.2.d.ii.2D

In sub-paragraph (2C), “ grounds relating to voter identification ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 16A.

;

59.2.e

after paragraph 16 insert—

############ Grounds relating to voter identification

59.2.e.16A

59.2.e.16A.1

For the purposes of this Part, an application is made on grounds relating to
voter identification if it is made because the following apply to B—

59.2.e.16A.1.a

condition 1, 2, 3 or 4, and

59.2.e.16A.1.b

except where B has an anonymous entry on the register of electors, condition
5.

59.2.e.16A.2

In this paragraph, “ B ” means—

59.2.e.16A.2.a

the applicant, where—

59.2.e.16A.2.a.i

the application is made under paragraph 3(2), and

59.2.e.16A.2.a.ii

paragraph 14A(2) does not apply to the application made under paragraph 5(4)
which is included in that application under paragraph 3(2);

59.2.e.16A.2.b

otherwise, the person already appointed as the applicant’s proxy at the time
the application is made.

59.2.e.16A.3

Condition 1 is that—

59.2.e.16A.3.a

immediately before the deadline, B has a specified document which B intends to
use to vote in person at a PCC election, and

59.2.e.16A.3.b

after that deadline, that document is—

59.2.e.16A.3.b.i

lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged so as to be no longer usable as a specified
document for the purposes of that election, or

59.2.e.16A.3.b.ii

sent by B to another person to prove B’s identity and B considers that it is
unlikely to be returned to B on or before the day of poll at that election.

59.2.e.16A.4

Condition 2 is that—

59.2.e.16A.4.a

at a time during the period of 3 months ending with the deadline, B has
applied for a specified document,

59.2.e.16A.4.b

immediately before the deadline, B has not received that document, and

59.2.e.16A.4.c

the application for the specified document has not been refused or withdrawn.

59.2.e.16A.5

Condition 3 is that—

59.2.e.16A.5.a

B has an anonymous entry on the register of electors, and

59.2.e.16A.5.b

either—

59.2.e.16A.5.b.i

B has not been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, or

59.2.e.16A.5.b.ii

B has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, and after the deadline
B is allocated an electoral number which is different from the one shown on
that document other than as a result of an application under section 9B of the
1983 Act (anonymous registration).

59.2.e.16A.6

Condition 4 is that—

59.2.e.16A.6.a

B has a temporary electoral identity document which is valid for use on the
day of poll at a PCC election, and

59.2.e.16A.6.b

before B is able to vote in person at such an election using that document,
proceedings at B’s polling station are adjourned in accordance with rule 46 of
Part 3 of Schedule 3 (adjournment of poll in case of riot).

59.2.e.16A.7

Condition 5 is that B does not have access to another specified document.

59.2.e.16A.8

In this paragraph—

59.2.e.16A.8.a

“anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity document”
have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification
Regulations 2022;

59.2.e.16A.8.b

the “ deadline ” means 5 pm on the sixth day before the date of the poll at
the PCC election for which an application is made, and paragraph 16(5) applies
for the purposes of computing the sixth day as it applies for the purposes of
computing a period of days for the purposes of paragraph 16;

59.2.e.16A.8.c

“ specified document ” has the meaning given in rule 39(2I) of Part 3 of
Schedule 3.

.

59.3

In Part 3 (issue and receipt of ballot papers)—

59.3.a

in paragraph 29 (combination of polls), in paragraph (3), for “an Assembly”
substitute  “a Senedd” ;

59.3.b

in paragraph 59 (forwarding of documents), in paragraph (2A), for “an
Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” .

59.4

In Part 4 (forms), for Form 1 (proxy paper) substituted the corresponding form
in Part 1 of Schedule 10.

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (PCC election conduct rules)

60

60.1

Schedule 3 (rules for the conduct of PCC elections where poll not taken
together with poll at another election) is amended as follows.

60.2

In rule 26 (provision of polling stations) after paragraph (4) insert—

60.2.5

The local returning officer must ensure that each polling station contains an
area in which voters can produce proof of identity in private.

.

60.3

In rule 27 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (5), for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

60.3.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

60.3.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 37(3) or rule 39(2E) (including
that rule as applied by rules 40, 41 or 42), or

60.3.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 39(2F) (including that rule
as applied by rule 40, 41 or 42).

.

60.4

In rule 29 (equipment of polling stations)—

60.4.a

in paragraph (5), after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

60.4.a.ba

a ballot paper refusal list, in Form 14A or a form to like effect, on which
entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 43A (refusal to deliver ballot
paper);

;

60.4.b

after paragraph (9) insert—

60.4.b.9A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

60.4.b.9A.a

details of the documents the elector or proxy needs to produce when applying
for a ballot paper, namely—

60.4.b.9A.a.i

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

60.4.b.9A.a.ii

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official poll
card and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as
the electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

60.4.b.9A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be.

.

60.5

In rule 37 (questions to be put to voters)—

60.5.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Question”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

60.5.a.za

What is your name?

60.5.a.zb

What is your address?

;

60.5.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

60.5.b.2A

Where a clerk—

60.5.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

60.5.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

60.5.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

60.5.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

60.5.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

60.5.c.3.a

gives a person the required information,

60.5.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

60.5.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
43A (procedure where ballot paper is refused under this paragraph)).

60.5.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

60.5.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of local government electors;

60.5.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

60.5.c.3B

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3C) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

60.5.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

60.5.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

60.5.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

60.5.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

60.5.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

60.6

In rule 39 (voting procedure)—

60.6.a

in paragraph (1), for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 37(3) and to paragraphs
(2A) to (2M), a” ;

60.6.b

omit paragraph (2)(a);

60.6.c

after paragraph (2) insert—

60.6.c.2A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter unless the voter produces a
specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

60.6.c.2B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter to produce any
document in a private area of the polling station if the voter so requests,
and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the production
except as permitted by the voter.

60.6.c.2C

Paragraph (2D) applies in relation to a voter where—

60.6.c.2C.a

the voter produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk decides that
the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the elector
or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

60.6.c.2C.b

the voter produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects to
be a forged document.

60.6.c.2D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter had
produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

60.6.c.2E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter where—

60.6.c.2E.a

the voter produces a specified document to the officer and the officer decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the
elector or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

60.6.c.2E.b

the voter produces a document to the officer that the officer reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

60.6.c.2F

Paragraph (2E)(a) does not apply where—

60.6.c.2F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be is resolved to the
presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the voter
producing further proof of identity, and

60.6.c.2F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter) to doubt that the voter is the elector or proxy that the voter
claims to be.

60.6.c.2G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under paragraph (2E) does not
prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (2A) to (2F) apply on any further application.

60.6.c.2H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

60.6.c.2I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

60.6.c.2I.a

except in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means a document which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

60.6.c.2I.b

in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of electors,
means an anonymous elector’s document which—

60.6.c.2I.b.i

was issued by the relevant registration officer for the voting area in which
the polling station to which the voter is allotted is situated,

60.6.c.2I.b.ii

contains the number—

60.6.c.2I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

60.6.c.2I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

60.6.c.2J

Subject to paragraph (2K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

60.6.c.2K

Paragraph (2J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the election is after the date for which the document
is issued.

60.6.c.2L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

60.6.c.2M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

60.6.d

in paragraph (3), omit the words from “and only” until the end;

60.6.e

omit paragraph (4)(a).

60.7

In rule 40 (votes marked by presiding officer)—

60.7.a

in paragraph (2), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), the” ;

60.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

60.7.b.2A

Paragraphs (2A) to (2M) of rule 39 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 39(1), but as if—

60.7.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to causing a voter’s
vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

60.7.b.2A.b

in rule 39(2G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 39 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

60.8

In rule 41 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

60.8.a

in paragraph (2), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), the” ;

60.8.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

60.8.b.2A

Paragraphs (2A) to (2M) of rule 39 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 39(1), but as if—

60.8.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to granting a voter’s
application, and

60.8.b.2A.b

in rule 39(2G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 39 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

60.9

In rule 42 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (9) insert—

60.9.10

Paragraphs (2A) to (2M) of rule 39 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter who applies for a ballot paper under rule 39(1), but as if, in rule
39(2G) the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1) of
rule 39 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper under
the paragraph of this rule under which the first such attempt was made.

.

60.10

After rule 43 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

60.10.43A

60.10.43A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as an elector, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

60.10.43A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

60.10.43A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

60.10.43A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

60.10.43A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

60.10.43A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

60.10.43A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

60.10.43A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under rule
39(2E), and

60.10.43A.3.b

the voter makes a further application as permitted by rule 39(2G).

60.10.43A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter following that application, the
presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper refusal
list.

60.10.43A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter,
the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper
refusal list.

60.10.43A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter is
refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as practicable
after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter).

60.10.43A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

60.10.43A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

60.10.43A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

60.10.43A.8

Subject to rule 39(2G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding whatsoever.

60.10.43A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter is subject to review on an
election petition.

60.10.43A.10

In this rule—

60.10.43A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 37(3) or
39(2E), and

60.10.43A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (2E) or (2G) of rule 39 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 40, 41 or 42.

.

60.11

In rule 47 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

60.11.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 43A,

.

60.12

In rule 65 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

60.12.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

60.13

In rule 66 (delivery of documents), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph (c)
insert—

60.13.ca

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

60.14

In rule 67 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

60.14.1A

An order—

60.14.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

60.14.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of a PCC election petition.

.

60.15

In rule 70 (forms)—

60.15.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Form 14 Official postal proxy poll card
(rule 28)” insert  “Form 14A Ballot paper refusal list (rule 29(4A))” ;

60.15.b

for Form 11 (official poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2
of Schedule 10;

60.15.c

for Form 13 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in
Part 2 of Schedule 10;

60.15.d

after Form 14 (official postal proxy poll card) insert new Form 14A (ballot
paper refusal list) as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 10;

60.15.e

for Form 16 (Notice for guidance of voters for exhibition inside and outside
polling station) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 10.

#### Amendment of Part 3 of Schedule 4 (modifications to PCC elections rules for combination of polls)

61

61.1

Part 3 of Schedule 4 (modifications to PCC elections rules) is amended as
follows.

61.2

In paragraph 21 (provision of polling stations), for “and (4)” substitute  “,
(4) and (5)” .

61.3

In paragraph 23 (issue of official poll cards), in the inserted text—

61.3.a

in paragraph (5), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (5A), if” ;

61.3.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

61.3.b.5A

Paragraph (5) does not apply in respect of the official poll card for—

61.3.b.5A.a

a local government election in Wales,

61.3.b.5A.b

an election in Wales for the return of an elected mayor as defined by section
39(1) of the Local Government Act 2000, or

61.3.b.5A.c

a referendum in Wales under Part 2 of the Local Government Act 2000.

.

61.4

In paragraph 24 (equipment of polling stations)—

61.4.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

61.4.a.3A

Omit paragraph (5)(ba).

;

61.4.b

in paragraph (4), in the inserted text, at the end insert—

61.4.b.5ZB

The local returning officer must provide each polling station with a ballot
paper refusal list, in Form 14A or a form to like effect, on which entries are
to be made as mentioned in rule 43A (refusal to deliver ballot paper).

.

61.5

In paragraph 43 (sealing up of ballot papers), in sub-paragraph (2), in the
substituted text, after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

61.5.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list, or

.

61.6

In paragraph 44 (delivery of documents), in the substituted text, in paragraph
(2), after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

61.6.ca

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

#### Amendment of Part 5 of Schedule 4 (modifications to PCC elections rules for combination of poll with the poll for an election to Senedd Cymru)

62

62.1

Part 5 of Schedule 4 (modifications to PCC elections rules for combination of
poll with the poll for an election to Senedd Cymru) is amended as follows.

62.2

In the heading of Part 5, for “Assembly” substitute  “Senedd” .

62.3

In paragraph 46 (introduction), in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (2), for “an
Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” .

62.4

In paragraph 47 (modification of paragraph 13 (interpretation)), in sub-
paragraph (1)(a), in the substituted sub-paragraph (2)(a)—

62.4.a

for “Assembly” in the first two places it occurs substitute  “Senedd” ;

62.4.b

for “an Assembly” substitute  “a Senedd” .

62.5

In paragraph 49 (modification of paragraph 19 (notice of poll)), in the
substituted paragraph (3A), for  “Assembly”  in each place it occurs
substitute  “Senedd” .

62.6

After paragraph 49 insert—

########## Modification of paragraph 23 (issue of official poll cards)

62.6.49A

In paragraph 23 (issue of official poll cards), in the inserted text, in
paragraph (5A) after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

62.6.49A.aa

a Senedd election,

.

.

62.7

In paragraph 50 (modification of paragraph 35 (correction of errors on day of
the poll), in sub-paragraph (a), in the substituted paragraph (2), for  “an
Assembly”  substitute “a Senedd”.

62.8

In paragraph 51 (modification of paragraph 42 (the first count), for
“Assembly” substitute  “Senedd” .

62.9

In paragraph 52 (countermand or abandonment of poll on death of candidate), in
the inserted paragraph 44A, in the inserted paragraph (5A), for “Assembly”
substitute  “Senedd” .

#### Amendment of the Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012

63

The Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012 are amended in
accordance with regulations  64  to  67 .

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (neighbourhood planning referendum rules)

64

64.1

Schedule 3 (neighbourhood planning referendum rules) is amended as follows.

64.2

In the list of contents, at the appropriate place insert  “31A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

64.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), for paragraph (1) substitute—

64.3.1

In these Rules—

      “anonymous elector’s document” and “temporary electoral identity
document” have the meanings given in regulation  3(1)  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022;           “ voter ” means a person entitled
to vote on their own behalf.

.

64.4

In rule 15 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (4) insert—

64.4.5

The counting officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area in
which voters and proxies can produce proof of identity in private.

.

64.5

In rule 16 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

64.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

64.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 25(3) or rule 27(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 28, 28 or 30), or

64.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 27(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 28, 29 or 30).

.

64.6

In rule 18 (equipment of polling stations)—

64.6.a

in paragraph (5)—

64.6.a.i

in sub-paragraph (a), omit the final “and”;

64.6.a.ii

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

64.6.a.ii.aa

a ballot paper refusal list, set out in Form 10A in the Appendix or a form to
like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 31A (refusal
to deliver ballot paper); and

;

64.6.b

after paragraph (6) insert—

64.6.b.6A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

64.6.b.6A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

64.6.b.6A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

64.6.b.6A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

64.6.b.6A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

64.7

In rule 25 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

64.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

64.7.a.za

What is your name?

64.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

64.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

64.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

64.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

64.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

64.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

64.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

64.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

64.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

64.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

64.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
31A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

64.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

64.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

64.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

64.7.c.3B

In the case of a voter or proxy in respect of whom a notice has been issued
under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register
in paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D).

;

64.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
or proxy is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to
vote)” ;

64.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

64.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

64.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

64.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

64.8

In rule 27 (voting procedure)—

64.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

64.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 25(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

64.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

64.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

64.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

64.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

64.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

64.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

64.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

64.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

64.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

64.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

64.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

64.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

64.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

64.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

64.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

64.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

64.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

64.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

64.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

64.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held,

64.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

64.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

64.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

64.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

64.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

64.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

64.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

64.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

64.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

64.9

In rule 28 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

64.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

64.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

64.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 27(1), but as if—

64.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

64.9.b.1A.b

in rule 27(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 27 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

64.10

In rule 29 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

64.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

64.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

64.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 27(1), but as if—

64.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

64.10.b.2A.b

in rule 27(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 27 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

64.11

In rule 30 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

64.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 27(1), but as if in
rule 27(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 27 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

64.12

After rule 31 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

64.12.31A

64.12.31A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

64.12.31A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

64.12.31A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

64.12.31A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

64.12.31A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

64.12.31A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

64.12.31A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

64.12.31A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 27(1E), and

64.12.31A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 27(1).

64.12.31A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

64.12.31A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

64.12.31A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

64.12.31A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

64.12.31A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

64.12.31A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

64.12.31A.8

Subject to rule 27(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

64.12.31A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
in proceedings brought as mentioned in section 61N(3) of the 1990 Act .

64.12.31A.10

In this rule—

64.12.31A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 25(3) or
27(1E), and

64.12.31A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 27 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 28, 29 or 30.

.

64.13

In rule 35 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

64.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 31A;

.

64.14

In rule 44 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(b) insert—

64.14.ba

the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

64.15

In rule 45 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), after
paragraph (d) insert—

64.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

64.16

In rule 46 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

64.16.1A

An order—

64.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

64.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the High Court or the county court if satisfied by evidence on
oath that the order is required for the purpose of proceedings brought as
mentioned in section 61N(3) of the 1990 Act.

.

64.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

64.17.a

in the list of Forms, after the entry “Form 10—Official Proxy Postal Poll Card
(to be sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Form 10A—Ballot
Paper Refusal List” ;

64.17.b

for Form 7 (official poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of
Schedule 11;

64.17.c

for Form 9 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in
Part 1 of Schedule 11;

64.17.d

after Form 10 (official proxy postal poll card) insert new Form 10A (ballot
paper refusal list) as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 11;

64.17.e

for Form 11 (form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 11.

#### Amendment of Part 1 of Schedule 4 (application, with modification, of other Acts and subordinate legislation)

65

65.1

Part 1 of Schedule 4 (application, with modifications, of other Acts and
subordinate legislation) is amended as follows.

65.2

In Table 1 (Representation of the People Act 1983), in the entry for section
61 (other voting offences), in the second column, after the text relating to
subsections (2) to (4) insert—

In subsection (6ZB), for “(2)(a)(i), (2A)(a) to (c), (3)(a)(i) and (3A)(a) to
(c)” substitute  “(2)(a) and (3)(a)” .

.

65.3

In Table 6 (Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations
2001)—

65.3.a

in the entry for regulation 55A, in the first column, at the end insert  “:
grounds relating to occupation, service or employment” ;

65.3.b

after that entry insert—

      Regulation 55B (additional requirements for application for an emergency
proxy vote in respect of a particular election: grounds relating to voter
identification)

;

65.3.c

for the entry for regulation 56 substitute—

      Regulation 56 (closing dates for applications)     In paragraphs (1) to
(3A), after “election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .       In
paragraph (3D), after “election” in the second and third places it occurs
insert  “or referendum” .       In paragraphs (4) to (5A) and (7)(b), after
“election” in each place insert  “or referendum” .     Regulation 56A (grounds
relating to voter identification)     In paragraph (3)—       in sub-paragraph
(a), after “election” in the second place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;
in sub-paragraph (b)(i) and (ii), after “election” insert  “or referendum” .
In paragraph (6)—       in sub-paragraph (a), after “election” in the second
place it occurs insert  “or referendum” ;       in sub-paragraph (b), after
“election” in the first place it occurs insert  “or referendum” .

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 5 (neighbourhood planning referendum combination of polls rules)

66

66.1

Schedule 5 (neighbourhood planning referendum combination of polls rules) is
amended as follows.

66.2

In the list of contents, at the appropriate place insert  “31A Refusal to
deliver ballot paper” .

66.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

66.3.a

before the definition of “polling agent” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

66.3.b

in the definition of “relevant and returning or counting officer”, omit the
final “and”;

66.3.c

after that definition insert—

      “ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in
regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022; and

.

66.4

In rule 15 (provision of polling stations), after paragraph (6) insert—

66.4.7

The counting officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area in
which voters and proxies can produce proof of identity in private.

.

66.5

In rule 16 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3) for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

66.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

66.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 25(3) or rule 27(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rule 28, 28 or 30), or

66.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 27(1F) (including that
paragraph as applied by rule 28, 29 or 30).

.

66.6

In rule 18 (equipment of polling stations)—

66.6.a

after paragraph (5) insert—

66.6.a.5A

The counting officer must also provide each polling station with a ballot
paper refusal list, in the form set out in Form 11A in the Appendix or a form
to like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 31A
(refusal to deliver ballot paper).

;

66.6.b

after paragraph (8) insert—

66.6.b.8A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

66.6.b.8A.a

details of the documents the voter or proxy needs to produce when applying for
a ballot paper, namely—

66.6.b.8A.a.i

in the case of a voter (other than a voter with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

66.6.b.8A.a.ii

in the case of a voter with an anonymous entry, the voter’s official poll card
and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as the
electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

66.6.b.8A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be.

.

66.7

In rule 25 (questions to be put to voters and proxies)—

66.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (voters), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for a voter with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

66.7.a.za

What is your name?

66.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

66.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

66.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

66.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

66.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

66.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

66.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

66.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

66.7.c.3.a

gives the person the required information,

66.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

66.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
31A for the procedure where a ballot paper is refused under this paragraph).

66.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

66.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of electors;

66.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

66.7.c.3B

In the case of a voter or proxy in respect of whom a notice has been issued
under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register
in paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D).

;

66.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
or proxy is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to
vote)” ;

66.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

66.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

66.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

66.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

66.8

In rule 27 (voting procedure)—

66.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

66.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 25(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

66.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

66.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

66.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter or proxy unless the voter or
proxy produces a specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

66.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter or proxy to produce
any document in a private area of the polling station if the voter or proxy so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the voter or proxy.

66.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter or proxy where—

66.8.b.1C.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk
decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter or
proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

66.8.b.1C.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

66.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter or proxy
had produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

66.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy where—

66.8.b.1E.a

the voter or proxy produces a specified document to the officer and the
officer decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the
voter or proxy is the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be, or

66.8.b.1E.b

the voter or proxy produces a document to the officer that the officer
reasonably suspects to be a forged document.

66.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

66.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the voter or proxy that the voter or proxy claims to be is resolved to
the presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the
voter or proxy producing further proof of identity, and

66.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter or proxy) to doubt that the voter or proxy is the voter or proxy
that the voter or proxy claims to be.

66.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy under paragraph (1E)
does not prevent the voter or proxy making a further application under
paragraph (1), and paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

66.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

66.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

66.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the
register of electors, is one which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

66.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter or proxy who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means an anonymous elector’s document which—

66.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the local authority in whose area
the referendum is held,

66.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

66.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter or proxy as stated in the copy of the register of
electors, or

66.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter or proxy is added to the register in
pursuance of a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as
stated in the copy of that notice.

66.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

66.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the referendum is after the date for which the
document is issued.

66.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

66.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

66.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

66.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

66.9

In rule 28 (votes marked by the presiding officer)—

66.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

66.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

66.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 27(1), but as if—

66.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to causing a
voter’s or proxy’s vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

66.9.b.1A.b

in rule 27(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 27 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

66.10

In rule 29 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

66.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

66.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

66.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under paragraph (a) as they apply in the case of a voter or proxy who
applies under rule 27(1), but as if—

66.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter or proxy were to granting a
voter’s or proxy’s application, and

66.10.b.2A.b

in rule 27(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 27 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

66.11

In rule 30 (tendered ballot papers: circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

66.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 27 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter or proxy who applies for a ballot paper under rule 27(1), but as if in
rule 27(1G), the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1)
of rule 27 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper
under the paragraph of this rule under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

66.12

After rule 31 (tendered ballot papers: general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

66.12.31A

66.12.31A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one other than as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on
the ballot paper refusal list—

66.12.31A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

66.12.31A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

66.12.31A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

66.12.31A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

66.12.31A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

66.12.31A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

66.12.31A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy
under rule 27(1E), and

66.12.31A.3.b

the voter or proxy makes a further application under rule 27(1).

66.12.31A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter or proxy following a further
application, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the
ballot paper refusal list.

66.12.31A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter
or proxy, the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot
paper refusal list.

66.12.31A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or
proxy is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter or proxy).

66.12.31A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

66.12.31A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

66.12.31A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

66.12.31A.8

Subject to rule 27(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter or proxy is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

66.12.31A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter or proxy is subject to review
in proceedings brought as mentioned in section 61N(3) of the 1990 Act.

66.12.31A.10

In this rule—

66.12.31A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 25(3) or
27(1E), and

66.12.31A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 27 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 28, 29 or 30.

.

66.13

In rule 35 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

66.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 31A;

.

66.14

In rule 44 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(a) insert—

66.14.aa

the completed ballot paper refusal list; or

.

66.15

In rule 45 (delivery of documents to relevant registration officer), in
paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

66.15.da

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list;

.

66.16

In rule 46 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

66.16.1A

An order—

66.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

66.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the High Court or the county court if satisfied by evidence on
oath that the order is required for the purpose of proceedings brought as
mentioned in section 61N(3) of the 1990 Act.

.

66.17

In Part 8 (appendix of forms)—

66.17.a

in the list of Forms, after the entry “Form 11—Official Proxy Postal Poll Card
(to be sent to an appointed proxy voting by post)” insert  “Form 11A—Ballot
Paper Refusal List” ;

66.17.b

for Form 8 (official poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of
Schedule 11;

66.17.c

for Form 10 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in
Part 2 of Schedule 11;

66.17.d

after Form 11 (official proxy postal poll card) insert new Form 11A (ballot
paper refusal list) as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 11;

66.17.e

for Form 12 (form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 11.

#### Amendment of Schedule 6 (registering to vote in a business referendum)

67

In Schedule 6 (registering to vote in a business referendum), omit paragraph
38(1)(e).

#### Amendment of the 2016 Regulations

68

The 2016 Regulations are amended in accordance with regulations  69  to  92 .

#### Amendment of regulation 2 (application)

69

In regulation 2 (application), in paragraph (2)—

69.a

before sub-paragraph (a) insert—

69.a.za

regulation 20A (provision of private area for production of proof of
identity);

;

69.b

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

69.b.aa

regulation 30A (refusal to deliver signing sheet);

;

69.c

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

69.c.ea

regulation 63A (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy on grounds relation to identification);

;

69.d

in sub-paragraph (i), after “particular petition” insert  “on grounds relating
to occupation, service or employment” ;

69.e

after sub-paragraph (i) insert—

69.e.ia

regulation 69A (additional requirements: applications for an emergency proxy
signature in respect of a particular petition on grounds relating to
identification);

;

69.f

after sub-paragraph (j) insert—

69.f.ja

regulation 71A (grounds relating to identification);

.

#### Amendment of regulation 3 (interpretation)

70

In regulation 3 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

70.a

after the definition of “allotted petition signing place” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

70.b

after the definition of “special lists” insert—

      “ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in
regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 17 (appointment of petition assistants)

71

In regulation 17 (appointment of petition assistants), in paragraph (3)—

71.a

in sub-paragraph (b)—

71.a.i

after “sheet under” insert  “paragraph (3A) of regulation 25 (questions to be
put to persons signing the petition), paragraph (1E) of regulation 27 (signing
procedure in England and Wales and Scotland) or” ;

71.a.ii

for “that paragraph” substitute  “those paragraphs” ;

71.b

after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

71.b.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in paragraph (1F) of regulation 27
(including that paragraph as applied by regulation 29 or regulation 30).

.

#### Amendment of regulation 18 (issue of official petition notice)

72

In regulation 18 (issue of official petition notice), in paragraph (7)—

72.a

after sub-paragraph (f) insert—

72.a.fa

in respect of an official petition notice described in paragraph (6)(a) or (c)
for a recall petition held in England, Wales or Scotland, details of the
documents the elector or proxy needs to produce when applying for a signing
sheet, namely—

72.a.fa.i

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

72.a.fa.ii

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official
petition notice and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same number on
the register as the number on the register shown on the official petition
notice;

;

72.b

in paragraph (8), after “(f)” insert  “, (fa)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 19 (equipment at petition signing place)

73

In regulation 19 (equipment at petition signing place)—

73.a

after paragraph (3) insert—

73.a.3A

For a petition signing place in England, Wales or Scotland, the petition
officer must also provide each petition signing place with a signing sheet
refusal list, in the form set out in Form G1 in Schedule 2 or a form to like
effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in regulation 30A
(refusal to deliver signing sheet: England and Wales and Scotland).

;

73.b

after paragraph (5) insert—

73.b.5A

A large notice must be displayed inside each petition signing place in
England, Wales and Scotland containing—

73.b.5A.a

details of the documents that a person needs to produce when applying for a
signing sheet, namely—

73.b.5A.a.i

in the case of a person (other than a person with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time referred to in rule
37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

73.b.5A.a.ii

in the case of a person with an anonymous entry, the person’s official
petition notice and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral
number as the number shown on the official petition notice; and

73.b.5A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the person attending that place for the
purpose of signing the petition claims to be.

.

#### New regulation 20A (provision of private area for production of proof of identity: England and Wales and Scotland)

74

After regulation 20 (identification of secure storage) insert—

######## Provision of private area for production of proof of identity: England and Wales and Scotland

74.20A

The petition officer must ensure that each petition signing place in England,
Wales and Scotland contains an area in which a person who attends that place
for the purpose of signing the petition can produce proof of identity in
private.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 25 (questions to be put to persons signing the petition)

75

In regulation 25 (questions to be put to persons signing the petition)—

75.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Questions”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal signers) and entry 6 (proxy postal signers),
before question (a) insert—

75.a.za

At a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland, “What is your name?”

75.a.zb

At a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland, “What is your address?”

;

75.b

after paragraph (3) insert—

75.b.3A

Where at a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland an assistant appointed
to assist the petition clerk—

75.b.3A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (6)),

75.b.3A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to a person, and

75.b.3A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the assistant must refer the matter to the petition clerk, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

75.c

in paragraph (4), for “A” substitute  “At a petition held in Northern Ireland,
a” ;

75.d

after paragraph (4) insert—

75.d.4A

Where at a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland the petition clerk—

75.d.4A.a

gives a person the required information,

75.d.4A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (3A)), and

75.d.4A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the petition clerk must refuse to deliver a signing sheet to the person (and
see regulation 30A (procedure where signing sheet is refused under this
paragraph)).

75.d.4B

For the purposes of this regulation, a person answers the question “What is
your name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

75.d.4B.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register;

75.d.4B.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

75.d.4C

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13BC(6) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in paragraph
(4B) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section 13BC(6).

;

75.e

in paragraph (5), after “petition” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a person
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to sign the
petition)” ;

75.f

after paragraph (5) insert—

75.f.6

For the purposes of this regulation, a person to whom any question is to be
put is given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

75.f.6.a

a signing sheet will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

75.f.6.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 27 (signing procedure: England and Wales and Scotland)

76

76.1

Regulation 27 (signing procedure: England and Wales and Scotland) is amended
as follows.

76.2

In paragraph (1)—

76.2.a

for “A” substitute  “Subject to regulation 25(4A) and to paragraphs (1A) to
(1N), a” ;

76.2.b

omit sub-paragraph (a).

76.3

After paragraph (1) insert—

76.3.1A

A signing sheet must not be delivered to a person unless the person produces a
specified document to the petition clerk or an assistant to the petition
clerk.

76.3.1B

The petition clerk or assistant must arrange for the person to produce any
document in a private area of the petition signing place if the person so
requests, and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the
production except as permitted by the person.

76.3.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a person where—

76.3.1C.a

the person produces a specified document to an assistant to the petition clerk
and the assistant decides that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to
whether the person is the elector or proxy that the person claims to be, or

76.3.1C.b

the person produces a document to an assistant that the assistant reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

76.3.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the assistant must refer the matter and produce
the document to the petition clerk, who must proceed as if the person had
produced the document to the petition clerk in the first place.

76.3.1E

The petition clerk must refuse to deliver a signing sheet to a person where—

76.3.1E.a

the person produces a specified document to the clerk and the clerk decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the person is the
elector or proxy that the person claims to be, or

76.3.1E.b

the person produces a document to the clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects
to be a forged document.

76.3.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

76.3.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the person claims to be is resolved to the
petition clerk’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the person
producing further proof of identity, and

76.3.1F.b

the petition clerk has no other reason (arising from any document produced by
the person) to doubt that the person is the elector or proxy that the person
claims to be.

76.3.1G

The refusal to deliver a signing sheet to a person under paragraph (1E) does
not prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

76.3.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

76.3.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

76.3.1I.a

except in the case of a person who has an anonymous entry in the register, is
one which for the time being falls within the list specified in rule 37(1H) of
Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election rules);

76.3.1I.b

in the case of a person who has an anonymous entry in the register, means an
anonymous elector’s document which—

76.3.1I.b.i

was issued by the appropriate registration officer;

76.3.1I.b.ii

contains the number allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the
register.

76.3.1J

(1J) In paragraph (1I)(b)(i), the “ appropriate registration officer ” means—

76.3.1J.a

the registration officer of the local authority in whose area the constituency
of the MP to whom the petition relates is situated, or

76.3.1J.b

where the petition relates to a constituency for which there is more than one
registration officer, any of those officers.

76.3.1K

Subject to paragraph (1L), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

76.3.1L

Paragraph (1K) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date for which the temporary electoral identity document is issued is
before the designated day.

76.3.1M

No person other than the petition clerk or an assistant to the petition clerk
may inspect a document produced as proof of a person’s identity, except as
permitted by the person.

76.3.1N

References in this regulation to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

.

76.4

In paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end.

76.5

In paragraph (3), for “subparagraphs (a) and (c) of paragraph (1)” substitute
“paragraphs (1)(c) and (1I)(b)(ii)” .

#### Amendment of regulation 29 (signing sheets endorsed by petition clerk)

77

In regulation 29 (signing sheets endorsed by petition clerk), after paragraph
(2) insert—

77.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1N) of regulation 27 (signing procedure: England and Wales
and Scotland) apply in the case of a person who applies under paragraph (1) as
they apply in the case of a person who applies under regulation 27(1), but as
if—

77.2A.a

references to delivering a signing sheet to a person were references to
endorsing a signing sheet, and

77.2A.b

in regulation 27(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of regulation 27 were a
reference to paragraph (1) of this regulation.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 30 (tendered signing sheets)

78

In regulation 30 (tendered signing sheets), after paragraph (7) insert—

78.7A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1N) of regulation 27 (signing procedure: England and Wales
and Scotland) apply in the case of a person entitled to sign a tendered
signing sheet as they apply in the case of a person who applies for a signing
sheet under regulation 27(1), but as if in regulation 27(1G), the reference to
making a further application under regulation 27(1) were to seeking a further
time to mark a tendered ballot paper under the paragraph of this regulation
under which a previous such attempt was made.

.

#### New regulation 30A (refusal to deliver signing sheet: England and Wales and Scotland)

79

After regulation 30 (tendered signing sheets) insert—

######## Refusal to deliver signing sheet: England and Wales and Scotland

79.30A

79.30A.1

This regulation applies where a petition clerk refuses to deliver a signing
sheet under regulation 27(1E) (including that paragraph as applied by
regulation 29 (signing sheets endorsed by the petition clerk) or regulation 30
(tendered signing sheets)).

79.30A.2

Where a petition clerk refuses to deliver a signing sheet to a person who
applied for one as an elector, the clerk or an assistant to the clerk must
enter on the signing sheet refusal list—

79.30A.2.a

the person’s electoral number, and

79.30A.2.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

79.30A.3

Where a petition clerk refuses to deliver a signing sheet to a person who
applied for one as a proxy, the clerk or an assistant to the clerk must enter
on the signing sheet refusal list—

79.30A.3.a

the name and address of the elector, and

79.30A.3.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

79.30A.4

Paragraphs (5) and (6) apply where—

79.30A.4.a

a petition clerk refuses to deliver a signing sheet to a person under
regulation 27(1E), and

79.30A.4.b

the person makes a further application under regulation 27(1).

79.30A.5

If a signing sheet is delivered to the person following a further application,
the petition clerk or an assistant to the petition clerk must note that fact
on the signing sheet refusal list.

79.30A.6

If the petition clerk again refuses to deliver a signing sheet to the person,
the petition clerk or an assistant to the petition clerk must note that fact
on the signing sheet refusal list.

79.30A.7

Entries required by this regulation to be made to the signing sheet refusal
list must be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a signing sheet to
a person is refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (5), as soon as
practicable after the delivery of a signing sheet to a person).

79.30A.8

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

79.30A.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register, or

79.30A.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13BC(6) of the 1983 Act, as stated in the copy
of that notice.

79.30A.9

Subject to regulation 27(1G) and paragraph (10), a refusal to deliver a
signing sheet to a person is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding
whatsoever.

79.30A.10

A refusal to deliver a signing sheet to a person is subject to review on a
recall petition complaint.

79.30A.11

In this regulation—

79.30A.11.a

except in paragraph (4)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a signing
sheet (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under regulation 25(4A)
or 27(1G), and

79.30A.11.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) or regulation 27 includes a reference
to that paragraph as applied by regulation 29 or 30.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 33 (daily verification and storage)

80

In regulation 33 (daily verification and storage), in paragraph (5) after sub-
paragraph (e) insert—

80.ea

the signing sheet refusal list;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 37 (procedure on close of petition)

81

In regulation 37 (procedure on close of petition), in paragraph (1) after sub-
paragraph (e) insert—

81.ea

in the case of a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland, the signing
sheet refusal list completed in accordance with regulation 30A;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 43 (sealing up of signing sheets)

82

In regulation 43 (sealing up of signing sheets), in paragraph (2) after sub-
paragraph (b) insert—

82.ba

in the case of a petition held in England, Wales or Scotland, the completed
signing sheet refusal list;

.

#### Amendment of regulation 44 (delivery of documents to the registration officer: England and Wales and Northern Ireland)

83

In regulation 44 (delivery of documents to the registration officer: England
and Wales and Northern Ireland), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (d)
insert—

83.da

in the case of a petition held in England or Wales, the packet containing the
completed signing sheet refusal list,

.

#### Amendment of regulation 45 (orders for production of documents: England and Wales and Northern Ireland)

84

In regulation 45 (orders for production of documents: England and Wales and
Northern Ireland), after paragraph (1) insert—

84.1A

In respect of a petition held in England or Wales, an order may be made by the
bodies and in the circumstances described in paragraph (2)—

84.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed signing sheet
refusal list, or

84.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 60 (general requirements for applications for absent signing)

85

In regulation 60 (general requirements for applications for absent signing),
in paragraph (6) at the end insert  “and (where applicable) regulation 63
(additional requirement for applications for the appointment of a proxy) and
regulation 63A (additional requirements for applications for the appointment
of a proxy on grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and
Scotland)” .

#### New regulation 63A (additional requirements for applications for the appointment of a proxy on grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland)

86

After regulation 63 (additional requirements for applications for the
appointment of a proxy) insert—

######## Additional requirements for applications for the appointment of a proxy on grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland

86.63A

86.63A.1

Paragraph (2) applies where—

86.63A.1.a

an applicant (“ A ”) makes an application under regulation 57(6) or (7) for
the appointment of a proxy for the purposes of signing a petition held in
England or Wales or Scotland;

86.63A.1.b

A has previously appointed a person (“ B ”) as A’s proxy for those purposes;

86.63A.1.c

at the time of making the application, B’s appointment remains in force; and

86.63A.1.d

A’s application is made on grounds relating to identification which relate to
B.

86.63A.2

Where this paragraph applies A’s application must

86.63A.2.a

state that this paragraph applies, and

86.63A.2.b

state, to the best of A’s knowledge and belief, which of the conditions set
out in regulation 71A apply in respect of B.

86.63A.3

In paragraph (2)—

86.63A.3.a

in sub-paragraph (a), the reference to an application under regulation 57(7)
includes such an application which is included in an application under 53(2);

86.63A.3.b

in sub-paragraph (d), “ grounds relating to identification ” has the meaning
given in regulation 71A.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 69 (additional requirements: applications for an emergency proxy signature in respect of a particular petition: England and Wales and Scotland)

87

In regulation 69 (additional requirements: applications for an emergency proxy
signature in respect of a particular petition: England and Wales and
Scotland), in the heading after “petition” insert  “on grounds relating to
occupation, service or employment” .

#### New regulation 69A (additional requirements: applications for an emergency proxy signature in respect of a particular petition on grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland)

88

After regulation 69 insert—

######## Additional requirements: applications for an emergency proxy signature in respect of a particular petition on grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland

88.69A

88.69A.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this regulation applies to an application under
regulation 53(2) to which regulation 71(4A) applies.

88.69A.2

This regulation does not apply where—

88.69A.2.a

the application under regulation 53(2) includes an application under
regulation 57(7), and

88.69A.2.b

regulation 63A(2) applies to that application under regulation 57(7).

88.69A.3

Where this regulation applies, the application under regulation 53(2) must (in
addition to providing any other information required by this Chapter)—

88.69A.3.a

state that it is made on grounds relating to identification, and

88.69A.3.b

state which of the conditions set out in regulation 71A apply to the
applicant.

88.69A.4

In paragraph (3)(a), “ grounds relating to identification ” has the meaning
given in regulation 71A.

.

#### Amendment of regulation 71 (closing date for applications: England and Wales and Scotland)

89

89.1

Regulation 71 (closing date for applications: England and Wales and Scotland)
is amended as follows.

89.2

In paragraph (2), for “An” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), an” .

89.3

After that paragraph insert—

89.3.2A

An application under regulation 57(6) which is made on grounds relating to
identification must be disregarded for the purposes of a particular petition
if it is received by the registration officer after the relevant time on the
last day of the signing period at the petition for which it is made.

.

89.4

In paragraph (3), for “paragraph (4)” substitute  “paragraphs (4) or (4A)” .

89.5

In paragraph (4)—

89.5.a

after “received” insert  “after the relevant time” ;

89.5.b

omit the words from “less than 5 hours” to the end.

89.6

After paragraph (4) insert—

89.6.4A

Where an application is made under regulation 53(2) or 57(7) on grounds
relating to identification, the application must be refused if it is received
after the relevant time on the last day of the signing period at the petition
for which it is made.

89.6.4B

In paragraphs (2A) and (4A), “ grounds relating to identification ” has the
meaning given in regulation 71A.

.

89.7

After paragraph (7) insert—

89.7.8

In this regulation, “the relevant time” on the last day of the signing period
means—

89.7.8.a

5pm, or

89.7.8.b

if earlier, the beginning of the final hour that the petition is available for
signing on that day.

.

#### New regulation 71A (grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland)

90

After regulation 71 insert—

######## Grounds relating to identification: England and Wales and Scotland

90.71A

90.71A.1

For the purposes of this Part, an application is made on grounds relating to
identification if it is made because the following apply to B—

90.71A.1.a

condition 1, 2 or 3, and

90.71A.1.b

except where B has an anonymous entry in the register, condition 4.

90.71A.2

In this regulation, “ B ” means—

90.71A.2.a

the applicant, where—

90.71A.2.a.i

the application is made under regulation 53(2), and

90.71A.2.a.ii

regulation 63A(2) does not apply to the application made under regulation
57(7) which is included in that application under regulation 53(2);

90.71A.2.b

otherwise, the person already appointed as the applicant’s proxy at the time
the application is made.

90.71A.3

Condition 1 is that—

90.71A.3.a

immediately before the deadline, B has a specified document which B intends to
use to sign the petition in person, and

90.71A.3.b

after that deadline, that document is—

90.71A.3.b.i

lost, stolen, destroyed or damaged so as to be no longer usable as a specified
document for the purposes of that petition, or

90.71A.3.b.ii

sent by B to another person to prove B’s identity, and B considers it is
unlikely to be returned to B on or before the last day of the signing period
at that petition.

90.71A.4

Condition 2 is that—

90.71A.4.a

at a time during the period of 3 months ending with the deadline, B has
applied for a specified document,

90.71A.4.b

immediately before the deadline, B has not received that document, and

90.71A.4.c

the application for the specified document has not been refused or withdrawn.

90.71A.5

Condition 3 is that—

90.71A.5.a

B has an anonymous entry in the register, and

90.71A.5.b

either—

90.71A.5.b.i

B has not been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, or

90.71A.5.b.ii

B has been issued with an anonymous elector’s document, and after the deadline
B is allocated an electoral number which is different from the one shown on
that document other than as a result of an application under section 9B of the
1983 Act (anonymous registration).

90.71A.6

Condition 4 is that B does not have access to another specified document.

90.71A.7

In this regulation—

90.71A.7.a

the “ deadline ” means 5pm on the sixth day before the last day of the signing
period at the petition to which the application relates;

90.71A.7.b

“ specified document ” has the meaning given in regulation 27(1I).

.

#### Amendment of regulation 144 (forms)

91

In regulation 144 (forms)—

91.a

in paragraph (2)(b), for “or Part 2 of that Schedule” substitute  “of that
Schedule or in an order made under section 26(2) of the Welsh Language Act
1993  as applied by section 21(5) of the Act” ;

91.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

91.b.2A

Paragraph (2)(c) does not apply to a reference to form G1.

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 2 (forms)

92

In Schedule 2 (forms)—

92.a

in Part 1 (United Kingdom)—

92.a.i

for Form D (official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition
in person), substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 12;

92.a.ii

for Form F (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person), substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 12;

92.a.iii

after Form G (official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition
by post), insert new Form G1 (signing sheet refusal list) as set out in
Schedule 12;

92.a.iv

for Form H (guidance for person signing the petition), substitute the
corresponding form in Schedule 12;

92.a.v

for Form J (proxy paper), substitute the corresponding form in Schedule 12;

92.b

omit Part 2 (Welsh forms).

#### Amendment of the Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017

93

The Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017 is amended in
accordance with regulations  94  to  96 .

#### Amendment of Schedule 1 (combined authorities mayoral election rules)

94

94.1

Schedule 1 (combined authorities mayoral election rules) is amended as
follows.

94.2

In the list of contents—

94.2.a

in the appropriate place insert  “41A Refusal to deliver ballot paper” ;

94.2.b

in the appropriate place insert  “41B Collection and disclosure of information
relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40” ;

94.2.c

in the appropriate place insert  “Form 11A—Ballot paper refusal list” .

94.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), for paragraph (1) substitute—

94.3.1

In these Rules—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;           “ the Appendix ”
means the Appendix to these Rules contained in Part 9 of this Schedule;
“ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

.

94.4

In rule 25 (provision of polling stations) after paragraph (4) insert—

94.4.5

The returning officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area
in which voters can produce proof of identity in private.

.

94.5

In rule 26 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3), for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

94.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

94.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 35(3) or rule 37(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rules 38, 39 or 40), or

94.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 37(1F) (including that rule
as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40).

.

94.6

In rule 28 (equipment of polling stations)—

94.6.a

in paragraph (3) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

94.6.a.e

a ballot paper refusal list, in the appropriate form in the Appendix or a form
to like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 41A
(refusal to deliver ballot paper).

;

94.6.b

after paragraph (6) insert—

94.6.b.6A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

94.6.b.6A.a

details of the documents the elector or proxy needs to produce when applying
for a ballot paper, namely—

94.6.b.6A.a.i

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

94.6.b.6A.a.ii

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official poll
card and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as
the electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

94.6.b.6A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be.

.

94.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

94.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Question”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

94.7.a.za

What is your name?

94.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

94.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

94.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

94.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

94.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

94.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

94.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

94.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

94.7.c.3.a

gives a person the required information,

94.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

94.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
41A (procedure where ballot paper is refused under this paragraph)).

94.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

94.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of local government electors;

94.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

94.7.c.3B

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

94.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

94.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

94.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

94.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

94.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

94.8

In rule 37 (voting procedure)—

94.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

94.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 35(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

94.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

94.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

94.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter unless the voter produces a
specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

94.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter to produce any
document in a private area of the polling station if the voter so requests,
and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the production
except as permitted by the voter.

94.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter where—

94.8.b.1C.a

the voter produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk decides that
the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the elector
or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

94.8.b.1C.b

the voter produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects to
be a forged document.

94.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter had
produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

94.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter where—

94.8.b.1E.a

the voter produces a specified document to the officer and the officer decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the
elector or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

94.8.b.1E.b

the voter produces a document to the officer that the officer reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

94.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

94.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be is resolved to the
presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the voter
producing further proof of identity, and

94.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter) to doubt that the voter is the elector or proxy that the voter
claims to be.

94.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under paragraph (1E) does not
prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

94.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

94.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

94.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means a document which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

94.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of electors,
means an anonymous elector’s document which—

94.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the constituent council in whose
area the polling station to which the voter is allotted is situated,

94.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

94.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

94.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

94.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

94.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the election is after the date for which the document
is issued.

94.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

94.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

94.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

94.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

94.9

In rule 38 (votes marked by presiding officer)—

94.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

94.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

94.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as if—

94.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to causing a voter’s
vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

94.9.b.1A.b

in rule 37(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

94.10

In rule 39 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

94.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

94.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

94.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as if—

94.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to granting a voter’s
application, and

94.10.b.2A.b

in rule 37(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

94.11

In rule 40 (tendered ballot papers—circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

94.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter who applies for a ballot paper under rule 37(1), but as if, in rule
37(1G) the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1) of
rule 37 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper under
the paragraph of this rule under which the first such attempt was made.

.

94.12

After rule 41 (tendered ballot papers—general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

94.12.41A

94.12.41A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as an elector, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

94.12.41A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

94.12.41A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

94.12.41A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

94.12.41A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

94.12.41A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

94.12.41A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

94.12.41A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under rule
37(1E), and

94.12.41A.3.b

the voter makes a further application as permitted by rule 37(1G).

94.12.41A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter following that application, the
presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper refusal
list.

94.12.41A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter,
the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper
refusal list.

94.12.41A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter is
refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as practicable
after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter).

94.12.41A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

94.12.41A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

94.12.41A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

94.12.41A.8

Subject to rule 37(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding whatsoever.

94.12.41A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter is subject to review on an
election petition.

94.12.41A.10

In this rule—

94.12.41A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 35(3) or
37(1E), and

94.12.41A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 37 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40.

########## Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40

94.12.41B

94.12.41B.1

This rule applies in relation to an election to which the Secretary of State’s
duty under section 59A(4) of the 1983 Act (reports on voter identification
requirements in respect of local government elections) applies by virtue of
subsection (5A) of that section.

94.12.41B.2

The presiding officer must—

94.12.41B.2.a

collect the information described in regulation  34  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collection of information by presiding
officer) relating to applications made under rules 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or
40(1), and

94.12.41B.2.b

provide that information to the returning officer as soon as practicable after
the close of the poll.

94.12.41B.3

The returning officer must forward the information to the relevant
registration officer.

94.12.41B.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving the information the relevant
registration officer must—

94.12.41B.4.a

anonymise the information by removing from it all names and electoral numbers
of the people to whom the information relates, and

94.12.41B.4.b

collate the information in accordance with regulation  35  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collation of information by relevant
registration officer).

The information as anonymised and collated in accordance with this paragraph
is referred to in the rest of this rule as “the paragraph (4) information”.

94.12.41B.5

The relevant registration officer must provide the paragraph (4) information—

94.12.41B.5.a

to the Secretary of State, as soon as reasonably practicable after taking the
steps required by paragraph (4), and

94.12.41B.5.b

where they request the information, to the Electoral Commission.

94.12.41B.6

The relevant registration officer must not disclose the paragraph (4)
information otherwise than in accordance with paragraph (5).

94.12.41B.7

The relevant registration officer must retain the information anonymised in
accordance with paragraph (4)(a) for at least 10 years.

94.12.41B.8

For the purpose of paragraph (4)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

94.12.41B.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

94.12.41B.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

94.12.41B.9

Except as provided by paragraph (10), a disclosure of information under this
rule does not breach—

94.12.41B.9.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the presiding officer, the returning
officer or a registration officer, or

94.12.41B.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

94.12.41B.10

Nothing in this rule authorises the making of a disclosure that contravenes
the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would
do so, the duties imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be taken into
account).

94.12.41B.11

In this rule—

94.12.41B.11.a

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018;

94.12.41B.11.b

references to the relevant registration officer are to the registration
officer of the constituent council in relation to whose area the returning
officer exercises functions under this Order.

.

94.13

In rule 45 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

94.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 41A,

.

94.14

In rule 61 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(b) insert—

94.14.ba

the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

94.15

In rule 62 (delivery and retention of documents), after paragraph (c) insert—

94.15.ca

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

94.16

In rule 63 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

94.16.1A

An order—

94.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

94.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of an election petition.

.

94.17

In Part 9 (appendix of forms)—

94.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Form 11: Official proxy postal poll
card” insert  “Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list” ;

94.17.b

for Form 8 (official poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 1 of
Schedule 13;

94.17.c

for Form 10 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in
Part 1 of Schedule 13;

94.17.d

after Form 11 (official proxy postal poll card) insert new Form 11A (ballot
paper refusal list) as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 13;

94.17.e

for Form 12 (directions for the guidance of voters) substitute the
corresponding form in Part 1 of Schedule 13.

#### Amendment of Schedule 2 (modifications of Acts and statutory instrument)

95

In Schedule 2 (modifications of Acts and statutory instrument), in paragraph 1
(Representation of the People Act 1983)—

95.a

in sub-paragraph (6), omit “and Wales” in both places it occurs;

95.b

in sub-paragraphs (7)(c) and (d)(i) and (8)(c)(i), after “section 36” insert
“or section 36A” ;

95.c

after sub-paragraph (14) insert—

95.c.14A

Section 59A (reports on voter identification requirements in Great Britain)
has effect as if—

95.c.14A.a

after subsection (5) there were inserted—

95.c.14A.a.5A

Where this subsection applies, a report prepared in accordance with subsection
(4) must also include the effect of the combined authority mayoral election
corresponding requirements on applications made under the provisions of rules
made under paragraph 12 of Schedule 5B to the 2009 Act corresponding to rules
37(1), 38(1), 39(1) and 40(1) of the parliamentary elections rules.

95.c.14A.a.5B

Subsection (5A) applies in respect of a combined authority mayoral election
where—

95.c.14A.a.5B.a

the day of poll for that combined authority mayoral election is the same day
as the poll for the ordinary elections of councillors described in subsection
(4),

95.c.14A.a.5B.b

the combined authority mayoral election relates to a local government area to
which the duty in subsection (4) otherwise applies, and

95.c.14A.a.5B.c

the timing of that combined authority mayoral election is not determined in
accordance with article 6 of the Combined Authorities (Mayors) (Filling of
Vacancies) Order 2017 (filling of casual vacancies by by-elections) .

95.c.14A.a.5C

In subsection (5A), “ combined authority mayoral election corresponding
requirements ” means the requirements corresponding to the voter
identification requirements that have effect in relation to combined authority
mayoral elections by virtue of rules made under paragraph 12 of Schedule 5B to
the 2009 Act.

;

95.c.14A.b

in subsection (6), after paragraph (b) there were inserted—

95.c.14A.b.c

in the case of a report under subsection (4) to which subsection (5A) applies,
information provided to the Secretary of State under any provision of rules
made under paragraph 12 of Schedule 5B to the 2009 Act corresponding to rule
40B of the parliamentary elections rules.

.

;

95.d

in sub-paragraph (15), after paragraph (b) insert—

95.d.ba

in subsection (6ZB), for “2)(a)(i), (2A)(a) to (c), (3)(a)(i) and (3A)(a) to
(c)” there were substituted  “(2A)(a) to (c), (2B), (3A)(a) to (c) and (3B)” ;

.

#### Amendment of Schedule 3 (combined authority mayoral election combination of polls rules)

96

96.1

Schedule 3 (combined authority mayoral election combination of polls rules) is
amended as follows.

96.2

In the list of contents—

96.2.a

in the appropriate place insert  “41A Refusal to deliver ballot paper” ;

96.2.b

in the appropriate place insert  “41B Collection and disclosure of information
relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40” ;

96.2.c

in the appropriate place insert  “Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list” .

96.3

In rule 2 (interpretation), in paragraph (1)—

96.3.a

before the definition of “the Appendix” insert—

      “ anonymous elector’s document ” has the meaning given in regulation
3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022;

;

96.3.b

after the definition of “polling observer” insert—

      “ temporary electoral identity document ” has the meaning given in
regulation  3(1)  of the Voter Identification Regulations 2022.

.

96.4

In rule 25 (provision of polling stations) after paragraph (4) insert—

96.4.5

The returning officer must ensure that each polling station contains an area
in which voters can produce proof of identity in private.

.

96.5

In rule 26 (appointment of presiding officers and polling clerks), in
paragraph (3), for the words from “except” to the end substitute—

except—

96.5.a

order the arrest, exclusion or removal of any person from the polling station,

96.5.b

refuse to deliver a ballot paper under rule 35(3) or rule 37(1E) (including
that rule as applied by rules 38, 39 or 40), or

96.5.c

resolve doubts over identity as mentioned in rule 37(1F) (including that rule
as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40).

.

96.6

In rule 28 (equipment of polling stations)—

96.6.a

in paragraph (4) after sub-paragraph (d) insert—

96.6.a.e

a ballot paper refusal list, in the appropriate form in the Appendix or a form
to like effect, on which entries are to be made as mentioned in rule 41A
(refusal to deliver ballot paper).

;

96.6.b

after paragraph (8) insert—

96.6.b.8A

A large notice must be displayed inside each polling station containing—

96.6.b.8A.a

details of the documents the elector or proxy needs to produce when applying
for a ballot paper, namely—

96.6.b.8A.a.i

in the case of an elector (other than an elector with an anonymous entry) or a
proxy, any of the forms of identification for the time being referred to in
rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary elections rules);

96.6.b.8A.a.ii

in the case of an elector with an anonymous entry, the elector’s official poll
card and an anonymous elector’s document showing the same electoral number as
the electoral number shown on the official poll card; and

96.6.b.8A.b

a statement that further proof of identity may be required to resolve any
discrepancy between the name of the holder of a form of identification and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be.

.

96.7

In rule 35 (questions to be put to voters)—

96.7.a

in the table following paragraph (1), in the column headed “Question”, in
entry 1 (electors), entry 2 (proxies), entry 3 (proxies for an elector with an
anonymous entry), entry 5 (postal voters) and entry 6 (proxy postal voters),
before question (a) insert—

96.7.a.za

What is your name?

96.7.a.zb

What is your address?

;

96.7.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

96.7.b.2A

Where a clerk—

96.7.b.2A.a

gives a person the required information (see paragraph (5)),

96.7.b.2A.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person, and

96.7.b.2A.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the clerk must refer the matter to the presiding officer, who must put the
question to the person again.

;

96.7.c

for paragraph (3) substitute—

96.7.c.3

Where the presiding officer—

96.7.c.3.a

gives a person the required information,

96.7.c.3.b

puts a question specified in paragraph (1) to the person (whether or not
following a referral under paragraph (2A)), and

96.7.c.3.c

decides that the person has failed to answer the question satisfactorily,

the officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to the person (and see rule
41A (procedure where ballot paper is refused under this paragraph)).

96.7.c.3A

For the purposes of this rule, a person answers the question “What is your
name?” or “What is your address?” satisfactorily if—

96.7.c.3A.a

where one of those questions is put, the answer matches a name or address (as
the case may be) in the register of local government electors;

96.7.c.3A.b

where both those questions are put, the answers match a name and address in
that register that relate to the same person.

96.7.c.3B

In the case of an elector in respect of whom a notice has been issued under
section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, the references to the register in
paragraph (3A) are to be read as references to the notice issued under section
13B(3B) or (3D).

;

96.7.d

in paragraph (4), after “vote” insert  “(and for the purposes of this
paragraph, an inquiry relating to the production of identification by a voter
is not to be regarded as an inquiry as to the right of the person to vote)” ;

96.7.e

after paragraph (4) insert—

96.7.e.5

For the purposes of this rule, a person to whom any question is to be put is
given “the required information” if the person is first informed that—

96.7.e.5.a

a ballot paper will be refused if the person fails to answer each question
satisfactorily, and

96.7.e.5.b

giving false information may be an offence.

.

96.8

In rule 37 (voting procedure)—

96.8.a

in paragraph (1)—

96.8.a.i

for “A” substitute  “Subject to rule 35(3) and to paragraphs (1A) to (1M), a”
;

96.8.a.ii

omit sub-paragraph (a);

96.8.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

96.8.b.1A

A ballot paper must not be delivered to a voter unless the voter produces a
specified document to the presiding officer or a clerk.

96.8.b.1B

The presiding officer or clerk must arrange for the voter to produce any
document in a private area of the polling station if the voter so requests,
and, in such a case, must ensure that no other persons witness the production
except as permitted by the voter.

96.8.b.1C

Paragraph (1D) applies in relation to a voter where—

96.8.b.1C.a

the voter produces a specified document to a clerk and the clerk decides that
the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the elector
or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

96.8.b.1C.b

the voter produces a document to a clerk that the clerk reasonably suspects to
be a forged document.

96.8.b.1D

Where this paragraph applies, the clerk must refer the matter and produce the
document to the presiding officer, who must proceed as if the voter had
produced the document to the presiding officer in the first place.

96.8.b.1E

The presiding officer must refuse to deliver a ballot paper to a voter where—

96.8.b.1E.a

the voter produces a specified document to the officer and the officer decides
that the document raises a reasonable doubt as to whether the voter is the
elector or proxy that the voter claims to be, or

96.8.b.1E.b

the voter produces a document to the officer that the officer reasonably
suspects to be a forged document.

96.8.b.1F

Paragraph (1E)(a) does not apply where—

96.8.b.1F.a

a discrepancy between the name of the holder of a specified document and the
name of the elector or proxy that the voter claims to be is resolved to the
presiding officer’s satisfaction at the time of the application by the voter
producing further proof of identity, and

96.8.b.1F.b

the presiding officer has no other reason (arising from any document produced
by the voter) to doubt that the voter is the elector or proxy that the voter
claims to be.

96.8.b.1G

The refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under paragraph (1E) does not
prevent the voter making a further application under paragraph (1), and
paragraphs (1A) to (1F) apply on any further application.

96.8.b.1H

In this rule, a “ forged document ” means a false document made to resemble a
specified document.

96.8.b.1I

In this rule, a “specified document”—

96.8.b.1I.a

except in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of
electors, means a document which for the time being falls within the list
specified in rule 37(1H) of Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act (parliamentary election
rules);

96.8.b.1I.b

in the case of a voter who has an anonymous entry in the register of electors,
means an anonymous elector’s document which—

96.8.b.1I.b.i

was issued by the registration officer for the constituent council in whose
area the polling station to which the voter is allotted is situated,

96.8.b.1I.b.ii

contains the number—

96.8.b.1I.b.ii.aa

allocated to the voter as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

96.8.b.1I.b.ii.bb

where an entry relating to the voter is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

96.8.b.1J

Subject to paragraph (1K), a reference in this rule to a document that is a
specified document is a reference to the document regardless of any expiry
date relating to it.

96.8.b.1K

Paragraph (1J) does not apply to a temporary electoral identity document where
the date of the poll for the election is after the date for which the document
is issued.

96.8.b.1L

No person other than the presiding officer or a clerk may inspect a document
produced as proof of a voter’s identity, except as permitted by the voter.

96.8.b.1M

References in this rule to producing a document are to producing it for
inspection.

;

96.8.c

in paragraph (2), omit the words from “and only” to the end;

96.8.d

omit paragraph (3)(a).

96.9

In rule 38 (votes marked by presiding officer)—

96.9.a

in paragraph (1), for “The” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (1A), the” ;

96.9.b

after paragraph (1) insert—

96.9.b.1A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as if—

96.9.b.1A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to causing a voter’s
vote to be marked on a ballot paper, and

96.9.b.1A.b

in rule 37(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

96.10

In rule 39 (voting by persons with disabilities)—

96.10.a

in paragraph (2), for “If” substitute  “Subject to paragraph (2A), if” ;

96.10.b

after paragraph (2) insert—

96.10.b.2A

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a voter who applies
under paragraph (1) of this rule as those paragraphs apply in the case of a
voter who applies under rule 37(1), but as if—

96.10.b.2A.a

references to delivering a ballot paper to a voter were to granting a voter’s
application, and

96.10.b.2A.b

in rule 37(1G), the reference to paragraph (1) of rule 37 were to paragraph
(1) of this rule.

.

96.11

In rule 40 (tendered ballot papers—circumstances where available), after
paragraph (6) insert—

96.11.7

Paragraphs (1A) to (1M) of rule 37 apply in the case of a person who seeks to
mark a tendered ballot paper under this rule as they apply in the case of a
voter who applies for a ballot paper under rule 37(1), but as if, in rule
37(1G) the reference to making a further application under paragraph (1) of
rule 37 were to seeking a further time to mark a tendered ballot paper under
the paragraph of this rule under which the first such attempt was made.

.

96.12

After rule 41 (tendered ballot papers—general provisions) insert—

########## Refusal to deliver ballot paper

96.12.41A

96.12.41A.1

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as an elector, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

96.12.41A.1.a

the voter’s electoral number, and

96.12.41A.1.b

against that number, the reason for the refusal.

96.12.41A.2

Where a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter who
applied for one as a proxy, the officer or a clerk must enter on the ballot
paper refusal list—

96.12.41A.2.a

the name and address of the voter, and

96.12.41A.2.b

against those details, the reason for the refusal.

96.12.41A.3

Paragraphs (4) and (5) apply where—

96.12.41A.3.a

a presiding officer refuses to deliver a ballot paper to a voter under rule
37(1E), and

96.12.41A.3.b

the voter makes a further application as permitted by rule 37(1G).

96.12.41A.4

If a ballot paper is delivered to the voter following that application, the
presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper refusal
list.

96.12.41A.5

If the presiding officer again refuses to deliver a ballot paper to the voter,
the presiding officer or a clerk must note that fact on the ballot paper
refusal list.

96.12.41A.6

Entries required by this rule to be made on the ballot paper refusal list must
be made as soon as practicable after delivery of a ballot paper to a voter is
refused (or, in the case mentioned in paragraph (4), as soon as practicable
after the delivery of a ballot paper to a voter).

96.12.41A.7

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

96.12.41A.7.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

96.12.41A.7.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

96.12.41A.8

Subject to rule 37(1G) and paragraph (9), a refusal to deliver a ballot paper
to a voter is final and may not be questioned in any proceeding whatsoever.

96.12.41A.9

A refusal to deliver a ballot paper to a voter is subject to review on an
election petition.

96.12.41A.10

In this rule—

96.12.41A.10.a

except in paragraph (3)(a), any reference to the refusal to deliver a ballot
paper (however expressed) is to the refusal to do so under rule 35(3) or
37(1E), and

96.12.41A.10.b

any reference to paragraph (1E) or (1G) of rule 37 includes a reference to
that paragraph as applied by rule 38, 39 or 40.

########## Collection and disclosure of information relating to applications made under rules 37 to 40

96.12.41B

96.12.41B.1

This rule applies in relation to an election to which the Secretary of State’s
duty under section 59A(4) of the 1983 Act (reports on voter identification
requirements in respect of local government elections) applies by virtue of
subsection (5A) of that section.

96.12.41B.2

The presiding officer must—

96.12.41B.2.a

collect the information described in regulation  34  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collection of information by presiding
officer) relating to applications made under rules 37(1), 38(1), 39(1) or
40(1), and

96.12.41B.2.b

provide that information to the returning officer as soon as practicable after
the close of the poll.

96.12.41B.3

The returning officer must forward the information to the relevant
registration officer.

96.12.41B.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after receiving the information the relevant
registration officer must—

96.12.41B.4.a

anonymise the information by removing from it all names and electoral numbers
of the people to whom the information relates, and

96.12.41B.4.b

collate the information in accordance with regulation  35  of the Voter
Identification Regulations 2022 (collation of information by relevant
registration officer).

The information as anonymised and collated in accordance with this paragraph
is referred to in the rest of this rule as “the paragraph (4) information”.

96.12.41B.5

The relevant registration officer must provide the paragraph (4) information—

96.12.41B.5.a

to the Secretary of State, as soon as reasonably practicable after taking the
steps required by paragraph (4), and

96.12.41B.5.b

where they request the information, to the Electoral Commission.

96.12.41B.6

The relevant registration officer must not disclose the paragraph (4)
information otherwise than in accordance with paragraph (5).

96.12.41B.7

The relevant registration officer must retain the information anonymised in
accordance with paragraph (4)(a) for at least 10 years.

96.12.41B.8

For the purpose of paragraph (4)(a), a person’s “electoral number” is the
number—

96.12.41B.8.a

allocated to the person as stated in the copy of the register of electors, or

96.12.41B.8.b

where an entry relating to the person is added to the register in pursuance of
a notice issued under section 13B(3B) or (3D) of the 1983 Act, as stated in
the copy of that notice.

96.12.41B.9

Except as provided by paragraph (10), a disclosure of information under this
rule does not breach—

96.12.41B.9.a

any obligation of confidence owed by the presiding officer, the returning
officer or a registration officer, or

96.12.41B.9.b

any other restriction on the disclosure of information (however imposed).

96.12.41B.10

Nothing in this rule authorises the making of a disclosure that contravenes
the data protection legislation (but in determining whether a disclosure would
do so, the duties imposed by paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be taken into
account).

96.12.41B.11

In this rule—

96.12.41B.11.a

“ the data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018;

96.12.41B.11.b

references to the relevant registration officer are to the registration
officer of the constituent council in relation to whose area the returning
officer exercises functions under this Order.

.

96.13

In rule 45 (procedure on close of poll), in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph
(d) insert—

96.13.da

the ballot paper refusal list completed in accordance with rule 41A,

.

96.14

In rule 61 (sealing up of ballot papers), in paragraph (2) after sub-paragraph
(b) insert—

96.14.ba

the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

96.15

In rule 62 (delivery and retention of documents), after paragraph (c) insert—

96.15.ca

the packet containing the completed ballot paper refusal list,

.

96.16

In rule 63 (orders for production of documents), after paragraph (1) insert—

96.16.1A

An order—

96.16.1A.a

for the opening of the sealed packet containing a completed ballot paper
refusal list, or

96.16.1A.b

for the inspection or production of that list,

may be made by the county court if satisfied by evidence on oath that the
order is required for the purpose of an election petition.

.

96.17

In Part 9 (appendix of forms)—

96.17.a

in the list of forms, after the entry “Form 11: Official proxy postal poll
card” insert  “Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list” ;

96.17.b

for Form 8 (official poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of
Schedule 13;

96.17.c

for Form 10 (official proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in
Part 2 of Schedule 13;

96.17.d

after Form 11 (official proxy postal poll card) insert new Form 11A (ballot
paper refusal list) as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 13;

96.17.e

for Form 12 (directions for the guidance of voters) substitute the
corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 13.

#### Amendment of the Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021

97

97.1

The Police and Crime Commissioner Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2021  is
amended as follows.

97.2

In article 5 (Welsh and English versions of forms), in Table 3, after the
entry for Form 14 (official postal proxy poll card) insert—

      Form 14A (ballot paper refusal list) Referred to in rule 29(4A) of, and
set out in Part 8 of, the PCC elections rules

.

97.3

In Schedule 1 (Welsh versions of forms of words), for Part 2 substitute the
new Part 2 as set out in Part 1 of Schedule 14.

97.4

In Schedule 3 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms)—

97.4.a

for Form 1 (proxy paper at particular PCC election), substitute the
corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 14;

97.4.b

for Form 11 (poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of
Schedule 14;

97.4.c

for Form 13 (proxy poll card) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of
Schedule 14;

97.4.d

after Form 14 (proxy postal poll card) insert new Form 14A (ballot paper
refusal list) as set out in Part 2 of Schedule 14;

97.4.e

for Form 16 (Notice for guidance of voters for exhibition inside and outside
polling station) substitute the corresponding form in Part 2 of Schedule 14.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Scott of Bybrook   Parliamentary Under Secretary of
State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     22nd December
2022

  Enabling Powers

  These Regulations are made under the following powers—     a     the
following provisions of the Representation of the People Act 1983—     i
sections 9B(1A), 13BD(3), (4), (8), (9), (10) and (11), 13BE(3), (4), (8),
(9), (10), (11) and (12), 53(1)(ba) and (4), 56(1) and (5) (including that
section as applied in relation to Scotland by section 57(1)) and 201(3) ;
ii     in Schedule 1, rule 28(3), 29(3ZA), 40B(1), (2) and (5)(b) and 56A(1),
(2) and (3) (including that rule as modified by rule 58(2)(ba)) ;         iii
in Schedule 2, paragraphs 1(2), (2A) and (4), 1A(1), (2) and (3), 3ZA(1),
(2)(a), (2A) and (3A), 8BA(1), (3) and (4), 8C, 10B(1)(a), 11(3) and 13(1) and
(1ZB) ;             b     section 15(5) of the Representation of the People
Act 1985;         c     paragraph 16 of Schedule 4B to the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 (including as applied by section 38A(3) of the Planning and
Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 );         d     sections 52ZQ and 113(1) and (2)
of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 ;         e     paragraphs 4(2)(c)
and 6(7) and (8) of Schedule 4 to the Representation of the People Act 2000 ;
f     sections 9HE(1), 9MG(2) to (5) and 105(2) and (3) of the Local
Government Act 2000;         g     sections 114(1) and 117(1A) of, and
paragraph 12 of Schedule 5B to, the Local Democracy, Economic Development and
Construction Act 2009 ;         h     section 58(1) (including as extended by
section 26(3) of the Welsh Language Act 1993) and 154(5) of the Police Reform
and Social Responsibility Act 2011 ;         i     section 18(1) of the Recall
of MPs Act 2015.

  Identity document applications: photograph requirements

Regulation 4(3)(a)

1

A photograph included in an identity document application (“the photograph”)
must meet the following requirements.

2

The photograph must be a close-up photograph of the head and shoulders of the
applicant.

3

3.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the photograph must show the full head of the
applicant (without any other person visible or any covering, unless it is worn
for religious beliefs or medical reasons)—

3.1.a

facing forward,

3.1.b

with nothing covering the face,

3.1.c

looking straight at the camera,

3.1.d

with a plain facial expression, and

3.1.e

with eyes open and clearly visible (e.g. without sunglasses and not obscured
with hair etc.).

3.2

The requirements in paragraph (1)(d) and (e) do not apply where the applicant
is unable to provide a photograph which complies with either or both of those
requirements (as the case may be) due to any disability.

4

The photograph must be in colour and taken against a plain, light background.

5

The photograph must be—

5.a

in sharp focus and clear,

5.b

free from “redeye”, shadows which obscure the face, or reflection,

5.c

undamaged, and

5.d

a true likeness of the applicant, without amendment or manipulation.

6

For an application made other than via the digital service, the photograph
must be—

6.a

at least 45 millimetres in height and at least 35 millimetres in width, and

6.b

no more than 297 millimetres in height and no larger than 210 millimetres in
width.

7

For an application made via the digital service, the photograph must be—

7.a

at least 750 pixels in height and at least 600 pixels in width, and

7.b

contained in an electronic file which is no more than 20MB in size.

  Requirements for the design of anonymous elector’s documents, electoral
identity documents, and temporary electoral identity documents

Regulation 15(2)

##### Requirements for the design of the anonymous elector’s document

1

1.1

The anonymous elector’s document must be 297 millimetres in height and 210
millimetres in width.

1.2

The design of the anonymous elector’s document must include—

1.2.a

each of the following, all on the front side of the document—

1.2.a.i

space for the electoral number of the anonymous elector it is issued to;

1.2.a.ii

space for a photograph of the anonymous elector it is issued to;

1.2.a.iii

space for the date of issue of the document;

1.2.a.iv

space for the appropriate identifier allocated to the document by the
registration officer in accordance with regulation  16(1)(e) ;

1.2.a.v

one or more security features recommended by the Home Secretary;

1.2.b

for the design of the dual Welsh and English version of the anonymous
elector’s document in accordance with regulation  15(1)(d) , the Welsh
equivalent of any text shown in English.

##### Requirements for the design of the electoral identity document

2

2.1

The electoral identity document must be 297 millimetres in height and 210
millimetres in width.

2.2

The design of the electoral identity document must include—

2.2.a

each of the following, all on the front side of the document—

2.2.a.i

space for the full name of the elector it is issued to;

2.2.a.ii

space for a photograph of the elector it is issued to;

2.2.a.iii

space for the date of issue of the document;

2.2.a.iv

space for the appropriate identifier allocated to the document by the
registration officer in accordance with regulation  16(1)(e) ;

2.2.a.v

the words “Issued by the electoral registration officer appointed by” and
space for the name of the local authority added to the document by the
registration officer in accordance with regulation  16(1)(f)(i) ;

2.2.a.vi

space for the recommended renewal date for the document to be added to the
document by the registration officer in accordance with regulation
16(1)(f)(ii) ;

2.2.a.vii

one or more security features recommended by the Home Secretary;

2.2.b

for the design of the dual Welsh and English version of the electoral identity
document in accordance with regulation  15(1)(d) , the Welsh equivalent of any
text shown in English.

##### Requirements for the design of the temporary electoral identity document

3

3.1

The temporary electoral identity document must be 297 millimetres in height
and 210 millimetres in width.

3.2

The design of the temporary electoral identity document must include—

3.2.a

each of the following, all on the front side of the document—

3.2.a.i

space for the full name of the elector it is issued to;

3.2.a.ii

space for a photograph of the elector it is issued to;

3.2.a.iii

space for the date of issue of the document;

3.2.a.iv

space for the appropriate identifier allocated to the document by the
registration officer in accordance with regulation  19(2)(b)(iv) ;

3.2.a.v

the words “Issued by the electoral registration officer appointed by” and
space for the name of the local authority added to the document by the
registration officer in accordance with regulation  19(2)(b)(iii) ;

3.2.a.vi

space for the date on which the document is valid for use at a poll;

3.2.a.vii

space for a registration officer’s signature;

3.2.b

for the design of the dual Welsh and English version of the temporary
electoral identity document in accordance with regulation  15(1)(d) , the
Welsh equivalent of any text shown in English.

  Prescribed form of ballot paper refusal list at parliamentary elections

Regulation 31



  Representation of the People (Combination of Polls) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2004: New Form of directions for the guidance of voters

Regulation 37(d)

  Form of directions for the guidance of the voters in voting

  New forms of official poll cards and official proxy poll cards at
parliamentary elections

Regulations 38(11) and 39(11)

##### New forms for the Representation of the People (England and Wales) Regulations 2001

  Form A: Official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form B: Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

##### New forms for the Representation of the People (Scotland) Regulations 2001

  Form A: Official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form B: Official proxy poll card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in
person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Local Authorities (Mayoral Elections) (England and Wales) Regulations 2007:
New forms

Regulations 43(16) and 45(16)

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election in England where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 8A: Elector’s official poll card (for use at mayoral elections in
England)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10A: Official proxy poll card (for use at mayoral elections in England)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 12A: Directions for the guidance of voters (for use at mayoral
elections in England)

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election in England where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 8A: Elector’s official poll card (for use at mayoral elections in
England)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10A: Official proxy poll card (for use at mayoral elections in England)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 12A: Directions for the guidance of voters (for use at mayoral
elections in England)

  Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (England) Regulations 2012: New
forms

Regulations 48(17) and 50(17)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum

  Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Ballot paper refusal list

  Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in voting

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum

  Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Ballot paper refusal list

  Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in voting

  Local Authorities (Conduct of Referendums) (Council Tax Increases) (England)
Regulations 2012: New forms

Regulations 52(17) and 54(17)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum

  Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Ballot paper refusal list

  Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in voting

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum

  Official Poll Card (to be sent to a voter voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Official Proxy Poll Card (to be sent to an appointed proxy voting in person)

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Ballot paper refusal list

  Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in voting

  Police and Crime Commissioner Elections Order 2012: New forms

Regulations 59(3) and 60(15)

##### New proxy paper form

    Front of form

    Rear of form

##### Forms for use at a PCC election

  Form 11: Official poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 13: Official proxy poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 14A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 16: Notice for guidance of voters for exhibition inside and outside
polling station

  Neighbourhood Planning (Referendums) Regulations 2012: New forms

Regulations 64(17) and 66(17)

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 7: Official poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 9: Official proxy poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 11: Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting

##### Forms for use at a referendum where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 8: Official poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10: Official proxy poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 12: Form of directions for the guidance of the voters and proxies in
voting

  Recall of MPs Act 2015 (Recall Petition) Regulations 2016: New forms

Regulation 92(a)

  Form D: Official petition notice for an elector who may sign the petition in
person

    Page 1

    Page 2

    Page 3

    Page 4

  Form F: Official petition notice for a proxy who may sign the petition in
person

    Page 1

    Page 2

    Page 3

    Page 4

    Page 5

  Form G1: Signing sheet refusal list

  Form H: Guidance for person signing the petition

  Form J: Proxy paper

  Combined Authorities (Mayoral Elections) Order 2017: New forms

Regulations 94(17) and 96(17)

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election where the poll is not taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 8: Official poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10: Official proxy poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 12: Directions for the guidance of voters in voting

##### Forms for use at a mayoral election where the poll is taken together with another election or referendum

  Form 8: Official poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 10: Official proxy poll card

    Front of form

    Rear of form

  Form 11A: Ballot paper refusal list

  Form 12: Directions for the guidance of voters in voting

  Police and Crime Commissioner Elections: Welsh form of words and Welsh and
English forms

Regulation 97(3) and (4)

##### New Part 2 of Schedule 1 (Welsh versions of forms of words)

####### Welsh version of questions to be put to voters

      Person sy’n gwneud cais am bapur pleidleisio Cwestiynau   1 Person sy’n
gwneud cais fel etholwr     (za) Beth yw’ch enw?       (zb) Beth yw’ch
cyfeiriad?       (a) Ai chi yw’r person sydd wedi’i gofrestru ar y gofrestr
etholwyr fel a ganlyn (  rhaid i chi ddarllen yn uchel y cofnod cyfan o’r
gofrestr )? [R]       (b) A ydych eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn
ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, ac
eithrio fel dirprwy i rywun arall? [R]     2 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel
dirprwy     (za) Beth yw’ch enw?       (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad?       (a) Ai
chi yw’r person y mae ei enw yn ymddangos fel A B ar y rhestr dirprwyon ar
gyfer yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a throseddu fel y person
sydd â hawl i bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran   C D ? [R]       (b) A ydych
eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, naill ai yma neu rywle arall, fel y person sydd â hawl i
bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran   C D ? [R]       (c) Ai chi yw gŵr/gwraig,
partner sifil, rhiant, tad-cu/mam-gu, brawd/chwaer, plentyn neu ŵyr/wyres   C
D ? [R]     3 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy ar gyfer etholwr â chofnod
dienw (yn hytrach na’r cwestiynau yng nghofnod 2)     (za) Beth yw’ch enw?
(zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad?       (a) Ai chi yw’r person y mae hawl ganddo
bleidleisio fel dirprwy ar ran yr etholwr sydd â’r rhif (  darllenwch yn uchel
rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr etholwyr? [R]       (b) A ydych
eisoes wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, yma neu rywle arall, fel dirprwy ar ran yr etholwr sydd â’r rhif (
darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr etholwyr? [R]
(c) A ydych yn ŵr/gwraig, yn bartner sifil, yn rhiant, yn dad-cu/mam-gu, yn
frawd/chwaer, yn blentyn neu’n ŵyr/wyres i’r etholwr sydd â’r rhif (
darllenwch yn uchel rif yr etholwr o’r gofrestr ) ar y gofrestr etholwyr? [R]
4 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel dirprwy os na roddir ateb cadarnhaol i’r
cwestiwn yng nghofnod 2(c) neu 3(c) (os ydynt yn berthnasol) A ydych eisoes
wedi pleidleisio yn yr etholiad hwn ar gyfer comisiynydd yr heddlu a
throseddu, yma neu rywle arall, ar ran dau berson nad ydych yn ŵr/gwraig, yn
bartner sifil, yn rhiant, yn dad-cu/mam-gu, yn frawd/chwaer, yn blentyn neu’n
ŵyr/wyres iddynt? [R] 5 Person sy’n gwneud cais fel etholwr y mae cofnod
ganddo ar y rhestr pleidleiswyr post     (za) Beth yw’ch enw?       (zb) Beth
yw’ch cyfeiriad?       (a) A wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio drwy’r post?
(b) Pam nad ydych wedi pleidleisio drwy’r post?     6 Person sy’n gwneud cais
fel dirprwy y mae cofnod ganddo ar y rhestr dirprwyon sy’n pleidleisio drwy’r
post     (za) Beth yw’ch enw?       (zb) Beth yw’ch cyfeiriad?       (a) A
wnaethoch gais i bleidleisio drwy’r post fel dirprwy?       (b) Pam nad ydych
wedi pleidleisio drwy’r post fel dirprwy?

##### New Welsh and English Forms

  Form/Ffurflen 1: Proxy paper at particular PCC election/Papur pleidleisio
drwy ddirprwy mewn etholiad penodol ar gyfer Comisiynydd yr Heddlu a Throseddu

    Page/Tudalen 1

    Page/Tudalen 2

    Page/Tudalen 3

  Form/Ffurflen 11: Poll Card/Cerdyn pleidleisio

    Page/Tudalen 1

    Page/Tudalen 2

  Form/Ffurflen 13: Proxy poll card/Cerdyn pleisdleisio dirprwy

    Page/Tudalen 1

    Page/Tudalen 2

  Form/Ffurflen 14A: Ballot paper refusal list/Rhestr o Achosion o Wrthod Rhoi
Papur Pleidleisio

    Page/Tudalen 1

    Page/Tudalen 2

  Form/Flurflen 16: Notice for guidance of voters for exhibition inside and
outside polling station/Hysbysiad canllaw i bleidleiswyr i’w arddangos y tu
mewn a’r tu allan i’r orsaf bleidleisio

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision related to the requirement for voters to
present photographic identification when voting at polling stations at UK
Parliamentary elections in Great Britain. These Regulations also create a
similar requirement for persons voting at polling stations at Police and Crime
Commissioner elections in England and Wales, and local government elections
and referendums in England, and a similar requirement for persons signing a
recall petition held in Great Britain under the Recall of MPs Act  2015 (c.
25)  when signing the petition at a petition signing place.

  Part 2 makes provision as to the content of applications for electoral
identity documents made under section 13BD of the Representation of the People
Act  1983 (c. 2)  (“ the 1983 Act ”) and of applications for anonymous
elector’s documents under section 13BE of the 1983 Act (together “identity
document applications”). Part 2 also makes provision as to the manner in which
identity document applications can be made, and as to the verification of
information provided in an identity document application by the registration
officer using information or evidence from other sources.

  Part 3 makes provision as to the determination of these applications,
including the circumstances in which determination must be postponed
(regulation  10 ), provision relating to an appeal against a refusal of an
application (regulation  12 ) and the processing of information contained
within or connected to an identity document application following
determination (regulation  14 ).

  Part 4 makes provision related to anonymous elector’s documents, electoral
identity documents and temporary electoral identity documents. Regulation  15
requires the Electoral Commission to create designs of those documents for use
by registration officers. Regulations  16  and  17  relate to the issuing and
delivery or collection of anonymous elector’s documents and electoral identity
documents. Regulations  18  and  19  make provision about issuing temporary
electoral identity documents. Regulation  20  sets out the requirements of the
record of anonymous elector’s documents and electoral identity documents to be
kept by registration officers, and regulations  21  to  23  contain
restrictions upon the supply, disclosure or use of information from that
record. Regulation  24  creates a criminal offence for failure to comply with
those restrictions.

  Part 5 makes further provision in relation to anonymous elector’s documents.
Regulations  25  and  26  require registration officers to issue reminders to
electors with anonymous entries on a register of parliamentary electors in
Great Britain or a register of local government electors in England or Wales
regarding the need for an anonymous elector’s document in order to vote in
person or sign a recall petition signing sheet in person. Regulations  27  to
30  make provision about the replacement of anonymous elector’s documents by
registration officers in certain circumstances.

  Part 6 prescribes the form of the ballot paper refusal list for UK
parliamentary elections (regulation  31 ), and the circumstances in which a
ballot paper refusal list completed in relation to an election or a signing
sheet refusal list completed in relation to a recall petition can be inspected
and information recorded in that list disclosed (regulation  32 ).

  Part 7 makes provision about the collection and collation of information
relating to certain elections which is to be used by the Secretary of State
for the preparation of reports on voter identification requirements in
pursuance of section 59A of the 1983 Act.

  Part 8 makes amendments to Part 6 of the Representation of the People
(Scotland) Regulations 1986 ( S.I. 1986/1111 ) and Schedule 2 to the
Representation of the People (Combination of Polls) (England and Wales)
Regulations 2004 ( S.I. 2004/294 ), which modify the parliamentary elections
rules set out in Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act where the poll for a UK
parliamentary election is combined with one or more other polls in England and
Wales and Scotland respectively.

  Part 9 makes amendments to the Representation of the People (England and
Wales) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/341 ) and the Representation of the People
(Scotland) Regulations 2001 ( S.I. 2001/497 ), including amendments providing
for emergency applications to be made by voters to vote by proxy on grounds
relating to voter identification.

  Part 10 amends various instruments to make equivalent amendments to
election, referendum and recall petition rules to those made to the UK
parliamentary election rules in Schedule 1 to the 1983 Act by Schedule 1 to
the Elections Act  2022 (c. 37) , and, in relation to Police and Crime
Commissioner elections and recall petitions, equivalent amendments to those
made by Part 9 of these Regulations providing for emergency proxy applications
to be made on grounds relating to voter identification.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business and the voluntary sector and community bodies is available
from the Department of Levelling Up, Housing and Communities at 2 Marsham
Street, London, SW1P 4DF and published with the Explanatory Memorandum
alongside this instrument on www.legislation.gov.uk.

