Title: The Building (Scotland) Amendment (No. 2) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-06-06
Description: These Regulations amend the Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004 (the “2004 Regulations”) and come into force on 3 April 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/349

## The Building (Scotland) Amendment (No. 2) Regulations 2022

Building And Buildings

Made 22nd November 2022

Laid before the Scottish Parliament 24th November 2022

Coming into force 3rd April 2023

The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 1 and 54(2) and schedule 1 of the Building
(Scotland) Act 2003 , and all other powers enabling them to do so. In
accordance with section 1(2) of that Act they have consulted with such persons
as appear to them to be representative of the interests concerned.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building (Scotland) Amendment (No. 2)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on   5 June   2023.

### Amendment of the Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004

2

Subject to regulation 5, the Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004  are amended
in accordance with regulations 3 and 4.

### Amendment of schedule 5 – building standards applicable to design and construction

3

In schedule 5 (building standards applicable to design and construction),
after paragraph 7.1 (statement of sustainability) insert—

####### Electric vehicle charging

3.7.2

Every building must be designed and constructed in such a way that provision
for the charging of electric vehicles is made where car parking spaces are
located within the building or the curtilage of the building.

####### Limitation

This standard does not apply to— a a non-domestic building where ten or fewer
car parking spaces are present within the building or the curtilage of the
building, b alteration to, or extension of a building, other than major
renovation works.

####### Interpretation of this standard

In this standard— “ building envelope ” in relation to a building, means the
walls, floor, roof, windows, doors, roof windows and roof-lights, “ major
renovation works ” means works for the renovation of a building where ten or
more car parking spaces are present within the building or the curtilage of
the building and where— more than 25% of the surface area of the building
envelope undergoes renovation, and the works include works to— car parking
spaces, or the electrical infrastructure of the building or of the car parking
spaces.

.

### Amendment of schedule 6 – building standards applicable to conversions

4

In schedule 6 (building standards applicable to conversions) after paragraph 2
insert—

4.2A

Every conversion, to which these regulations apply, which—

4.2A.a

alters the number dwellings, or the number of building units, in the building,

4.2A.b

changes the occupation or use of—

4.2A.b.i

a residential building to any other type of building, or

4.2A.b.ii

a building so that it becomes a residential building,

must meet the requirements of standard 7.2 (electric vehicle charging) in
section 7, sustainability, of schedule 5.

####### Interpretation

In this paragraph “ building unit ” means a part of a building which is
designed or altered to be used separately.

.

### Transitional provision

5

The amendments made by these Regulations do not apply to work which, by virtue
of regulation 5 and schedule 3 of the Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004,
does not require a building warrant provided that the work is—

5.a

completed before   5 June  2023, or

5.b

not completed before that date and—

5.b.i

the contract for the work is entered into before   5 June  2023, and

5.b.ii

the work is completed on or before   1 September   2023.

JENNY GILRUTH Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers St Andrew’s House,
Edinburgh 22nd November 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Building (Scotland) Regulations 2004 (the “ 2004
Regulations ”) and come into force on 3 April 2023.

Regulation 3 amends schedule 5 to introduce a mandatory standard for electric
vehicle charging facilities. Regulation 4 amends schedule 6 to apply the new
standard to conversions in certain circumstances. Regulation 5 makes
transitional provision the effect of which is that the amended 2004
Regulations will not apply to work which does not require a building warrant
and which is completed before 3 April 2023 or work which is not completed
before that date where the contract for the work is entered into before that
date and the work is completed before 1 July 2023.

