Title: The Gas (Designation of Pipe-lines) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-01-30
Description: Article 8(1) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (“the Gas Order”) authorises the holder of a licence issued under sub-paragraph (a) to participate in the conveyance of gas from one place to another.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/248

## The Gas (Designation of Pipe-lines) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Gas

  Made   12th October 2022

  Coming into operation   2nd November 2022

      The Department for the Economy , in exercise of the powers conferred on
it by Article 59(1), (2) and (5) of the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003 ,
makes the following Order.           The Department has consulted with the
Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation in accordance with Article
59(1) of the Energy Order and has given notice in accordance with Article
59(4) of that Order and has considered any representations or objections which
are duly made and not withdrawn.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Gas (Designation of Pipe-lines) Order (Northern
Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 2nd November 2022.

1.2

In this Order —

      “ assigned ” has the same meaning as in Article 12 of the Gas Order;
“ the Energy Order ” means the Energy (Northern Ireland) Order 2003;
“ the Gas Order ” means the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ; and
“ the Insolvency Order ” means the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989

### Designated pipe-line

2

The pipe-line specified in column (1) of the Schedule, being a high pressure
pipe-line, is hereby designated as a pipe-line to which Article 60 of the
Energy Order applies for the period beginning on and including the date of
commencement of this Order and ending on the date specified opposite thereto
in column (2) of the Schedule.

### Cessation of designation

3

3.1

This Order shall, subject to paragraph (2), cease to have effect where—

3.1.a

the licence granted under Article 8(1)(a) of the Gas Order authorising the
holder to convey gas through the pipe-line designated by Article 2 is assigned
or revoked; or

3.1.b

there is an insolvency event in relation to the holder.

3.2

This Order shall not cease to have effect by virtue of paragraph (1)(a) where
a licence granted under Article 8(1)(a) of the Gas Order authorising the
holder to convey gas through the pipe-line is assigned or revoked but is
immediately replaced by a further such licence granted to the same holder so
as to preserve the continuity of the authorisation of that holder to convey
gas through the pipe-line, or when an Energy Administration Order as defined
in section 17 of the Energy Act (Northern Ireland) 2011  is in force.

3.3

For the purpose of paragraph (1)(b) an “insolvency event” occurs in relation
to the licence holder referred to in that sub-paragraph if it:—

3.3.a

is deemed unable to pay its debts (within the meaning of Article 103(1) or (2)
of the Insolvency Order) or if any voluntary arrangement is proposed in
relation to it under Article 14 of the Insolvency Order;

3.3.b

has a receiver (which expression shall include an administrative receiver
within the meaning of Article 5(1) of the Insolvency Order) of the whole or
any material part of its assets or undertaking appointed;

3.3.c

has an administration order under Article 21 of the Insolvency Order made in
relation to it;

3.3.d

has any resolution for winding up passed in relation to it; or

3.3.e

becomes subject to an order for winding up by a court of competent
jurisdiction.

3.4

In paragraph (3)(a) the reference to Article 103(1) of the Insolvency Order
shall be construed as a reference to that provision as if in sub-paragraph (a)
for “£750” there was substituted  “£250,000” .

3.5

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(a), a licence holder shall not be deemed to
be unable to pay its debts if any such demand as is mentioned in Article
103(1)(a) of the Insolvency Order, is being contested in good faith by that
holder with recourse to all appropriate measures and procedures.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for the Economy on 12 th
October 2022.         Peter Russell   A senior officer of the   Department for
the Economy

      Description of the pipe-line Date designation ending   The pipe-line
known as the Kilroot Transmission Pipe-line which runs for 3 kilometres, from
(and including) the Offtake Connection on the Belfast Gas Transmission Pipe-
line at Marshallstown to (and including) the Pipe-line Inspection Gauge
reception facility at Kilroot. 31  st  December 2051

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  Article 8(1) of the Gas (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 (“ the Gas Order ”)
authorises the holder of a licence issued under sub-paragraph (a) to
participate in the conveyance of gas from one place to another.

  Such licences are subject to standard conditions. There may also be
conditions attaching to a particular licence. Article 60(1) of the Energy
(Northern Ireland) Order 2003 provides for the Department for the Economy,
after consultation with the Northern Ireland Authority for Utility Regulation,
or that Authority with the consent of the Department, to modify the conditions
of a particular licence, or the standard conditions where it considers it
necessary or expedient to do so, for the purpose of implementing or
facilitating the operation of arrangements designed to secure that prices
charged in connection with the conveyance of gas through certain designated
pipe-lines are in accordance with a common tariff which does not distinguish
(whether directly or indirectly) between different parts of Northern Ireland
or the extent of use of any such pipe-lines.

  Article 2 and the Schedule to this Order designates a pipe-line to which
this power of modification applies.

  The pipe-line in the Schedule is designated from the date of coming into
operation of the Order until the date specified opposite the reference to the
pipe-line in the Schedule. However, the Order specifies certain events on the
happening of which the Order will cease to have effect. These events are set
out in Article 3.

