Title: The Education (Eligibility for Student Support) (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-02-24
Description: These Regulations amend the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014 (“the 2014 Regulations”) and the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“the 2018 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/49

## The Education (Eligibility for Student Support) (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2022

  This Statutory Instrument has been printed to correct errors in  S.I.
2021/1294 (W. 328)  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients
of that Statutory Instrument.

    Education, Wales

  Made   17 January 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   19 January 2022

  Coming into force   11 February 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on the
Secretary of State under sections 22(1)(a), 22(2)(a) and 42(6) of the Teaching
and Higher Education Act 1998 , and now exercisable by them , make the
following Regulations:

### Title, commencement and application

1

The title of these Regulations is the Education (Eligibility for Student
Support) (Amendment) (Wales) Regulations 2022.

2

These Regulations come into force on 11 February 2022.

3

Regulations 4 to 6 apply in relation to the provision of support to a student
in relation to an academic year which begins on or after 1 September 2022,
whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on or
after that date.

### Amendments to the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014

4

The Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014  are
amended in accordance with regulations 5 and 6.

5

In regulation 3, in the definition of “person granted leave to remain as a
protected partner” in paragraph (a) of that definition for “paragraph 289B”
substitute  “paragraphs 289B and 289D” .

6

In Schedule 1, for paragraph 9B substitute—

6.9B

6.9B.1

A person—

6.9B.1.a

who on the relevant date is—

6.9B.1.a.i

a United Kingdom national; or

6.9B.1.a.ii

a family member of a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (i);

6.9B.1.b

who was ordinarily resident immediately before IP completion day—

6.9B.1.b.i

in the territory comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland; or

6.9B.1.b.ii

in the United Kingdom, where that ordinary residence began after 31 December
2017 immediately following a period of ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the European Economic Area and Switzerland,

and has remained ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
period beginning on IP completion day and ending immediately before the
relevant date;

6.9B.1.c

who is ordinarily resident in Wales on the relevant date;

6.9B.1.d

who has been ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United
Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland throughout the
three-year period preceding the relevant date; and

6.9B.1.e

subject to sub-paragraph (2), whose ordinary residence in the territory
comprising the United Kingdom, Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and
Switzerland has not during any part of the period referred to in paragraph (d)
been wholly or mainly for the purpose of receiving full-time education.

6.9B.2

Paragraph (e) of sub-paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who is treated
as being ordinarily resident in the territory comprising the United Kingdom,
Gibraltar, the European Economic Area and Switzerland in accordance with
paragraph 1(7).

6.9B.3

Where a person (“ P ”) falls within sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii), the person in
relation to whom P is a family member must also meet the requirements of sub-
paragraph (1)(b) and (d).

### Amendment to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018

7

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with regulation 8.

8

In exception 2 in each of regulations 44(1), 54, 62(2) and 69(2), after
“6A(1),” insert  “6BA,” .

Jeremy Miles Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the Welsh
Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Education (European University Institute) (Wales)
Regulations 2014 (“ the 2014 Regulations ”) and the Education (Student
Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (“ the 2018 Regulations ”).

The amendments made by these Regulations correct errors in the 2014
Regulations and make further provision in the 2018 Regulations about the
eligibility of certain Irish citizens to receive student support.

The Welsh Ministers’ Regulatory Impact Assessment Code for Subordinate
Legislation has been considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result,
it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as
to the likely costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations.

