Title: The Social Fund (Budgeting Loans) (Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations replace the Social Fund (Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (“the 2008 Regulations”) (S.R. 2008 No. 357), which are revoked, and reflect the fact that budgeting loans are the only remaining element of social fund payments made under section 134(1)(b) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/222

## The Social Fund (Budgeting Loans) (Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Social Security

  Made   21st September 2022

  Coming into operation   12th October 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 10 and 165(1), (4), (5) and (6)
of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , and now
vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Fund (Budgeting Loans)
(Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2022 and shall come into operation on 12th October 2022.

1.2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992 ;           “ applicant ” means the person by or
on behalf of whom the application for a budgeting loan is made; and
“ budgeting loan ” means a payment by way of a budgeting loan under section
134(1)(b) of the Act.

### Form and manner in which an application is to be made

2

An application for a budgeting loan must be made in writing—

2.a

on a form approved by the Department and completed in accordance with the
instructions on that form; or

2.b

in such other manner as the Department may accept as sufficient in any
particular case.

### Written applications

3

3.1

Application forms for budgeting loans approved by the Department for the
purposes of regulation 2(a) are to be supplied, without charge, by persons
appointed or authorised for that purpose by the Department.

3.2

Every application must be delivered or sent to an office of the Department.

3.3

Where the applicant has not provided sufficient particulars to enable any
material question to be determined, the Department may request the applicant
to provide (in writing, by attendance at an office of the Department or by
other reasonable means) such further particulars as may reasonably be required
to determine the application.

3.4

Where an approved application form has been submitted and it appears to the
Department that the application form has not been completed in accordance with
the instructions given on the form, the Department may return the form to the
applicant and require proper completion.

### Consent where application is made on behalf of someone else

4

4.1

Where an application for a budgeting loan is to be made on behalf of one
person (“ A ”) by another person (“ B ”), B must not make such an application
unless—

4.1.a

A has given consent to the application being made on A’s behalf; or

4.1.b

B is a person appointed by the Department under regulation 33(1) of the Social
Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  to act on
A’s behalf.

4.2

Consent must be in writing.

### Time at which an application is to be treated as made

5

An application for a budgeting loan is to be treated as made on the date on
which the application is first received in an office of the Department.

### Conditions to be satisfied before payment of a budgeting loan

6

6.1

Before an award of a budgeting loan is paid the applicant must provide
satisfactory evidence of the applicant’s identity.

6.2

Before an award of a budgeting loan is paid the applicant must inform the
Department that the applicant agrees to the terms and conditions notified to
the applicant in accordance with section 135(4) of the Act.

6.3

The applicant must inform the Department of the applicant’s agreement under
paragraph (2) within 14 days beginning with the date on which the Department
notified the applicant of the terms and conditions in accordance with section
135(4) of the Act.

6.4

The Department may extend the time specified in paragraph (3) where the
Department is satisfied that special reasons apply, even if it has already
expired.

### Circumstances in which an award is to be extinguished

7

An award of a budgeting loan becomes extinguished where—

7.a

the applicant fails to satisfy the condition in paragraph (2) of regulation 6
within the time referred to in paragraph (3) or (4) of that regulation; or

7.b

in a case where the Department has issued an instrument of payment in respect
of the award, that instrument is not presented for payment within the period
of 12 months beginning with the date of its issue.

### Revocations

8

The following Regulations are revoked—

8.a

the Social Fund (Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2008 ; and

8.b

the Social Fund (Applications and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 21st
September 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations replace the Social Fund (Applications and Miscellaneous
Provisions) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (“ the 2008 Regulations ”) (
S.R. 2008 No. 357 ), which are revoked, and reflect the fact that budgeting
loans are the only remaining element of social fund payments made under
section 134(1)(b) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992.

  Regulations 2 and 3 set out the manner and form in which applications are to
be made for payments by way of budgeting loan out of the social fund.

  Regulation 4 provides for consent to be given where someone else is making
the application on the applicant’s behalf.

  Regulation 5 sets out when an application for a budgeting loan is treated as
having been made.

  Regulation 6 specifies conditions which must be satisfied before payments of
budgeting loans are made. A change from the 2008 Regulations is that agreement
to the repayment terms and conditions does not need to be in writing.

  Regulation 7 specifies the circumstances in which an award of a budgeting
loan becomes extinguished.

  Regulation 8 revokes the 2008 Regulations and the Social Fund (Applications
and Miscellaneous Provisions) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2009
( S.R. 2009 No. 392 ) which amended the 2008 Regulations.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland only provision
corresponding to provision in Regulations made by the Secretary of State for
Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by virtue of
section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social Security
Administration (Northern Ireland) Act 1992, are not subject to the requirement
of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the Social Security
Advisory Committee.

