Title: The Housing Benefit and Universal Credit (Victims of Domestic Abuse and Victims of Modern Slavery) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations amend the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 (S.R. 2006 No. 405) (“the Housing Benefit Regulations”) and the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 (S.R. 2016 No. 216) (“the Universal Credit Regulations”). They extend the scope of the exemptions from the shared accommodation rate for the Local Housing Allowance (“LHA”) (and the Single Room Rent (SRR) in the case of Housing Benefit) to include victims of domestic violence who have attained the age of 16 and victims of modern slavery (“the relevant victims”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/211

## The Housing Benefit and Universal Credit (Victims of Domestic Abuse and Victims of Modern Slavery) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Social Security

  Made   8th September 2022

  Coming into operation   1st October 2022

      The Department for Communities , in exercise of the powers conferred by
sections 122(1)(d), 129A(2), (3) and (4), 171(1) and (3) to (5) of the Social
Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , and now
vested in it , and Articles 16(4), 48(1), (2) and (5), 101(1) and (4)(a) of
the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015  makes the following
Regulations.           The powers are exercisable by the Department for
Communities by virtue of Article 2 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland)
Order 2015 (Cessation of Transitory Provision) Order 2020 .

### Citation, Commencement and Interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Housing Benefit and Universal Credit
(Victims of Domestic Abuse and Victims of Modern Slavery) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come into operation on 1st October
2022.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendments to the Housing Benefit Regulations

2

2.1

The Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  are amended as
follows—

2.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

2.2.a

after the definition of “close relative” insert—

      “ coercive behaviour ” means an act of assault, humiliation or
intimidation or other abuse that is used to harm, punish or frighten the
victim;           “ competent authority ” means a person who is a competent
authority within the meaning of the Trafficking Convention;           “
compulsory labour ”, “ forced labour ”, “ servitude ” and “ slavery ” have the
same meaning as in Article 4 of the Convention for the Protection of Human
Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of Europe at Rome on
4th November 1950 as it has effect for the time being in relation to the
United Kingdom;

;

2.2.b

after the definition of “contributory employment and support allowance”
insert—

      “ controlling behaviour ” means an act designed to make a person
subordinate or dependent by isolating them from sources of support, exploiting
their resources and capacities for personal gain, depriving them of the means
needed for independence, resistance or escape or regulating their everyday
behaviour;

;

2.2.c

after the definition of “disability living allowance” insert—

      “ domestic violence ” means any incident, or pattern of incidents, of
controlling behaviour, coercive behaviour, violence or abuse, including but
not limited to—         psychological abuse;           physical abuse;
sexual abuse;           emotional abuse;           financial abuse,
regardless of the gender or sexuality of the victim;;

;

2.2.d

after “a guaranteed income payment” insert—

      “ health care professional ” means a person who is a member of a
profession regulated by a body mentioned in section 25(3) of the National
Health Service Reform and Health Care Professions Act 2002 ;

;

2.2.e

after the definition of “pension fund holder”  insert—

      “person acting in an official capacity”, where it appears in the
definition of “young individual”, means a health care professional, a police
officer, a registered social worker, the victim’s employer or any public,
voluntary, or charitable body which has had direct contact with the victim in
connection with domestic violence;

;

2.2.f

after the definition of “polygamous marriage” insert—

      “ positive conclusive grounds determination relating to modern slavery ”
means a determination made by a competent authority that an individual is a
victim of trafficking in human beings, slavery, servitude or forced or
compulsory labour;

;

2.2.g

after the definition of “registered housing association”  insert—

      “ registered social worker ” means a person registered as a social
worker in a register maintained by–         Social Work England;
Social Care Wales;           The Scottish Social Services Council; or
the Northern Ireland Social Care Council;

;

2.2.h

in the definition of “relative” at the end insert—

      except where it appears within the definition of “young individual” and
within Regulation A14 where it has the meaning given by Article 2(2) of the
Family Homes and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 ;

;

2.2.i

after the definition of “tax year” insert—

      “ the Trafficking Convention ” means the Council of Europe Convention on
Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (done at Warsaw on 16th May 2005)”;
“ trafficking in human beings ” has the same meaning as in the Trafficking
Convention;

;

2.2.j

in the definition of “young individual” , after paragraph (f) insert—

2.2.j.g

who—

      after attaining the age of 16 had domestic violence inflicted upon or
threatened against them (“the victim”) by their partner or former partner, or
by a relative; and           provides evidence to the relevant authority from
a person acting in an official capacity that demonstrates that—         the
victim’s circumstances are consistent with their having had domestic violence
inflicted upon or threatened against them; and           the victim has
contacted a person acting in an official capacity in relation to such an
incident;

2.2.j.h

who has been the subject of a positive conclusive grounds determination
relating to modern slavery;

.

2.3

Omit regulation 13D (transitional protection-reduction in LHA) .

2.4

In regulation A14(5) (when a maximum rent (social sector) is to be determined)
, omit the definitions of “domestic violence”, “health care professional”,
“registered social worker” and “relative”.

2.5

In regulation 73H(6) (specified accommodation), omit the definitions of
“coercive behaviour”, “controlling behaviour” and “domestic violence”.

### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations

3

3.1

Schedule 4 (housing costs elements for renters) to the Universal Credit
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016  is amended as follows.

3.2

In paragraph 2 (interpretation)—

3.2.a

before “exempt accommodation” insert—

      “ domestic violence ” has the meaning given by regulation 96(5);

;

3.2.b

after “registered housing association” insert—

      “ relative ” has the meaning given by Article 2(2) of the Family Homes
and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland) Order 1998;

.

3.3

In paragraph 28 (renters excepted from shared accommodation)—

3.3.a

in sub-paragraph (1)  for “(5A)” substitute  “(5C)” ;

3.3.b

after sub-paragraph (5A)  insert—

3.3.b.5B

E is under 35 years old and—

3.3.b.5B.a

after attaining the age of 16 had domestic violence inflicted upon or
threatened against them (“the victim”) by their partner or former partner, or
by a relative; and

3.3.b.5B.b

provides evidence from a person acting in an official capacity which
demonstrates that—

3.3.b.5B.b.i

the victim’s circumstances are consistent with their having had domestic
violence inflicted upon or threatened against them; and

3.3.b.5B.b.ii

the victim has contacted a person acting in an official capacity in relation
to such an incident.

3.3.b.5C

E is under 35 years old and has been the subject of a positive conclusive
grounds determination relating to modern slavery.

;

3.3.c

in sub-paragraph (6)—

3.3.c.i

after the definition of ““care home”, “registered charity” and “voluntary
organisation”” insert—

      “ competent authority ” means a person who is a competent authority
within the meaning of the Trafficking Convention;           “ compulsory
labour ”, “ forced labour ”, “ servitude ” and “ slavery ” have the same
meaning as in Article 4 of the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights
and Fundamental Freedoms, agreed by the Council of Europe at Rome on 4th
November 1950 as it has effect for the time being in relation to the United
Kingdom;

;

3.3.c.ii

after the definition of “hostel for homeless people” insert—

      “ person acting in an official capacity ” means a health care
professional (within the meaning given by regulation 96(5)), a police officer,
a registered social worker (within the meaning given by regulation 96(5)), the
victim’s employer, or any public, voluntary, or charitable body which has had
direct contact with the victim in connection with domestic violence;
“ positive conclusive grounds determination relating to modern slavery ” means
a determination made by a competent authority that an individual is a victim
of trafficking in human beings, slavery, servitude or forced or compulsory
labour;           “ the Trafficking Convention ” means the Council of Europe
Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (done at Warsaw on
16th May 2005);           “ trafficking in human beings ” has the same meaning
as in the Trafficking Convention.

.

3.4

In paragraph 35(6)(b)  (under-occupancy deduction)—

3.4.a

for ““domestic violence” and “person acting in an official capacity” have the
meaning given to them in regulation 96(5) of these Regulations;” substitute
““ person acting in an official capacity ” has the meaning given to it in
regulation 96(5) of these Regulations;” ;

3.4.b

omit the definition of “relative”.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 8th
September 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Housing Benefit Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2006 ( S.R. 2006 No. 405 ) (“ the Housing Benefit Regulations ”) and the
Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ( S.R. 2016 No. 216 ) (“
the Universal Credit Regulations ”). They extend the scope of the exemptions
from the shared accommodation rate for the Local Housing Allowance (“ LHA ”)
(and the Single Room Rent (SRR) in the case of Housing Benefit) to include
victims of domestic violence who have attained the age of 16 and victims of
modern slavery (“the relevant victims”).

  Regulation 2 amends the definition of “young individual” in regulation 2 of
the Housing Benefit Regulations to exclude the relevant victims. As the
definition of “young individual” will now exclude the relevant victims, those
victims will fall outside the scope of regulation 14(5), which provides that
in the case of a “young individual” the maximum rent will be the SRR, unless
one of the specified exceptions applies.

  In the same way, regulation 14D (determination of a maximum rent (LHA)),
will also not apply to the relevant victims, as they will fall outside the
definition of “young individual” and therefore outside the scope of regulation
14D(2)(a)(i), which provides that where the claimant is a “young individual”
the one bedroom shared accommodation rate applies, subject to specified
exceptions.

  The meaning of “relative”, as used within the definition of “young
individual”, is also amended so that it has the meaning given by Article 2(2)
of the Family Homes and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland) Order 1998.

  Regulation 3, amends paragraph 28 of Schedule 4 to the Universal Credit
Regulations (renters excepted from shared accommodation) to include the
relevant victims within the list of renters excepted from the shared
accommodation rate. Regulation 3 also amends paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 so that
“relative”, as it appears within paragraphs 28 and 35, has the meaning given
by Article 2(2) of the Family Homes and Domestic Violence (Northern Ireland)
Order 1998.

  These Regulations make in relation to Northern Ireland provision
corresponding to provision contained in Regulations made by the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain and accordingly, by
virtue of Section 149(3) of, and paragraph 10 of Schedule 5 to, the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8) , are not subject
to the requirement of section 149(2) of that Act for prior reference to the
Social Security Advisory Committee.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this rule as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary, or public sector is foreseen.

