Title: The Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-10-08
Description: This Order authorises Thurrock Power Limited to construct, operate and maintain a new gas fired generating station and battery storage facility at Tilbury, Thurrock, Essex and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/157

## The Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   16th February 2022

  Coming into force   10th March 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“the 2008 Act”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) pursuant to Chapter 3 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and the
Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .     The single
appointed person, having considered the representations made and not withdrawn
and the application together with the accompanying documents, in accordance
with section 83(1) of the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation
to the Secretary of State.     The Secretary of State has considered the
representations made and not withdrawn, and the recommendations and report of
the single appointed person, and taken into account the environmental
information in accordance with regulation 4 of the Infrastructure Planning
(Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017  and, as a national policy
statement has effect in relation to the proposed development, has had regard
to the documents and matters referred to in section 104(2)  of the 2008 Act.
The Secretary of State, having decided the application, has determined to make
an Order granting development consent for the development described in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the
application.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that replacement land has
been or will be given in exchange for the special category land specified in
the land plans and special category land plans (as defined in article 2 of
this Order) as “permanent freehold acquisition” land, and the replacement land
(as defined in that article) has been or will be vested in the prospective
seller and subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as attach to the
special category land, and that, accordingly, section 131(4) of the 2008 Act
applies.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that the special category
land specified in the land plans and special category land plans (as defined
in article 2 of this Order) as “acquisition of permanent new rights” land,
when burdened with any new rights authorised to be compulsorily acquired under
this Order, will be no less advantageous than it was before to the persons in
whom it is vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or
other rights, and the public, and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the
2008 Act applies.         The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 114, 115, 120 and schedule 5 to the 2008 Act, makes the
following Order:

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant Development
Consent Order 2022 and comes into force on 10th March 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

    “1961 Act” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;         “1965 Act” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;         “1980 Act” means the Highways Act
1980 ;         “1981 Act” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ;         “1984 Act” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;
“1990 Act” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;         “1991 Act”
means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;         “2008 Act” means the
Planning Act 2008 ;         “address” includes any number or address used for
the purposes of electronic transmission;         “the access, rights of way
and traffic management plans” means the plans certified as such by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 38;
“apparatus” has the same meaning as in section 105(1) of the 1991 Act;
“authorised development” means the development and associated development
described in Schedule 1 (authorised development), which is development within
the meaning of section 32 of the 2008 Act;         “book of reference” means
the document approved in accordance with requirement 30 and certified by the
Secretary of State as the book of reference for the purposes of the Order;
“building” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building,
structure or erection;         “carriageway” has the same meaning as in the
1980 Act;         “commence” means carry out a material operation, as defined
in section 155 of the 2008 Act (which explains when development begins),
comprised in or for the purposes of the authorised development other than the
permitted preliminary works and “commencement”, “commenced” and cognate
expressions are to be construed accordingly;         “completion” means the
date on which the authorised development commences operation by generating
power on a commercial basis, but excluding the generation of power during
commissioning, and “complete” and “completed” and cognate expressions are to
be construed accordingly;         “conceptual drainage strategy” means the
document certified as such by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order;         “design principles statement” means the document certified by
the Secretary of State as the design principles statement for the purposes of
this Order;         “electronic transmission” means a communication
transmitted—       by means of an electronic communications network; or
by other means but while in electronic form;             “environmental
statement” means the documents certified by the Secretary of State as the
environmental statement for the purposes of this Order;         “highway
authority” means Thurrock Borough Council;         “Highways England” means
Highways England Company Limited (company number 09346363), whose registered
office is at Bridge House, Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, GU1 4LZ;         “the
illustrative cross section plans” means the document certified as the
illustrative cross section plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
the Order;         “the illustrative landscape plan” means the document
certified as the illustrative landscape plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order;         “the land plans and special category land
plans” means the document approved under requirement 30 and certified as the
land plans and special category land plans by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order;         “maintain” includes inspect, repair, adjust or
alter the authorised development, and remove, reconstruct or replace any part,
provided that such works do not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects to those identified in the environmental
statement; and any derivative of “maintain” is to be construed accordingly;
“NGET” means National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc (company number
02366977), whose registered office is at 1 to 3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH;
“NGG” means National Grid Gas Plc (company number 02006000), whose registered
offices is at 1 to 3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH;         “Order land” means the
land which is required for the authorised development shown on the land plans
and described in the book of reference;         “Order limits” means the
limits shown on the works plans within which the authorised development may be
carried out;         “outline code of construction practice” means the
document certified as the outline code of construction practice by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order;         “outline
construction traffic management plan” means the document certified as the
outline construction traffic management plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order;         “outline construction worker travel plan” means
the document certified as the outline construction worker travel plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order;         “outline ecological
management plan” means the document certified as the outline ecological
management plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order;
“outline employment and skills strategy” means the document certified as the
outline local employment and skills strategy by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order;         “outline written scheme of archaeological
investigation” means the document certified as the outline written scheme of
archaeological investigation by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order;         “owner” in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section
7 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;         “permitted preliminary works”
means all or any of—       environmental surveys, geotechnical surveys,
intrusive archaeological surveys and other investigations;       above ground
site preparation for temporary facilities for the use of contractors;
the provision of temporary means of enclosure and site security for
construction;       the temporary display of site notices or advertisements;
protected species relocation in accordance with a relevant licence;
infilling of ditches and creation of new ditches; and       site clearance
(including vegetation removal, vegetation management to create or enhance
habitat);             “plot” means the plots listed in the book of reference
and shown on the land plans;         “the port” means       any land
(including land covered by water) within the Port of Tilbury which is owned or
used by Port of Tilbury London Limited for the purposes of its statutory
undertaking; as at the date of the Order;       the Work no. 15 land; and
any land within the limits of deviation of Work nos. 12(a), 12(c), 12(d) and
12(e), and any land comprised in plots 01/09, 01/10 and 01/15 shown on the
land plans and special category land plans, in which Port of Tilbury London
Limited holds an interest,       together with any quays, jetties, docks,
river walls and other land (including land covered by water) or works held in
connection with that undertaking;         “Port of Tilbury London Limited”
means the statutory harbour authority for and operator of the Port of Tilbury,
London;         “relevant planning authority” means Thurrock Borough Council;
“replacement land” means the land forming plot 01/07 listed in the book of
reference and shown on the special category land plan of the land plans as
replacement common land;         “requirement” means those matters set out in
Schedule 2 (requirements) and a reference to a numbered requirement is a
reference to the requirement set out in the paragraph of that Schedule with
the same number;         “RWE” means RWE Generation UK Plc, company number
03892782, whose registered office is at Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill
Way, Swindon, Wiltshire SN5 6PB;         “special category land” means the
land registered as common land under the Commons Registration Act 1965 and
shown on the special category land plan of the land plans;         “statutory
undertaker” has the same meaning as set out in section 127(8) of the 2008 Act
and a public communications provider as defined in section 151 of the
Communications Act 2003 ;         “street” means a street within the meaning
of section 48 of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a street or
between two carriageways, and includes any footpath and any part of a street;
“street authority” in relation to street, has the same meaning as in part 3 of
the 1991 Act;         “the tribunal” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper
Tribunal;         “the undertaker” means Thurrock Power Limited, company
number 10917470, whose registered office is at 1st Floor, 145 Kensington
Church Street, London, W8 7LP;         “watercourse” includes all rivers,
streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and
passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain;
“work” means a work set out in Schedule 1; and a reference to a work
designated by a number, or by a combination of letters and numbers, is a
reference to the work so designated in that Schedule;         “working day”
means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or English bank or public
holiday;         “Work no.15 land” means the land within the limits of
deviation of Work no. 15 owned by Port of Tilbury London Limited; and
“works plans” means the plans certified by the Secretary of State as the works
plans for the purposes of this Order.

2.2

Reference in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to do
or to place and maintain anything in, on, or under land, or in the airspace
above its surface, and to any trusts or incidents (including restrictive
covenants) to which the land is subject, and references in this Order to the
creation or acquisition of new rights include the imposition of restrictive
covenants which interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for
the benefit of the land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise
comprised in the Order.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work are taken to be measured
along that work.

2.4

In this Order “includes” must be construed without limitation.

2.5

References in this Order to any statutory body include that body’s successor
bodies as from time to time have jurisdiction in relation to the authorised
development.

2.6

All areas described in square metres in the book of reference are approximate.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

Subject to the provisions of this Order, including the requirements, the
undertaker is granted development consent for the authorised development to be
carried out within the Order limits.

#### Limits of deviation

4

4.1

The undertaker must construct the authorised development within the Order
limits shown on the works plans.

4.2

In constructing or maintaining the authorised development, the undertaker may
deviate laterally from the indicative centrelines or situations of the
authorised development shown on the works plans to the extent of the limits of
deviation for each work shown on those plans and vertically from the levels of
the authorised development shown on the illustrative cross section plans—

4.2.a

upwards only within the parameters for the relevant work set out in table 1 in
requirement 4; or

4.2.b

downwards to any distance.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the undertaker may at any time maintain the
authorised development, except to the extent that this Order, or an agreement
made under this Order, provides otherwise.

5.2

This article only authorises the carrying out of maintenance works within the
Order limits.

#### Operation of generating station

6

6.1

The undertaker is authorised to use and operate the authorised development for
which development consent is granted by this Order.

6.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain
any permit or licence under any legislation that may be required from time to
time to authorise the operation of the authorised development.

#### Benefit of Order

7

7.1

Subject to article  8  (consent to transfer benefit of order), the provisions
of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have effect solely for the
benefit of the undertaker.

7.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to—

7.2.a

Work no. 3 in relation to which this Order has effect for the benefit of the
undertaker and NGET; and

7.2.b

Work nos. 4 and 5 in relation to which this Order has effect for the benefit
of the undertaker and NGG.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

8

8.1

Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the undertaker may—

8.1.a

transfer to another person (“the transferee”) any or all of the benefit of the
provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the transferee; or

8.1.b

grant to another person (“the lessee”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

8.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph  (1)  references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph  (3) , include references
to the transferee or the lessee.

8.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (1)  is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

8.4

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or grant
under this article, except where the transferee or lessee is—

8.4.a

the holder of a licence under section 6 of the Electricity Act 1989 ;

8.4.b

in relation only to a transfer or lease of Work nos. 4 or 5, the holder of a
licence under section 7 of the Gas Act 1986 ;

8.4.c

in relation to a transfer or lease of any works within a highway, a highway
authority responsible for the highways within the Order limits; and

8.4.d

in relation to a transfer or lease of any works within a street situated
within the Port of Tilbury or Work no. 15, Port of Tilbury London Limited or
any successor as the statutory harbour authority for the Port of Tilbury.

8.5

Where the consent of the Secretary of State is not required under paragraph
(4) the undertaker must notify the Secretary of State and the Port of Tilbury
London Limited in writing before transferring or granting a benefit referred
to in paragraph (1).

8.6

The notification referred to in paragraph (5) must state—

8.6.a

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the powers
will be transferred or granted;

8.6.b

subject to paragraph (7), the date on which the transfer will take effect;

8.6.c

the powers to be transferred or granted;

8.6.d

pursuant to paragraph (3), the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that
will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred or granted; and

8.6.e

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates.

8.7

The date specified under paragraph (6)(b) must not be earlier than the expiry
of 14 days from the date of the receipt of the notice.

8.8

The notice given under paragraph (5) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

9

9.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
persons aggrieved by statutory nuisances) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(statutory nuisances and inspections therefor) of that Act no order is to be
made, and no fine may be imposed, under section 82(2) of that Act if the
defendant shows that the nuisance—

9.1.a

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised development in
accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of noise on
construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior consent for
work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;

9.1.b

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and cannot reasonably be avoided; or

9.1.c

is a consequence of the use of the authorised development and cannot
reasonably be avoided.

9.2

Section 61(9) (prior consent for work on construction site) of the Control of
Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Disapplication of legislation etc.

10

10.1

The following enactments do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction of the authorised development or any maintenance of any
part of the authorised development—

10.1.a

the West Tilbury Commons, West Tilbury, Essex, Bye-Laws, made by the
Conservators of West Tilbury Commons, under the powers of the Commons
Regulation (West Tilbury) Provisional Order Confirmation Act 1893 ;

10.1.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw making powers of the authority)
to the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

10.1.c

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66 (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ;

10.1.d

regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016  in respect of a flood risk
activity (including works affecting sea defences) only;

10.1.e

sections 23 and 30 of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ; and

10.1.f

the provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  in so far as they
relate to the temporary possession of land under articles 28 and 29 of this
Order.

10.2

The carrying out of any of the following works and operations—

10.2.a

Work nos. 12(a), 12(e), and 15;

10.2.b

any ancillary work listed in Schedule 1;

10.2.c

the use of any street within the port or Work no. 12 for the passage of
construction, maintenance or decommissioning vehicles utilised for the
authorised development; and

10.2.d

any activities carried out pursuant to the requirements set out in Schedule 2,

is not to be regarded as conflicting, or constituting non-compliance by Port
of Tilbury London Limited, with the following requirements in Schedule 2 to
the Port of Tilbury (Expansion) Order 2019—

10.2.a

Requirement 4;

10.2.b

Requirement 5;

10.2.c

Requirement 11 (c), (d), (f) and (h); and

10.2.d

Requirement 12.

### STREETS

#### Street works

11

11.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

11.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

11.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

11.1.c

place apparatus in the street;

11.1.d

maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and

11.1.e

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
sub-paragraphs  (a)  to  (d) .

11.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right for the purposes
of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

11.3

Subject to article  12  (application of the 1991 Act), the provisions of
sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works carried out under
paragraph  (1) .

#### Application of the 1991 Act

12

12.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

12.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3)  of that Act; or

12.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the local highway authority,
might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64
(dual carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184  (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

12.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph  (1)
, to be construed as references to the undertaker.

12.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

12.3.a

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

12.3.b

section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

12.3.c

section 58  (restriction on works following substantial road works);

12.3.d

section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works); and

12.3.e

schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

12.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph  (5)  (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a
temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article  13
(temporary restriction of use of streets) whether or not the stopping up,
alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that
Act.

12.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph  (4)  are—

12.5.a

section 54 (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph  (6) ;

12.5.b

section 55 (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph  (6) ;

12.5.c

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

12.5.d

section 59 (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works);

12.5.e

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

12.5.f

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

12.5.g

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

12.5.h

section 75 (inspection fees);

12.5.i

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

12.5.j

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route),

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

12.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph  (4)  have effect
as if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

#### Temporary restriction of use of streets

13

13.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may alter, divert or restrict the use of any street and may for
any reasonable time—

13.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

13.1.b

subject to paragraph  (4) , prevent all persons from passing along the street.

13.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may
temporarily restrict or control the use of the streets set out in column 2 of
Schedule 4 to the extent set out in column 3 of that Schedule.

13.3

The undertaker may use any street temporarily stopped up or restricted under
the powers conferred by this article, and which is within the Order limits, as
a temporary working site.

13.4

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary alteration, diversion or
restriction of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no such
access.

13.5

The undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert or restrict the use of any
street for which it is not the street authority without the consent of the
street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent but
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

13.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

13.7

Save for any application made to Highways England, if a street authority which
receives an application for consent under paragraph (5) fails to notify the
undertaker of its decision before the end of the period of 28 days beginning
with the date on which the application was made, it is deemed to have granted
consent.

#### Access to works

14

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Traffic regulation

15

15.1

From such a date as the undertaker may determine, the application of the
traffic regulation order listed in column 3 of Schedule 3 will be suspended
until the completion of the authorised development.

15.2

The undertaker must notify the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated of the commencement of suspension
under paragraph 1 not less than 14 days before the date to be determined under
paragraph (1), and 14 days prior to completion of the authorised development
of the date of completion for the purposes of paragraph (1).

15.3

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), and subject to the
provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic authority in whose
area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not be unreasonably
withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development
revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order not listed in Schedule
3 made, or having effect as if made, under the 1984 Act, either at all times
or at times, on days or during such periods as may be specified by the
undertaker.

15.4

The power conferred by paragraph (3) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the commencement of operation of the authorised
development but subject to paragraph  (8)  any prohibition, restriction or
other provision made under this article may have effect both before and after
the expiry of that period.

15.5

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph  (6) .

15.6

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by this article unless
it has—

15.6.a

given not less than—

15.6.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

15.6.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

15.6.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph  (a)(i) , or within 7 days of its
receipt of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph
(a)(ii) .

15.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
this article—

15.7.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

15.7.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

15.7.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking places) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

15.7.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

15.8

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by this article within a period of 24 months
from the opening of the authorised development.

15.9

Before exercising the powers conferred by this article the undertaker must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

15.10

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

15.11

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

15.12

Save for any application made to Highways England, if the traffic authority
fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28 days of receiving an
application for consent under paragraph (2) the traffic authority is deemed to
have granted consent.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

16

16.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

16.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

16.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs or the
person or body otherwise having authority to give such consent; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose but must not be unreasonably withheld.

16.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

16.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

16.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

16.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

16.6

This article does not authorise a groundwater activity or a water discharge
activity for which an environmental permit would be required under regulation
12 of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

16.7

In this article—

16.7.a

“public sewer or drain” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes England,
the Environment Agency, a harbour authority within the meaning of section
57(1) (interpretation) of the Harbours Act 1964 , an internal drainage board,
a joint planning board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban
development corporation; and

16.7.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

16.8

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4)(a) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

17

17.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits and—

17.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

17.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

17.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

17.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

17.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least fourteen days’ notice has been served on
every owner and occupier of the land.

17.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

17.3.a

must, if so required before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

17.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

17.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

17.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

17.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority.

17.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Removal of human remains

18

18.1

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains within the Order limits it must remove those human
remains from within the Order limits, or cause them to be removed, in
accordance with the following provisions of this article.

18.2

Before any such remains are removed from within the Order limits the
undertaker must give notice of the intended removal, describing the location
of the identified remains and stating the general effect of the following
provisions of this article, by—

18.2.a

publishing a notice once in each of two successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised project; and

18.2.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the boundary of the
Order limits.

18.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
relevant planning authority.

18.4

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph  (2)  any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred in the specific land may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

18.5

Where a person has given notice under paragraph (4), and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

18.5.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

18.5.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium,

and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (10).

18.6

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph (4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims
to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question is to
be determined on the application of either party in summary manner by the
county court, and the court may make an order specifying who is to remove the
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

18.7

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

18.8

If—

18.8.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (4) no notice under that
paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the
Order limits; or

18.8.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (6) within 56
days after the giving of the notice but the person who has given the notice
fails to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days; or

18.8.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (6)
any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove
the remains; or

18.8.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph (9), the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be re-interred in such burial ground, or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves must be re-interred in
individual containers which must be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

18.9

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(4) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and
that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

18.10

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

18.10.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to
the Registrar General giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

18.10.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph (8) must be sent by the undertaker to the relevant
planning authority mentioned in paragraph (3).

18.11

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

18.12

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

18.13

Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857  (bodies not to be removed from burial
grounds, save under faculty, without licence of Secretary of State) is not to
apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

19

19.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it and may use any land so acquired for the purposes authorised by this
Order or for any other purposes in connection with or ancillary to the
authorised development.

19.2

This article is subject to paragraph (3), article 21, article 22 (compulsory
acquisition of rights), article 25 (acquisition of subsoil etc. only), article
28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) and
article 33 (special category land).

19.3

The undertaker may only exercise the power conferred by paragraph (1) on land
comprised in 1 of the 2 options for access forming part of Work no. 12 being—

19.3.a

the area within Work no. 12(c) as shown on the works plans and comprising
plots 01/19, 01/21, 01/22, 01/30, 01/31 and 01/32 and part of plot 01/20, as
shown on the lands plans; or

19.3.b

the area within Work no. 12(d) as shown on the works plans and comprising
plots 01/27, 01/28, 01/29, 04/05, and 04/06 and part of plot 04/03 as shown on
the lands plans; and

where the undertaker serves notice to treat under section 5 of the 1965 Act,
or makes a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act over any of the land
specified in either (a) or (b), it must at the same time serve on the owners
of the land of the other option, a notice specifying that compulsory
acquisition powers cannot be exercised over that land under this Order.

#### Statutory authority to override easements and other rights

20

20.1

The carrying out or use of the authorised development and the doing of
anything else authorised by this Order is authorised for the purpose specified
in section 158(2) of the 2008 Act (nuisance: statutory authority),
notwithstanding that it involves—

20.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

20.1.b

a breach of restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract.

20.2

The undertaker must pay compensation to any person whose land is injuriously
affected by—

20.2.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

20.2.b

a breach of restriction as to use of land arising by virtue of contract,

authorised by virtue of this Order and the operation of section 158 of the
2008 Act.

20.3

The interests and rights to which this article applies are any easement,
liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support and include restrictions as
to the use of land arising by virtue of a contract.

20.4

Where an interest, right or restriction is overridden by paragraph (1),
compensation—

20.4.a

is payable under section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) or
section 10 (further provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of
the 1965 Act; and

20.4.b

is to be assessed in the same manner and subject to the same rules as in the
case of other compensation under those sections where—

20.4.b.i

the compensation is to be estimated in connection with a purchase under that
Act; or

20.4.b.ii

the injury arises from the execution of works on or use of land acquired under
that Act.

20.5

Nothing in this article is to be construed as authorising any act or omission
on the part of any person which is actionable at the suit of any person on any
grounds other than such an interference or breach as is mentioned in paragraph
(1) of this article.

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

21

21.1

After the end of the period 5 years beginning on the day on which this Order
is made—

21.1.a

no notice to treat may be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and

21.1.b

no declaration may be executed under section 4 of the 1981 Act (execution of
declaration) as applied by article 24 (application of the 1981 Act).

21.2

The authority conferred by article 28 (temporary use of the land for carrying
out the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), save that nothing in this paragraph is to prevent the
undertaker remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if
the land was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights

22

22.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the undertaker may acquire compulsorily
such rights or impose such restrictive covenants over the Order land as may be
required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under article 19
(compulsory acquisition of land) by creating them as well as by acquiring
rights already in existence.

22.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column 1 of Schedule 5 (land of
which temporary possession may be taken and in which only new rights etc. may
be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to
the acquisition of such wayleaves, easements or new rights in the land and the
imposition of such restrictive covenants as are specified in column 2 of that
Schedule.

22.3

The undertaker may only exercise the power conferred by paragraph (1) on land
comprised in 1 of the 2 options for access forming part of Work no. 12 being—

22.3.a

the area within Work no. 12(c) as shown on the works plans and comprising
plots 01/19, 01/21, 01/22, 01/30, 01/31 and 01/32 and part of plot 01/20, as
shown on the land plans; or

22.3.b

the area within Work no. 12(d) as shown on the works plans and comprising
plots 01/27, 01/28, 01/29, 04/05, and 04/06 and part of plot 04/03 as shown on
the land plans; and

where the undertaker serves notice to treat under section 5 of the 1965 Act or
makes a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act over any of the land
specified in either (a) or (b), it must at the same time serve on the owners
of the land of the other option, a notice specifying that compulsory
acquisition powers cannot be exercised over that land under this Order.

22.4

Subject to section 8 of the 1965 Act (other provisions as to divided land),
where the undertaker acquires a right over land under paragraph (1), the
undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that land.

22.5

Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments
for creation of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) has effect
for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to compensation and the
provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in relation to the compulsory
acquisition under this article of a right over land by the creation a new
right or the imposition of restrictive covenants.

#### Private rights

23

23.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

23.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

23.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry),

whichever is the earliest.

23.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable or, where so notified by the undertaker, extinguished in so
far as in either case their continuance would be inconsistent with the
exercise of the right—

23.2.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

23.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry) in pursuance of the right,

whichever is earliest.

23.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker within the Order land are extinguished on commencement of
any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or breaches such
rights.

23.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land and so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the
exercise of the temporary possession of that land.

23.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this Order is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case
of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

23.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right or apparatus to which
section 138 of the 2008 Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of
apparatus, of statutory undertaker etc.) or article 30 (statutory undertakers)
applies.

23.7

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

23.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

23.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights
over land;

23.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

23.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

23.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it;

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

23.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

23.8

If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

23.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

23.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

23.9

This article is subject to article 22(4).

#### Application of the 1981 Act

24

24.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

24.2

The 1981 Act, as applied, has effect with the following modifications.

24.3

In section 1 (application of Act) for subsection (2) substitute—

24.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

24.4

Omit section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration).

24.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration).

24.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

24.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the
Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent)” ; and

24.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 21 of the Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant
Development Consent Order 2022” .

24.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration) for subsection (1)(b)
substitute—

24.7.b

on every other person who has given information to the acquiring authority
with respect to any of that land further to the invitation published and
served under section 134 of the Planning Act 2008,

.

24.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a) omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

24.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

But see article 25(3) (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Thurrock Flexible
Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil from this Schedule.

.

24.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be constructed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act and as modified by article 26
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) to the compulsory acquisition of the
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil only

25

25.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 19 (compulsory
acquisition of land) and paragraph (1) of article 22 (compulsory acquisition
of rights) as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be
acquired under that provision instead of acquiring the whole of the land.

25.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in the subsoil of land
under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not to be required to acquire an
interest in any other part of the land.

25.3

Paragraph (2) does not prevent Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as modified by
article 22(5) and paragraph 8 of Schedule 7 as the case may be) from applying
where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in a cellar, vault, arch
or other construction forming part of a house, building or factory.

25.4

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil only—

25.4.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 26 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act);

25.4.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

25.4.c

section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

26

26.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

26.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

26.2.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the
Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent)” ; and

26.2.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 4” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 21 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant
Development Consent Order 2022” .

26.3

In section 22(2) (interests omitted from purchase), for “section 4 of this
Act” substitute  “article 21 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire
land compulsorily) of the Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant Development
Consent Order 2022” .

#### Rights under or over streets

27

27.1

The undertaker may enter upon and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
air-space over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or air-space
for those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised
development.

27.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

27.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

27.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

27.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street or any easement or right in
the street.

27.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss by the exercise of that power, is to be
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

27.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary
measures) applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to
be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

28

28.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development—

28.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

28.1.a.i

the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land of which temporary
possession may be taken and in which only rights etc. may be acquired) for the
purposes of constructing the authorised development;

28.1.a.ii

the land in column 1 of Schedule 6 (land of which only temporary possession
may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of that Schedule; and

28.1.a.iii

any of the Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) and no declaration has been
made under section 4 of the 1981 Act (execution of declaration), other than in
connection with the acquisition of rights only;

28.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land;

28.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

28.1.d

construct any works specified in relation to that land in column (2) of
Schedule 5 or column (3) of Schedule 6, or any mitigation;

but may not use the power granted under this article to construct any new
means of access within Work nos. 12(c) or 12(d) unless details of the design
for the new road section to be constructed as part of that work have been
approved under requirement 4 of Schedule 2 to this Order.

28.2

Not less than fourteen days before entering on and taking temporary possession
of land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended
entry on the owners and occupiers of the land.

28.3

The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

28.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) and (ii) after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the works for
which temporary possession of the land was taken; or

28.3.b

in the case of land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(iii) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the works for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has,
before the end of that period, served notice of entry under section 11 of the
1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or has
otherwise acquired the land subject to temporary possession.

28.4

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or has otherwise
acquired the land subject to temporary possession, the undertaker must, before
giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been taken
under this article, remove all temporary works and restore the land to the
reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the undertaker is not
to be required to replace a building removed under this article.

28.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land which
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of any
power conferred by this article.

28.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

28.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

28.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

28.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

28.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

28.11

Nothing in this article prevents the taking of temporary possession of any
land more than once.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

29

29.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period (as
defined in paragraph 11) relating to any part of the authorised development,
the undertaker may—

29.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development; and

29.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

29.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

29.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

29.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

29.3

Not less than twenty-eight days before entering on and taking temporary
possession of land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the
intended entry on the owners and occupiers of the land.

29.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

29.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

29.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

29.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

29.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

29.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

29.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

29.11

In this article “the maintenance period” means the period of 5 years beginning
with the date on which the generating station forming Work no.1A first exports
electricity to the national electricity transmission network.

#### Statutory undertakers

30

Subject to article 22 and the provisions of Schedule 8 (protective
provisions), the undertaker may—

30.a

acquire compulsorily the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the
land plans and described in the book of reference;

30.b

extinguish or suspend the rights of, and remove or reposition the apparatus
belonging to, statutory undertakers over or within the Order limits; and

30.c

acquire compulsorily the new rights over land belonging to statutory
undertaker shown on the land plans and described in the book of reference.

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

31

Where a street is temporarily altered or diverted or its use is temporarily
stopped up under article 13 (temporary restriction of use of streets) any
statutory undertaker whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the
street is to have the same powers and right in respect of that apparatus,
subject to Schedule 8 (protective provisions), as if this Order had not been
made.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

32

32.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

32.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 30 (statutory undertakers), any
person who is—

32.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

32.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

32.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 31
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

32.4

In this article—

32.4.a

“public communications provider” has the same meaning as in section 151(1) of
the Communications Act 2003 ; and

32.4.b

“public utility undertaker” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act.

#### Special category land

33

33.1

The special category land is not to vest in the undertaker by virtue of any
power granted by this Order until the undertaker has acquired the replacement
land and the relevant planning authority has certified that the replacement
land has been satisfactorily laid out and been made available by the
undertaker.

33.2

On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied the replacement land is
to vest in the person(s) in whom the special category land was vested
immediately before it was vested in the undertaker and is to be subject to the
same rights trusts and incidents as attached to the special category land.

33.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after paragraph (2) takes effect, the
undertaker must apply under section 14 (statutory dispositions) of the Commons
Act 2006  and paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 (applications pursuant to section 14:
statutory dispositions) to the Commons Registration (England) Regulations 2014
to amend the relevant register of common land accordingly.

33.4

In this article “rights, trusts and incidents” includes all such provisions
contained in the Commons Regulation (West Tilbury) Provisional Order
Confirmation Act 1893 or having effect under that Act and s193 of the Law of
Property Act 1925.

#### Funding

34

34.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions
referred to in paragraph (2) in relation to any Order land unless it has first
put in place either—

34.1.a

a guarantee, and the amount of that guarantee has been approved by the
Secretary of State in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay
compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to in paragraph (2); or

34.1.b

an alternative form of security, and the amount of that security for that
purpose has been approved by the Secretary of State in respect of the
liabilities of the undertaker to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions
referred to in paragraph (2).

34.2

The provisions are—

34.2.a

article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land);

34.2.b

article 22 (compulsory acquisition of rights);

34.2.c

article 23 (private rights);

34.2.d

article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only);

34.2.e

article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

34.2.f

article 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);
and

34.2.g

article 30 (statutory undertakers).

34.3

A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability
of the undertaker to pay compensation pursuant to the provisions referred to
in paragraph (2) is to be treated as enforceable against the guarantor or
person providing the alternative form of security by any person to whom such
compensation is payable and must be in such a form as to be capable of
enforcement by such a person.

34.4

Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security
to be in place for more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant
power is exercised.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

35

35.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub, or cut back its roots,
within or overhanging land within the Order limits if it reasonably believes
it to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

35.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

35.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

35.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must—

35.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub; and

35.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity.

35.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

35.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerow within the Order
limits that is required to be removed.

35.5

In this article “hedgerow” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerows
Regulations 1997 .

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Protective provisions

36

Schedule 8 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act

37

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as not being operational land) of the 1990 Act.

#### Certification of plans, etc.

38

38.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of—

38.1.a

the land plans and special category land plans (consisting of a key plan and
sheets 1 to 5 inclusive) as approved by the Secretary of State under
requirement 30;

38.1.b

the works plans (document number A2.3);

38.1.c

the illustrative cross section plans (document number A2.8);

38.1.d

the illustrative landscape plan (document number A2.9);

38.1.e

the conceptual drainage strategy (document number A7.3);

38.1.f

the book of reference as approved by the Secretary of State under requirement
30;

38.1.g

the environmental statement (document number A6.0);

38.1.h

the design principles statement (document number A8.4);

38.1.i

the outline code of construction practice (document number A8.6);

38.1.j

the outline ecological management plan (document number A8.7);

38.1.k

the outline construction traffic management plan (document number A8.8);

38.1.l

the outline construction worker travel plan (document number A8.9);

38.1.m

the outline written scheme of archaeological investigation (document number
A8.11);

38.1.n

the outline employment and skills strategy (document number A8.13); and

38.1.o

any other plans or documents referred to in this Order as requiring
certification,

for certification that they are true copies of the documents referred to in
this Order.

38.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

39

39.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

39.1.a

by post;

39.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

39.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

39.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

39.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address, and otherwise—

39.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

39.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

39.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

39.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

39.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

39.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

39.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

39.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

39.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

39.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

39.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

39.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph  (8) .

39.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

39.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

39.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

39.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

39.10

In this article “legible in all material respects” means that the information
contained in the notice or document is available to that person to no lesser
extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a notice or
document in printed form.

#### No double recovery

40

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract or any rule of law, or under
two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

41

41.1

This article applies to any agreement entered into by the undertaker under
article 8 (consent to transfer of benefit of Order) so far as it relates to
the terms on which any land is subject to a lease granted by or under that
agreement.

41.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

41.3

No enactment or rule of law to which paragraph (2) applies is to apply in
relation to the rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by
or under any such agreement so as to—

41.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

41.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

41.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Arbitration

42

42.1

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the parties, any difference under any
provision of this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined
by the tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be
agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the
application of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by
the Secretary of State.

42.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of the Secretary of State is
required under any provision of this Order shall not be subject to
arbitration.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy     Gareth Leigh   Head of Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy   16th February 2022

## SCHEDULES

AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

In the administrative area of Thurrock Borough Council

The construction, operation and maintenance of a nationally significant
infrastructure project as defined in sections 14(1)(a) and 15 of the 2008 Act,
comprising—

Work no. 1 – An electricity generating station and battery storage facility
comprising—

1A – Gas fired electricity generating station with a gross rated electrical
output of up to 620 MW consisting of— a engine house building(s); b   up to 96
gas reciprocating engines ; c up to 48 exhaust stacks; d up to 48 gas engine
exhaust energy recovery systems; e cooling system; f air pollutant control
system; g lubricating oil and air pollutant control system reagent storage; h
a gas pre-heat, metering and pressure reduction compound; and

1B – Battery storage facility  having a combination of net rated electrical
output and duration that delivers an electrical capacity of up to 600MWh,
which may comprise— i a net rated electrical output of 150MW for up to 4 hours
ii a net rated electrical output of 240MW for up to 2 hours and 30 minutes;
iii a net rated electrical output of 300MW for up to 2 hours; iv a net rated
electrical output of 400MW for up to 1 hour and 30 minutes; or v a net rated
electrical output of 600MW for up to 1 hour; and which consists of;   a
storage battery houses or containers; b storage inverter containers; c cooling
system; and

1C – Facilities to serve both 1A and 1B consisting of— a electrical equipment
comprising 132 kV and 275 kV substations and electrical cables, switch houses
and switch rooms, and auxiliary transformers; b fire suppression system and
firewater tank; c operations, maintenance and storage buildings; d control
room(s); e septic tank or packaged foul treatment plant; f internal roads and
parking; g surface water drainage; h surface water runoff attenuation pond(s);
and i landscaping. Together with associated development within the meaning of
section 115(2) of the 2008 Act—

Work no. 2 – Creation and enhancement of onshore wildlife habitat including
topsoil strip, planting, construction of ditches, mounds and banks, and
enhancement of retained ditches for ecological benefit; and connection of
retained ditches to Work no. 1C(r) surface water drainage.

Work no. 3 – An electrical connection to Tilbury Substation comprising—

3A – 275 kV high-voltage underground cables for electricity export and lower
voltage underground cables for auxiliary power supply; and

3B – Connection equipment in Tilbury Substation consisting of— a civil works –
equipment bases, cable trenching, fencing; b electrical equipment installation
– current transformers, voltage transformers, high accuracy metering
equipment, circuit breakers, disconnectors and emergency shutoff; c cable
sealing end (where underground high voltage transmission cables join to
existing overhead transmission cable) including, base, structure and
terminations; d blockhouse (switch room); and e control and protection
modifications for the re-equipped bay and integration to the site wide
systems, including busbar protection.

Work no. 4 – An underground high-pressure gas pipeline between Work no. 1 and
Work no. 5A and gas pipeline(s) within Work no. 1.

Work no. 5 – A connection point to the gas National Transmission System
comprising—

5A – A gas connection compound with landscaping consisting of— a a National
Grid Minimum Offtake Connection facility containing remotely operable valve,
control and instrumentation kiosk, and electrical supply kiosk; b a Pipeline
Inspection Gauge Trap Facility containing pipeline inspection gauge launching
facility, emergency control valve, isolation valve, control and
instrumentation kiosk, and electrical supply kiosk; and

5B – If required by the siting of Work no. 5A, a high-pressure underground gas
pipeline between Work no. 5A(a) and the gas National Transmission System; and

5C – An access track and junction from Station Road with drainage and
landscaping.

Work no. 6 – An access road and junction from Station Road with drainage and
landscaping.

Work no. 7 – A water supply connection to the water main at Station Road.

Work no. 8 – Construction compound(s) and laydown area(s) south of Tilbury
Loop railway.

Work no. 9 –  Not used.

Work no. 10 –  Not used

Work no. 11 –  Not used.

Work no. 12 – An access road from the A1089 St Andrew’s Road comprising— a
improvements, repairs, widening, realignment and surfacing of existing private
roads, verges and hardstanding areas, to make the route suitable for use by
heavy goods vehicles;

and connecting to 12(a)— b not used ; c engineering works and construction of
new road sections with drainage and landscaping; d engineering works and
construction of new road sections with drainage and landscaping; and e
engineering works and construction of new road section with alterations to
ditch and electrical service boxes.

Work no. 13 – A footbridge, ground works and fencing for a permissive path
between Fort Road and Work no. 14.

Work no. 14 – Creation of approximately 115,775m 2  of common land with
planting and landscaping.

Work no. 15 - An access road and junction from Fort Road to the Port of
Tilbury access road, comprising engineering works and construction of new road
with gates, fencing and alterations to drainage, landscape planting and
alteration of services.

In connection with the construction of any of those works comprising the
Nationally Significant Infrastructure Project or associated development to the
extent that they do not otherwise form part of any such work, further
development within the Order limits consisting of— a retaining walls,
embankments, barriers, parapets, drainage, fencing, culverts and lighting; b
site clearance (including fencing and demolition of existing structures),
earthworks (including soil stripping and storage, site levelling) and
remediation of contamination if present; c works to alter the position of
apparatus at or below ground level including mains, sewers, drains and cables
and also including below ground structures associated with that apparatus; d
construction compounds and working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle
parking, ramps and other means of access, internal roads and tracks, perimeter
enclosures, security fencing, construction-related buildings, welfare
facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other buildings,
machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences including provision of services
and utilities; e landscaping, planting, tree planting and erection of
permanent means of enclosure and boundary facilities including fences and
gates, alteration of drains and ditches; f alteration of layout of streets to
form temporary and permanent accesses, altering the level of any kerb, footway
or verge within a street and surface treatments; g diversions during
construction of existing access routes and subsequent reinstatement of
existing routes; and h such other works, working sites, storage areas and
works of demolition, as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or
for purposes ancillary to, the construction of the authorised development but
only insofar as they do not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental
statement.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 3

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

    “AOD” means above Ordnance Datum;         “CCR area” means the area
reserved for carbon capture readiness as shown on the work plans;
“commissioning” means the process during which plant components and systems
forming part of the authorised development, having been constructed or
modified, are made operational and are tested and verified to be in accordance
with design assumptions and to have met the appropriate safety criteria;
“contaminated land” has the same meaning as that given in section 78A of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 ;         “discharging authority” means any
body responsible for giving any consent, agreement or approval required by a
requirement included in Part 1 of this Schedule, or for giving any consent,
agreement or approval further to any document referred to in any such
requirement;         “LEMP” means the Landscape and Ecological Management
Plan;         “Network Rail” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited
(company number 02904587, whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt Street,
London, NW1 2DN) and any associated company of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited which holds property for railway purposes, and for the purpose of this
definition “associated company” means any company which is (within the meaning
of section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006)  the holding company of Network
Rail Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited or another subsidiary of the holding company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited;         “Network Rail property” means any railway
belonging to Network Rail within the Order limits and—       any station,
land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to Network Rail or connected
with any such railway; and       any easement or other property interest held
or used by Network Rail for the purposes of such railway or works, apparatus
or equipment; and             “requirement consultee” means any body named in
a requirement as a body to be consulted by the discharging authority in
discharging that requirement.

###### Time limit

2

The authorised development must not commence later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date on which this Order comes into force.

###### Notice of commencement of authorised development

3

Notice of commencement of the authorised development must be given to the
relevant planning authority within 7 days of the date on which the authorised
development is commenced.

###### Detailed design

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until written details of
the following for that part have been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority specifying—

4.1.a

the siting, design, external appearance, dimensions and floor levels of all
permanent buildings and structures;

4.1.b

the colour, materials and surface finishes of all permanent buildings and
structures; and

4.1.c

details of the provision made for cycle parking facilities for staff.

4.2

The details to be submitted for approval under sub-paragraph  9(1)  must—

4.2.a

be in accordance with the design principles statement;

4.2.b

include flood resistance and resilience measures for a flood level of up to
2.84m above Ordnance Survey datum for critical equipment; and

4.2.c

include appropriately scaled plans and sectional drawings.

4.3

No works creating or affecting culverts in ordinary watercourses or the
balancing pond east of Fort Road may be commenced unless the detail of such
works has been approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation
with Thurrock Council in its capacity as the lead local flood authority.

4.4

In so far as the details submitted under paragraph (1) relate to Work no. 4,
the relevant planning authority must consult Highways England on those details
prior to issuing any approval under that paragraph.

4.5

The authorised development must be designed in accordance with the parameters
specified in Table 1 below and the works plans and constructed in accordance
with approved plans and any other approvals given by the relevant planning
authority pursuant to this requirement.

  Table 1       Parameter Work no.s Maximum value(s) and unit   Gas engine
exhaust stack height 1A(c) 43m AOD Gas engine building(s) or equipment
dimensions (in total) 1A(a, b, d, e, f) Width: 135m   Length: 265m   Height:
20m   Battery building(s) or containers dimensions (in total) 1B Width: 106m
Length: 106m   Height: 10m   Customer substation equipment height 1C(l) 15m
Height of all equipment and structures within Work 1 not otherwise specified 1
10m National grid gas connection compound dimensions 5A Width: 50m   Length:
50m   Height: 5m   Gas pipeline(s) maximum excavation depth 4 4m for trenched
or 5m below base of feature crossed for trenchless construction Underground
cable(s) maximum depth 3A 4 m for trenched or 5 m below base of feature
crossed for trenchless construction Road construction working corridor width 6
20 m Gas pipeline construction working corridor width 4 23 m CCR minimum area
n/a 32,100 m 2 Footbridge to replacement common land 13 Must be a clear span
structure

4.6

The buildings and structures identified in Table 1 must only be constructed
within the area for the work of which they form part as shown in the works
plans.

4.7

The details submitted for Work no.12 under sub-paragraph (1) may only include
details for either Work no.12(c) or Work no.12(d), and must specify which of
Work no. 12(c) or Work no.12(d) is to be developed.

4.8

In so far as the details submitted under paragraph (1) relate to Work nos. 4,
6 and 7, the relevant planning authority must consult Network Rail on those
details where the relevant works may impact Network Rail property and ensure:

4.8.a

in respect of Work no. 4, any part of that work is situated over 200 metres
from Network Rail property;

4.8.b

in respect of Work no. 6, any part of that work is situated over 15 metres
from Network Rail property; and

4.8.c

in respect of Work no. 7, any part of that work is situated over 15 metres
from Network Rail property.

###### Code of construction practice

5

5.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until a code of
construction practice for that part has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

5.2

The code of construction practice must be substantially in accordance with the
outline code of construction practice and—

5.2.a

include relevant measures relied on in the environmental statement; and

5.2.b

include management plans, working methods and mitigation measures including—

5.2.b.i

details of lighting during construction;

5.2.b.ii

pollution incident control plan;

5.2.b.iii

soil management strategy; and

5.2.b.iv

dust management and monitoring plan.

5.3

Construction of the authorised development must be carried out in accordance
with the approved code of construction practice.

###### Construction traffic management plan

6

6.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until a construction
traffic management plan for that part has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant planning authority in consultation with the highway authority,
Highways England, Network Rail, Port of Tilbury London Limited and Royal Mail.

6.2

The construction traffic management plan must—

6.2.a

specify measures to manage the impacts of construction traffic during the
construction works; and

6.2.b

be substantially in accordance with the outline construction traffic
management plan.

6.3

Construction works for the authorised development must be carried out in
accordance with the approved construction traffic management plan for that
part.

###### Construction worker travel plan

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until a construction worker
travel plan for that part has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the highway authority, Highways
England, Network Rail and Port of Tilbury London Limited.

7.2

The construction worker travel plan must be substantially in accordance with
the outline construction worker travel plan.

7.3

Construction works for the authorised development must be carried out in
accordance with the approved construction worker travel plan for that part.

###### External lighting

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development where use of artificial lighting is
proposed in operation can be externally lit between 18:00 and 07:00 until a
scheme for the management and mitigation of artificial light emissions during
the operation of that part of the authorised development has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority.

8.2

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be implemented and maintained
as approved during the operational phase.

###### Construction hours

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraph  (2) , no construction works are to take place except
between—

9.1.a

08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday; and

9.1.b

08:00 to 13:00 on Saturday;

unless otherwise agreed by the relevant planning authority.

9.2

The following works are permitted outside the hours referred to in sub-
paragraph  (1) —

9.2.a

works that cannot be interrupted or emergency works; and

9.2.b

works which do not cause noise that is more than 5dB above the pre-
construction ambient noise at the nearest residential property to the Order
limits, subject to lower cut-off values of 65dB, 55dB and 45dB LAeqT from site
noise alone, for the daytime, evening and night-time periods, respectively,
determined in accordance with Annex E of BS 5228-1:2009+A1:2014.

9.3

Any emergency works carried out under sub-paragraph  (2)(a)  must be notified
to the relevant planning authority within 72 hours of their commencement.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until written details for
that part have been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority.

10.2

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must include—

10.2.a

the means of pollution control;

10.2.b

connection points to existing drainage network with consideration to directing
drainage away from the West Tilbury Main catchment; and

10.2.c

ground raising and effects on the routing of flood waters.

10.3

The details submitted under sub-paragraph (1) must be in accordance with the
conceptual drainage strategy certified under article 38.

10.4

The surface and foul water drainage system for the relevant part of the
authorised development must be constructed and maintained in accordance with
the approved details unless otherwise agreed in writing by the relevant
planning authority.

###### Flood evacuation plan

11

11.1

The undertaker must, prior to the commencement of the authorised development,
put in place a flood evacuation plan for the authorised development. The flood
evacuation plan must be maintained and kept up to date throughout the
operational life of the authorised development and be made available for
inspection by all users of the site and displayed in a visible location at all
times.

11.2

A copy of the flood evacuation plan must be provided to the relevant planning
authority or Thurrock Council acting as lead local flood authority on request.

###### Contaminated land

12

12.1

If contaminated land is found during permitted preliminary works or
construction of the authorised development, no further development can be
carried out in the affected area until an investigation and remediation scheme
has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority; and the
scheme must include details of—

12.1.a

how the contaminated land is to be identified and assessed;

12.1.b

where remediation is required by the scheme, the remediation measures;

12.1.c

timescales for carrying out the remediation measures; and

12.1.d

any ongoing monitoring or mitigation requirements.

12.2

Any remediation measures, monitoring or mitigation requirements identified in
the investigation and remediation scheme mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) must
be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Archaeology

13

13.1

No part of the authorised development with the potential to affect buried
archaeological assets can commence until for that part a written scheme of
archaeological investigation of areas of archaeological interest has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority following
consultation with Historic England.

13.2

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be substantially in
accordance with the outline written scheme of archaeological investigation,
and identify the measures to be taken to investigate, protect, record or
preserve any significant archaeological remains that may be found.

13.3

Any archaeological works carried out under the approved scheme must be carried
out by an organisation registered with the Chartered Institute for
Archaeologists or by a member of that Institute.

13.4

Any archaeological works must be carried out in accordance with the approved
scheme.

###### Landscaping and ecological management plan

14

14.1

No part of the authorised development can commence until a LEMP for that part,
substantially in accordance with the outline ecological management plan and
illustrative landscape plan, including—

14.1.a

where necessary, measures to protect water voles;

14.1.b

ecological mitigation and enhancement measures;

14.1.c

details of all proposed soft landscaping works, including location, number,
species, size and planting density of any proposed planting;

14.1.d

proposed finished ground levels;

14.1.e

details of existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection
during the construction period;

14.1.f

implementation timetables for all ecological and landscaping works; and

14.1.g

maintenance proposals,

has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with Natural England.

14.2

The authorised development, including maintenance, must be carried out in
accordance with the approved LEMP and to a reasonable standard in accordance
with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards or other
recognised codes of good practice.

###### Construction compound restoration

15

15.1

Prior to the completion of construction of Work no.1, the undertaker must
submit a plan to the relevant planning authority for approval detailing how
all of the construction compound areas which do not form part of the permanent
works will be restored, including—

15.1.a

details of the use and condition of the land before it was used as a
construction compound;

15.1.b

proposed finished ground levels;

15.1.c

details of any soft landscaping works to be undertaken as part of the
restoration;

15.1.d

details of any hard landscaping to be undertaken as part of the restoration
including paving, surfacing, gates and fencing; and

15.1.e

implementation timetables for the restoration works.

15.2

The restoration of the construction compounds must be carried out in
accordance with the approved plan.

###### Operational noise

16

16.1

Between 23.00 and 07.00 hours, noise arising from normal operation of the site
may not exceed a rating level of 45 dB L Ar,Tr  at any residential property
which is lawfully inhabited at the date of the making of this Order.

16.2

The level set out in sub-paragraph (1) is to be as measured in accordance with
British Standard 4142:2014+A1:2019 (Methods for rating and assessing
industrial and commercial sound) and British Standard 7445-3:1991 (Description
and measurement of environmental noise. Guide to application to noise limits)
or any standards replacing those.

16.3

Prior to the commencement of the authorised development, the undertaker must
submit a plan to the relevant planning authority for approval detailing how
noise monitoring will be undertaken during construction and within a six month
period beginning with the date of first commercial export of electricity from
Work no. 1A. That plan must specify a monitoring location point, which must be
in as close proximity as the undertaker can lawfully access, or at a point
representative of, the nearest residential property which is lawfully
inhabited at the date of the making of this Order.

16.4

Noise monitoring must be undertaken by the undertaker in accordance with the
plan approved under sub-paragraph (3); and the results of this monitoring must
be submitted by the undertaker to the relevant planning authority at the
intervals set out in the plan.

16.5

Where the results of the monitoring undertaken in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (3) and (4), show any exceedance of the level set out in sub-
paragraph (1), the undertaker must, within 10 working days, submit to the
relevant planning authority for approval a mitigation plan detailing how the
exceedance will be mitigated and including a timetable for carrying out any
works required to deliver such mitigation.

16.6

The undertaker must comply with any plan approved under sub-paragraph (5).

###### Local employment and skills strategy

17

No part of the authorised development can commence until a local employment
and skills strategy, substantially in accordance with the outline local
employment and skills strategy has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

###### Operational hours

18

Work no.1A (the gas fired electricity generating station) may only be operated
for the purposes of generating electricity up to a maximum of 4,000 hours per
calendar year.

###### Details to accord with Environmental Statement

19

Any plans, details, schemes or other documents which require approval by the
discharging authority pursuant to any requirement must comply with the
parameters set out in the Environmental Statement and, where applicable, the
outline plans certified under article 38.

###### Carbon capture readiness

20

Until such time as the authorised development is decommissioned, the
undertaker must not, without the consent of the Secretary of State—

20.a

dispose of any interest in the CCR area; or

20.b

do anything, or allow anything to be done or to occur,

which may reasonably be expected to diminish the undertaker’s ability, within
two years of such action or occurrence, to prepare the carbon capture
readiness land for the installation and operation of carbon capture equipment,
should it be deemed necessary to do so.

###### Carbon capture readiness monitoring report

21

21.1

The undertaker must make a report (‘carbon capture readiness monitoring
report’) to the Secretary of State—

21.1.a

no later than three months from the date of first commercial operation of Work
no.1A (or any first phase thereof); and

21.1.b

within one month of the third anniversary, and each subsequent three year
anniversary, of that date.

21.2

Each carbon capture readiness monitoring report must provide evidence that the
undertaker has complied with requirement 20—

21.2.a

in the case of the first carbon capture readiness monitoring report, since
commencement of the authorised development; and

21.2.b

in the case of any subsequent report, since the making of the previous carbon
capture readiness monitoring report, and explain how the undertaker expects to
continue to comply with requirement 20 over the next three years.

21.3

Each carbon capture readiness monitoring report must state whether the
undertaker considers the retrofit of carbon capture technology is feasible
explaining the reasons for any such conclusion and whether any impediments
could be overcome.

21.4

Each carbon capture readiness monitoring report must state, with reasons,
whether the undertaker has decided to seek any additional regulatory
clearances, or to modify any existing regulatory clearances, in respect of any
carbon capture readiness proposals.

###### Amendments to approved plans, etc.

22

22.1

With respect to any plans, details, schemes or other documents which require
approval by the discharging authority pursuant to any requirement (the
“approved plans”), the undertaker may submit to the discharging authority for
approval any amendments to the approved plans and following any such approval
by the discharging authority the approved plans are to be taken to include the
amendments approved pursuant to this sub-paragraph.

22.2

Approval under sub-paragraph  (1)  must not be given except where it has been
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the discharging authority that the
subject-matter of the approval sought does not give rise to any materially new
or materially different environmental effects to those identified in the
environmental statement.

###### Anticipatory steps

23

If before this Order comes into force the undertaker or any other person has
taken any step in compliance with any requirement in Part 1 of this Schedule,
that step may be taken into account to determine compliance with that
requirement provided that step would have been a valid step for the purpose of
the requirement if it had been taken after this Order came into force.

###### Submissions and approvals

24

24.1

Where, under any requirement, approval of any plans, details, schemes or other
documents is required, the plan, details, scheme or other documents submitted
for approval must be in writing.

24.2

Where under any requirement the approval or agreement of the discharging
authority or another person is required, that approval or agreement must be
provided in writing.

24.3

A copy of any approval or amendment to an approval issued under these
requirements by a discharging authority other than the relevant planning
authority must be copied to the relevant planning authority at the same time
as it is issued to the undertaker.

##### APPROVAL OF MATTERS SPECIFIED IN REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

25

Where an application has been made to the discharging authority for any
agreement or approval required pursuant to a requirement included in this
Order, the discharging authority must give notice to the undertaker of their
decision, including the reasons, on the application, within a period of 13
weeks beginning with—

25.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
discharging authority; or

25.b

such longer period as may be agreed by the undertaker and the discharging
authority.

###### Further information

26

26.1

Where an application has been made under paragraph 25 the discharging
authority has the right to request such reasonable further information from
the undertaker as is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

26.2

If the discharging authority considers further information is needed, and the
requirement does not specify that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, it must, within 21 days of receipt of the application, notify the
undertaker in writing specifying the further information required.

26.3

If the requirement indicates that consultation must take place with a
consultee the discharging authority must issue the consultation to the
requirement consultee within 5 working days of receipt of the application.
Where the consultee requires further information they must notify the
discharging authority in writing specifying the further information required
within 21 days of receipt of the consultation. The discharging authority must
notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further information requested
by the consultee within 5 working days of receipt of such a request.

26.4

In the event that the discharging authority does not give such notification as
specified in sub-paragraph (2) or (3) it is deemed to have sufficient
information to consider the application and is not thereafter entitled to
request further information without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

###### Provision of information by Consultees

27

27.1

Any consultee who receives a consultation under paragraph 26(3) must respond
to that request within 28 days from receipt unless sub paragraph (2) of this
paragraph applies.

27.2

Where any consultee requests further information in accordance with the
timescales set out in paragraph 26(3) then they must respond to the
consultation within 10 working days from the receipt of the further
information requested.

###### Fees

28

28.1

Where an application is made to the discharging authority for agreement or
approval in respect of a requirement the fee for the discharge of conditions
as specified in the Town and Country Planning (Fees for Applications, Deemed
Applications, Requests and Site Visits) (England) Regulations 2012  (or any
regulations replacing the same) is to be paid by the undertaker to the
discharging authority in accordance with these regulations.

28.2

Any fee paid under this Schedule must be refunded to the undertaker within 4
weeks of the application being rejected as invalidly made.

###### Appeal

29

29.1

The undertaker may appeal in the event that—

29.1.a

the discharging authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement or
approval required by a requirement included in this Order or grants it subject
to conditions; or

29.1.b

the discharging authority does not give notice of its decision to the
undertaker within the time period specified in paragraph 25.

29.2

The appeal process is to be as follows—

29.2.a

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
relevant planning authority and any consultee required to be consulted
pursuant to the requirement which is the subject of the appeal (together with
the undertaker, these are the “appeal parties”);

29.2.b

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person (“the appointed person”) to determine
the appeal and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the appointed
person and the address to which all correspondence for their attention should
be sent, the date of such notification being the “start date” for the purposes
of this sub-paragraph (2);

29.2.c

the relevant planning authority and any consultee required to be consulted
pursuant to the requirement which is the subject of the appeal must submit
written representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal
within ten working days of the start date and must ensure that copies of their
written representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on the
day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

29.2.d

the appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within ten working days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph (2)(c); and

29.2.e

the appointed person must make their decision and notify it to the appeal
parties, with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event
within thirty working days of the deadline for the receipt of counter-
submissions pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(d).

29.3

The appointment of the person pursuant to sub-paragraph (2)(b) may be
undertaken by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose
instead of by the Secretary of State.

29.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to consider the appeal, the appointed person must notify the appeal
parties in writing specifying the further information required and the date by
which the information is to be submitted and the appointed person must make
any notification and set the date for the receipt of such further information
having regard to the timescales in sub-paragraph (2).

29.5

Any further information required under sub-paragraph (4) must be provided by
the appeal party from whom the further information was requested to the
appointed person and other appeal parties, the relevant planning authority and
any consultee required to be consulted pursuant to the requirement the subject
of the appeal on the date specified by the appointed person (the “specified
date”), and the appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised
timetable for the appeal on or before that day. The revised timetable for the
appeal must require submission of written representations to the appointed
person within ten working days of the specified date but otherwise is to be in
accordance with the process and time limits set out in sub-paragraphs (2)(c)
to (2)(e).

29.6

On an appeal under this sub-paragraph, the appointed person may—

29.6.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

29.6.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the relevant planning authority
(whether the appeal relates to that part of it or not).

29.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the
relevant time limits.

29.8

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case and may deal with the application as if
it had been made to the appointed person in the first instance.

29.9

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding
on the parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the
decision only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

29.10

If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this article, it
is to be deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Schedule 2 as if it had
been given by the relevant planning authority. The relevant planning authority
may confirm any determination given by the appointed person in identical form
in writing but a failure to give such confirmation (or a failure to give it in
identical form) is not to be taken to affect or invalidate the effect of the
appointed person’s determination.

29.11

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (12) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the relevant planning authority,
the reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

29.12

On application by the relevant planning authority or the undertaker, the
appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and
as to the parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In
considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to
be made, the appointed person must have regard to Planning Practice Guidance:
Appeals (March 2014) or any circular or guidance which may from time to time
replace it.

###### Documents

30

30.1

The undertaker must amend the land plans and special category land plans
(document number A2.2) and the book of reference (document number A4.3) in
order to—

30.1.a

on the land plans and special category land plans, remove the colouring of
plots in ownership of the Port of Tilbury London Limited and RWE; and

30.1.b

in the book of reference delete the plots in the ownership of the Port of
Tilbury London Limited and RWE.

30.2

Under paragraph (1), the plots concerned are—

30.2.a

plots in ownership of the Port of Tilbury London Limited: 01/04, 01/33, 01/35,
01/36, 05/01, 05/02, 05/03, 05/04 and 05/07; and

30.2.b

plots in ownership of RWE: 01/04, 01/11, 01/19, 01/20, 01/21, 01/22, 01/28,
01/30, 01/31, 01/32, 01/34 01/37, 04/01, 04/03 and 04/05.

30.3

The undertaker must submit the land plans and special category land plans and
the book of reference, as amended, to the Secretary of State for approval.

30.4

The undertaker must not commence work under this Order, or exercise any powers
under the Order, until the Secretary of State has given such approval.

  TRAFFIC REGULATION SUSPENSION OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDERS

Article 15

      (1)   Area   (2)   Road name   (3)   Title of Order   (4)   Extent of
suspension     Thurrock Borough Station Road The Borough of Thurrock (Station
Road (Love Lane to Princess Margaret Road) East Tilbury) (Weight Restriction)
Order 1995. Suspended between Love Lane and Princess Margaret Road.

  HIGHWAYS SUBJECT TO TEMPORARY CONTROL OR RESTRICTION

Article 13

      (1)   Area   (2)   Public right of way   (3)   Control or Restriction
Thurrock Borough Station Road within the two areas shown hatched in red on
sheet 3 of the access, rights of way and traffic management plans. Controls on
use including marshalling during construction to allow crossing of the highway
for construction access.   Temporary restriction on all use for up to two
weeks at each location, concurrently or consecutively.   Thurrock Borough
Station Road within the area shown hatched in dark green on sheet 3 of the
access, rights of way and traffic management plans. Controls on use including
temporary restrictions on use and partial carriageway closures with traffic
management to allow construction of new accesses. Thurrock Borough Footpath
through common land connecting Footpath 200 at the location shown hatched in
green on sheet 3 of the access, rights of way and traffic management plans.
Controls on use the footpath where it crosses the pipeline route including
marshalling during construction and operation to allow installation and
maintenance of a gas pipeline.   Temporary restriction on all use and
diversion during construction.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN AND IN WHICH ONLY RIGHTS ETC
MAY BE ACQUIRED

Articles 22 and 28

      (1)   Plot reference number shown on land plans   (2)   Rights over land
which may be acquired   (3)   Relevant part of the authorised development for
which temporary possession for construction can be taken     Land Plans –
Sheet 1 01/09 Right to install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain,
repair and replace electrical cables and associated infrastructure and to take
vehicular access for the same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the
protection of electrical cables and associated infrastructure installed in the
land. Work no.3 01/10 Right to install, use, protect, retain, inspect,
maintain, repair and replace electrical cables and associated infrastructure
and to take vehicular access for the same. Imposition of a restrictive
covenant for the protection of electrical cables and associated infrastructure
installed in the land. Work no.3 01/14 Right of access, including vehicular
access, to create and maintain replacement common land. Work no.14 01/15 Right
to install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace
electrical cables and associated infrastructure and to take vehicular access
for the same.   Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of
electrical cables and associated infrastructure installed in the land.   Work
no.3 01/25 Right to install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair
and replace a gas pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take
vehicular access for the same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the
protection of gas pipeline and associated infrastructure installed in the
land. Work nos.4 and 8 Land Plans – Sheet 2 02/01 Right of access, including
vehicular access, to create and maintain habitat creation and enhancement
land. Work no.2 02/02 Right of access, including vehicular access, to create
and maintain habitat creation and enhancement land. Work no.2 02/04 Right of
access, including vehicular access, to create and maintain replacement common
land. Work no.14 02/08 Right of access, including vehicular access, to create
and maintain replacement common land. Work no.14 02/09 Right of access,
including vehicular access, to create and maintain replacement common land.
Work no.14 02/10 Right of access, including vehicular access, to create and
maintain replacement common land and habitat creation and enhancement land,
and to use, repair, improve or alter existing accesses, tracks, roads or ways.
Work nos.2 and 14 02/11 Right of access, including vehicular access, to create
and maintain replacement common land and habitat creation and enhancement
land, and to use, repair, improve or alter existing accesses, tracks, roads or
ways. Work nos.2 and 14 02/13 Right to install, use, protect, retain, inspect,
maintain, repair and replace a gas pipeline and associated infrastructure, and
to take vehicular access for the same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant
for the protection of gas pipeline and associated infrastructure installed in
the land. Work nos.4 and 8 Land Plans – Sheet 3 03/01 Right to install, use,
protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas pipeline and
associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the same.
Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline and
associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work nos.4 and 8 03/02 Right
to install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/03 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/04 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/05 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/06 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/08 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4 03/09 Right to
install, use, protect, retain, inspect, maintain, repair and replace a gas
pipeline and associated infrastructure, and to take vehicular access for the
same. Imposition of a restrictive covenant for the protection of gas pipeline
and associated infrastructure installed in the land. Work no.4

  LAND OF WHICH ONLY TEMPORARY POSSESION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 28

      (1)   Location   (2)   Plot Reference Number shown on land plans   (3)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken   (4)   Relevant part of
the authorised development     Land Plans – Sheet 3 Road forming public
highway and private road shown coloured yellow on the access, rights of way
and traffic management plans 03/07 To allow a temporary diversion of a public
right of way. Work no.4 Station Road, Public Highway at Station Road, East
Tilbury 03/10 To create a new access from the public highway including
temporary partial closure of the highway and traffic management. Work nos.4
and 5 Land Plans – Sheet 5 Fort Road, public   highway at Fort Road,   Tilbury
05/06 To allow the creation of a new access from the public highway including
temporary partial closure of the highway and traffic management. Work no.15
Fort Road, public   highway at Fort Road,   Tilbury   05/08 To allow the
creation of a new access from the public highway including temporary partial
closure of the highway and traffic management. Work no.15

MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS AND IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Article 22

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply as respects compensation for the compulsory purchase of
land and interests in land.

2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the following modification—

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.5A

If—

2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the Compulsory
Purchase Act 1965 (as modified by paragraph 4(5) of Schedule 7 to the Thurrock
Flexible Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022 (the “Thurrock
Flexible Generation Plant Order”));

2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 (as
substituted by paragraph 4(8) of Schedule 7 to the Thurrock Flexible
Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022) to acquire an interest in the
land; and

2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 4(3) of this
Schedule—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

4.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act and modified by article 26
(application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) to the acquisition of land under
article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory
acquisition of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of
a restrictive covenant under article 22 (compulsory acquisition of rights)—

4.1.a

with the modifications specified in sub-paragraph (2); and

4.1.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

4.2

The modifications referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are as follows: references
in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be read
(according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or
as including references to—

4.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

4.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

4.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

4.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

.

4.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

4.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

4.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

4.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

4.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

4.5

Section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure that,
where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any
right or restriction, as well as the notice of entry required by subsection
(1) of that section (as it applies to a compulsory acquisition), it has power,
exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions,
to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing that
restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry: further notices of
entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified
date), 12 (unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

4.6

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

4.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 26(2) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

4.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

Section 8

############# Introduction

4.8.1

4.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or
part of a house, building or factory and have not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act as applied by article 24
(application of the 1981 Act) of the Thurrock Flexible Generation Plant
Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of the land to which the notice to
treat relates.

4.8.1.2

But see article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only) of the Thurrock Flexible
Generation Plant Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the acquisition
of subsoil only from this Schedule.

4.8.1.3

In this Schedule, “house” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

4.8.2

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“the owner”) may
serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

4.8.3

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

4.8.4

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

4.8.4.a

withdraw the notice to treat;

4.8.4.b

accept the counter-notice; or

4.8.4.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

4.8.5

The authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

4.8.6

If the authority decide to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal they
must do so within the decision period.

4.8.7

If the authority do not serve notice of a decision within the decision period
it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision to withdraw the
notice to treat at the end of that period.

4.8.8

If the authority serve notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

4.8.9

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

4.8.9.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory; or

4.8.9.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

4.8.10

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

4.8.10.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant;

4.8.10.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed; and

4.8.10.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

4.8.11

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 9, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

4.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

4.8.13

4.8.13.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

4.8.13.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

4.8.14

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 36

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory duty in a manner not
less efficient than previously; “apparatus” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker;
in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging
to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas
Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of a water undertaker,
mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that utility
undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a sewerage
undertaker— any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the subject
of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption of
sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage disposal works at
future date) of that Act , and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within
the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “functions” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring
to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to
apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “plan” includes
all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and “utility undertaker” means— any licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within the meaning
of Part 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within the
meaning of Part 2 of the Water Industry Act 1991, for the area of the
authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility
undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### Land not affected by this Part

3

3.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

3.2

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to any apparatus belonging to
National Grid as defined in Part 4 of this Schedule.

###### Apparatus in restricted streets

4

Regardless of the temporary restriction of any highway under the powers
conferred by article 13 (temporary restriction of use of streets), a utility
undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any
such stopped up highway and to execute and do all such works and things in,
upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to
enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or
diversion was in that highway.

###### Acquisition of land

5

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

6

6.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (7) .

6.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

6.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

6.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 42 (arbitration).

6.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 42 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

6.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if the undertaker gives notice
in writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

6.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (6)  authorises the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

7

7.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 42 (arbitration).

7.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

8

8.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph  6(2) , the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

8.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by the utility undertaker for
the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for
securing access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works.

8.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (2)  are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

8.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  1  to  3  and  5  to  7  apply as if the removal of
the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6(2).

8.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

8.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph  (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

8.7

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
10 metres measured in any direction of any electricity apparatus, the plan to
be submitted to the utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be
detailed, include a method statement and describe—

8.7.a

the exact position of the works;

8.7.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

8.7.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

8.7.d

the position of all electricity apparatus; and

8.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to such
apparatus.

###### Expenses and costs

9

9.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph  6(2) .

9.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1) , that
value being calculated after removal.

9.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

9.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

9.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 42(arbitration) to be necessary then,
if such placing involves cost exceeding that which would have been involved if
the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or
at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue
of sub-paragraph  (1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

9.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

9.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

9.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

9.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

10

10.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 6(1) or 6(2) any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility
undertaker, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

10.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

10.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

10.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1) .

10.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

10.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the undertaker has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

11

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph  6(2)  or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  8
, the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

12

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on
the date on which this Order is made.

###### Provision for Anglian Water Services Limited

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule applies to Anglian Water Services
Limited.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER SERVICES LIMITED

1

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

2

In this Part—

“Anglian Water” means Anglian Water Services Limited (company number
02366656); “apparatus” means any works, mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of water supply
and sewerage and any drain works vested in Anglian Water under the Water
Industry Act 1991; any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice
of intention to adopt given under section 102 (4) of the Water Industry Act
1991 or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 of that Act, and includes
a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating
shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any sewer, drain, or works
(within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) and any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “alternative apparatus” means alternative apparatus adequate to
enable Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in not less efficient a
manner than previously; “functions” includes powers and duties; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and
“plan” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method statements.

3

The undertaker may not interfere with, build over or near to any apparatus
within the Order limits or execute the placing, installation, bedding,
packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any
filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within
the standard protection strips which are the strips of land falling the
following distances to either side of the medial line of any relevant pipe or
apparatus; 2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150
millimetres, 3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450
millimetres and 6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750
millimetres unless otherwise agreed in writing with Anglian Water, such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and such provision being
brought to the attention of any agent or contractor responsible for carrying
out any work on behalf of the undertaker.

4

The alteration, extension, removal or re-location of any apparatus may not be
implemented until–—

4.a

any requirement for any permits under the part 2 of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 or other legislation and any
other associated consents are obtained, and any approval or agreement required
from Anglian Water on alternative outfall locations as a result of such re-
location are approved, such approvals from Anglian Water not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed; and

4.b

the undertaker has made the appropriate application required under the Water
Industry Act 1991 together with a plan and section of the works proposed and
Anglian Water has agreed all of the contractual documentation required under
the Water Industry Act 1991, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and such works to be executed only in accordance with the plan,
section and description submitted and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made by Anglian Water for the alteration or otherwise
for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it.

5

In the situation, where in exercise of the powers conferred by the Order, the
undertaker acquired any interest in any land in which apparatus is placed and
such apparatus is to be relocated, extended, removed or altered in any way no
alteration or extension may take place until Anglian Water has established to
its reasonable satisfaction, contingency arrangements in order to conduct its
functions for the duration of the works to relocate, extend, remove or alter
the apparatus.

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on any plan, the
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement, and
before extinguishing any existing rights for Anglian Water to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain its apparatus in the Order land, the undertaker
will, with the agreement of Anglian Water, create a new right to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain the apparatus that is reasonably convenient for
Anglian Water such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and
to be subject to arbitration under article 42(arbitration).

7

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed the undertaker must provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable Anglian
Water to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible
before such obstruction.

8

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order,
previously unmapped sewers, lateral drains or other apparatus are identified
by the undertaker, notification of the location of such assets will
immediately be given to Anglian Water and afforded the same protection of
other Anglian Water assets.

9

If for any reason or in consequence of the construction of any of the works
referred to in paragraphs (4) to (6) and (8) above any damage is caused to any
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works) or
property of Anglian Water, or there is any interruption in any service
provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker
must—

9.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good any
damage or restoring the supply; and

9.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by Anglian Water, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage interruption.

10

Notwithstanding the provisions of article 16(2), for any sewer or drain which
forms part of the statutory undertaking of Anglian Water, any dispute will not
be treated as a dispute under s106 of the Water Industry Act 1991, but will be
settled by arbitration in accordance with article 42 (arbitration).

11

Where the detailed design for any part of the authorised development includes
any proposal to interact with, connect to or interfere with any asset
belonging to Anglian Water, the undertaker must consult Anglian Water on the
proposed design before it is submitted for approval under requirement 4 of
Schedule 2. The undertaker must have regard to any response to consultation
provided by Anglian Water and must include a copy of any response within the
submission seeking approval of the detailed design.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“the 2003 Act” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “electronic communications
apparatus” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code; “the
electronic communications code” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2
of the 2003 Act; “electronic communications code network” means— so much of an
electronic communications network or infrastructure system provided by an
electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 (application of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide; “electronic communications code operator” means a person
in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a direction
under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “infrastructure system” has the same
meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to providing
an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with paragraph 7
(infrastructure system) of that code; and “operator” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

3

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 30 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as a result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from the
authorised development—

4.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

4.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

4.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

4.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, the
undertaker has the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

4.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
42 (arbitration).

5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

1

The following provisions apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

2

In this part of this Schedule—

“the Agency” means the Environment Agency; “construction” includes executing,
placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and excavating and
“construct” and “constructed” are to be construed accordingly; “drainage work”
means (i) any main river and includes any land which provides or is expected
to provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank, wall,
embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for land
drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring and (ii) any sea defence;
“fishery” means any waters containing fish and fish in, or migrating to or
from, such waters and the spawn, spawning ground, habitat or food of such
fish; “main river” means all watercourses shown as such on the statutory main
river maps held by the Agency and the Department for Environment Food and
Rural Affairs including any structure or appliance for controlling or
regulating the flow of water in or out of the channel; “plans” includes
sections, drawings, specifications, calculations and method statements; “sea
defence” means any bank, wall, embankment (and any berm, counterwall or cross-
wall connected to any such bank, wall or embankment), barrier, tidal sluice
and other defence, whether natural or artificial, against the inundation of
land by sea water or tidal water, including natural or artificial high ground
which forms part of or makes a contribution to the efficiency of the defences
of the Agency’s area against flooding, but excludes any sea defence works
which are for the time being maintained by a coast protection authority under
the provisions of the Coast Protection Act 1949 or by any local authority or
any navigation, harbour or conservancy authority; “specified work” means— so
much of any work or operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under,
over or within 8 metres of a main river or is otherwise likely to— affect any
drainage work or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from
any drainage work; affect the flow, purity or quality of water in any
watercourse or other surface waters or ground water; cause obstruction to the
free passage of fish or damage to any fishery; affect the conservation,
distribution or use of water resources; or affect the conservation value of
the main river and habitats in its immediate vicinity; so much of any work or
operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within 16
metres of a sea defence which is likely to endanger the stability of, cause
damage to or reduce the effectiveness of that sea defence, or interfere with
the Agency’s access to or along that sea defence; and “watercourse” includes
all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, basins,
sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer.

3

3.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the Agency plans of the specified work and such further particulars
available to it as the Agency may within 28 days of the receipt of the plans
reasonably request.

3.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the Agency, or determined under
paragraph 12.

3.3

Any approval of the Agency required under this paragraph—

3.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

3.3.b

is deemed to have been refused if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if
such particulars have been requested by the Agency for approval; and

3.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the Agency may have
for the protection of any drainage work or the fishery or for the protection
of water resources, or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the
discharge of its environmental duties.

3.4

The Agency must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission of
any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph
(3)(b).

3.5

If the Agency refuses any approval required under this paragraph then the
refusal must be accompanied by a statement of the grounds for refusal.

4

Without limiting paragraph 3 but subject always to the provisions of that
paragraph as to reasonableness, the requirements which the Agency may have
under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker, at its own
expense, to construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent,
before or during the construction of the specified works (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

4.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

4.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the Agency under paragraph 3, must be constructed—

5.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or settled
under this Part of this Schedule; and

5.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency,

and the Agency is entitled by its officer to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

5.2

The undertaker must give to the Agency not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

5.3

If the Agency reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct all or part
of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the construction of
the specified work to which the protective works relate.

5.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the Agency
is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule, the Agency may by notice in writing require the undertaker
at the undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this part
of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in writing
consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove,
alter or pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the
site to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the
Agency reasonably requires.

5.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is
served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to
comply with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made
reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may
execute the works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably
incurred by the Agency in so doing is recoverable from the undertaker.

5.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the Agency must not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 12.

6

6.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified works maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the Order
Land and on land possessed by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

6.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the undertaker to repair and restore the work, or
any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the work and restore the site to its former condition, to such extent
and within such limits as the Agency reasonably requires.

6.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in respect of any
drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (2) on the undertaker, the
undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the requirements of
the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress
towards their implementation, the Agency may do what is reasonably necessary
for such compliance and any reasonable expenditure incurred by the Agency in
so doing are recoverable from the undertaker.

6.4

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with these protective
provisions the Agency may serve written notice requiring the undertaker to
cease all or part of the specified works and the undertaker must cease the
specified works or part thereof until it has obtained the consent or complied
with the condition unless the cessation of the specified works or part thereof
would cause greater damage than compliance with the written notice.

6.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the Agency must not, except in the case
of an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3) until the
dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 12.

6.6

This paragraph does not apply to—

6.6.a

drainage works which are vested in the Agency, or which the Agency or another
person is liable to maintain and is not proscribed by the powers of the Order
from doing so; and

6.6.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7

If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of
any such work, the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes
is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, such impairment or
damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Agency and if the undertaker fails to do so, the Agency may make good the
impairment or damage and recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by the
Agency in so doing from the undertaker.

8

If by reason of construction of a specified work the Agency’s access to flood
defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is materially
obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of access that
will allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the equipment no
less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within 24 hours of
the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

9

9.1

The undertaker must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in a fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

9.2

If by reason of—

9.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

9.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to a fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the undertaker requiring
it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good the
damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage.

9.3

If within such time as may be reasonably practicable for that purpose after
the receipt of written notice from the Agency of any damage or expected damage
to a fishery, the undertaker fails to take such steps as are described in sub-
paragraph (2), the Agency may take those steps and any expenditure incurred by
the Agency in so doing are recoverable from the undertaker.

9.4

Subject to paragraph 11, in any case where immediate action by the Agency is
reasonably required in an emergency in order to secure that the risk of damage
to the fishery is avoided or reduced, the Agency may take such steps as are
reasonable for the purpose, and may recover from the undertaker any
expenditure incurred in so doing provided that notice specifying those steps
is served on the undertaker as soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency
has taken, or commenced to take, the steps specified in the notice.

10

The undertaker shall indemnify the Agency in respect of all costs, charges and
expenses which the Agency may incur—

10.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Schedule;

10.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the Agency under this Part of this Schedule; and

10.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the Agency which are reasonably
required in connection with the construction of the specified works.

11

11.1

The undertaker is responsible for and shall indemnify the Agency against all
costs and losses not otherwise provided for in this Schedule which may be
incurred or suffered by the Agency by reason of—

11.1.a

the construction, operation or maintenance of any specified works comprised
within the authorised works or the failure of any such works comprised within
them; or

11.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction, operation or maintenance of the
authorised works or dealing with any failure of the authorised works.

11.2

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph (1)—

“costs” includes—expenses and charges; staff costs and overheads; and legal
costs; and “losses” includes physical damage.

11.3

The undertaker shall indemnify the Agency against all liabilities, claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with the authorised works or otherwise
out of the matters referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (b).

11.4

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph (3)—

“claims” and “demands” include as applicable— costs (within the meaning of
sub-paragraph (2)) incurred in connection with any claim or demand; any
interest element of sums claimed or demanded; “liabilities” includes—
contractual liabilities; tortious liabilities (including liabilities for
negligence or nuisance); liabilities to pay statutory compensation or for
breach of statutory duty; and liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed
on the basis of strict liability (but does not include liabilities to pay
other statutory penalties).

11.5

The Agency must give to the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such
claim or demand as is referred to in sub-paragraph (3) as soon as reasonably
practicable after it becomes aware of such claim or demand, and no settlement
or compromise of any such claim or demand is to be made without the prior
agreement of the Undertaker which agreement may not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

11.6

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the Undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the Agency, or to its satisfaction, or in
accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the
Undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule.

11.7

Nothing in this paragraph imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect
to any costs, charges, expenses, damages, claims, demands or losses to the
extent that they are attributable to the neglect or default of the Agency, its
officers, servants, contractors or agents.

12

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this part of
this Schedule will, be determined by arbitration under article 42
(arbitration) unless otherwise agreed in writing by the undertaker and the
Agency.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY AND GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

1

1.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

1.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 8 (consent to transfer
benefit of Order)—

1.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in subparagraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

1.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

1.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“1991 Act” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “alternative
apparatus” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the satisfaction of
National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously; “apparatus” means— any electric
lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 , belonging
to or maintained by National Grid; any mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the purposes of gas supply;
together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed
pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for
the purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any
structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give
access to apparatus; “authorised works” has the same meaning as is given to
the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order and includes
any associated development authorised by the Order and for the purposes of
this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the authorised
works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule; “commence”
and “commencement” in this Part of this Schedule shall include any below
ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the receipt and erection
of construction plant and equipment; “deed of consent” means a deed of
consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed
between the parties acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing
easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so as to secure
land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and
use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this
Schedule; “functions” includes powers and duties; “ground mitigation scheme”
means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground
subsidence event; “ground monitoring scheme” means a scheme for monitoring
ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such
monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground
levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and
the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, shall require the
undertaker to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground mitigation scheme;
“ground subsidence event” means any ground subsidence identified by the
monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has
exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a
ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and
“maintenance” shall include the ability and right to do any of the following
in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of National Grid
including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus; “National Grid” means— National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc
(company number 2366977) whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London,
WC2N 5EH or any successor as a licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Electricity Act 1989; and National Grid Gas plc (company number 02006000)
whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as
a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 ; “plan” or
“plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; “specified works” means any of the authorised works or
activities undertaken in association with the authorised works which— will or
may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 7(2) or otherwise; and/or may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 7(2) or otherwise; and/or includes any of the activities that are
referred to in paragraph 8 of T/SP/SSW/22 (National Grid’s policies for safe
working in proximity to gas apparatus, “Specification for safe working in the
vicinity of National Grid, High Pressure Gas pipelines and associated
installations- requirements for third parties” and/or activity that is
referred to in National Grid’s document “Development near overhead lines” and
the Health and Safety Executive’s (HSE) Guidance Note GS6 “Avoiding Danger
from Overhead Power Lines”; “undertaker” means the undertaker as defined in
article 2(1) of this Order.

###### On Street Apparatus

3

Except for paragraphs 4 (Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily
restricted streets), 8 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity
undertaker), 9 (retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker), and 10
(expenses) of this Schedule which will apply in respect of the exercise of all
or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National
Grid, the other provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in
respect of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of statutory undertakers in temporarily restricted streets

4

Despite the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under article 13
(temporary restriction of use of streets), National Grid may at all times take
all necessary access across any such highway and execute and do all such works
and things in, on or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the
restriction or diversion was in that highway.

###### Acquisition of land

5

5.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not (a)
appropriate or acquire or take temporary possession of any land or apparatus
or (b) appropriate, acquire, extinguish, interfere with or override any
easement, other interest or right and/or apparatus of National Grid otherwise
than by agreement (such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld).

5.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised works.

5.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including but not
limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation
and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement,
rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by
National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right
or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this
Schedule shall prevail.

5.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 8 or 9 or
any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

6

6.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5).

6.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), secure any necessary consents for the alternative
apparatus and afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction (taking
into account paragraph 7(1) below) the necessary facilities and rights—

6.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

6.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

6.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation shall not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

6.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

6.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to a written diversion agreement
having been entered into between the parties and the grant to National Grid of
any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

7

7.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

7.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities
and rights are subject the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance
with paragraph 14 ( Arbitration ) of this Part of this Schedule and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

8

8.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

8.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and
describe—

8.2.a

the exact position of the works;

8.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

8.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

8.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

8.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

8.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

8.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

8.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

8.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

8.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

8.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

8.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

8.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

8.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

8.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

8.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of at least 26 tonnes in weight.

8.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

8.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (4)—

8.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

8.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

8.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

8.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

8.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grids’ satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any authorised development (or any relevant part thereof) for which
protective works are required and National Grid must give notice of its
requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

8.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 5 to 7 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6(2).

8.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised development, a new plan, instead of the plan
previously submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph
shall apply to and in respect of the new plan.

8.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8)
insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with sub-
paragraph (12) at all times.

8.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of Danger from
Overhead Lines”.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

9

9.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

9.2

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include
a method statement and describe—

9.2.a

the exact position of the works;

9.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

9.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

9.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

9.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

9.3

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

9.4

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)—

9.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5) or (7); and,

9.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

9.5

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

9.6

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (1) or (2) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub paragraph
(5), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

9.7

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grid’s’ satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified
works for which protective works are required and National Grid must give
notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of
submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

9.8

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 5 to 7 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 6(2).

9.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

9.10

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7)
insofar as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and comply with sub-
paragraph (11) at all times.

9.11

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order the
undertaker must comply with National Grid’s policies for safe working in
proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of
National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation
requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and HSE’s “HS(~G)47 Avoiding Danger
from underground services”.

9.12

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that National Grid retains the right
to carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 10.

###### Expenses

10

10.1

Save where otherwise agreed in writing between National Grid and the
undertaker and subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the
undertaker must pay to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised
invoice or claim from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably
and properly incurred by National Grid in, or in connection with, the
inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any
apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be
required in consequence of the execution of any authorised works including
without limitation —

10.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid;

10.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 6(3); or

10.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

10.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

10.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

10.1.d

the approval of plans;

10.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

10.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

10.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 14 ( Arbitration ) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Enactments and agreements

11

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between National Grid and the undertaker,
nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

12

12.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 6(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 8 or 9, the undertaker
must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

12.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever National Grid’s consent, agreement or
approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

13

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 5(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

14

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 6(2), 6(4), 7(1), 8
and 9 any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 42 ( arbitration ).

###### Notices

15

Notwithstanding article 39 ( service of notices ), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to this Part must be sent to Plant
Protection at plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such other address as
National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and
notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NETWORK RAIL

###### Part to have effect unless otherwise agreed

1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail, and, in the case of
paragraph 15, any other person on whom rights or obligations are conferred by
that paragraph.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“construction” includes execution, placing, alteration and reconstruction and
“construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings; “the engineer”
means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;
“network licence” means the network licence, as the same is amended from time
to time, granted to Network Rail by the Secretary of State in exercise of his
powers under section 8 of the Railways Act 1993 ; “Network Rail” has the same
meaning as given in Schedule 2, Part 1 of this Order; “plans” includes
sections, designs, design data, software, drawings, specifications, soil
reports, calculations, descriptions (including descriptions of methods of
construction), staging proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing
and duration of any proposed occupation of railway property; “promoter” means
the undertaker as defined in article 2 (interpretation) of this Order;
“railway operational procedures” means procedures specified under any access
agreement (as defined in the Railways Act 1993) or station lease; “railway
property” means any railway belonging to Network Rail within the Order limits
and— any station, land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to Network
Rail or connected with any such railway; and any easement or other property
interest held or used by Network Rail for the purposes of such railway or
works, apparatus or equipment; and “specified work” means so much of any of
the authorised development as is situated upon, across, under, over or within
15 metres of, or may in any way adversely affect, railway property.

3

3.1

Where under this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its consent or
approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is subject to the
condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway operational
procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under statute.

3.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

3.2.a

co-operate with the promoter with a view to avoiding undue delay and securing
conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and requirements
emanating from those procedures; and

3.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

4

4.1

The promoter must not exercise the powers conferred by—

4.1.a

article 16 (discharge of water);

4.1.b

article 17 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

4.1.c

article 19 (compulsory acquisition of land);

4.1.d

article 22 (compulsory acquisition of rights);

4.1.e

article 25 (acquisition of subsoil only);

4.1.f

article 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development);

4.1.g

article 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development);

4.1.h

article 30 (statutory undertakers);

4.1.i

article 35 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows);

4.1.j

or the powers conferred by section 11(3) of the 1965 Act,

in respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with
the consent of Network Rail.

4.2

The promoter must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

4.3

The promoter must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272 of
the 1990 Act, or article 30 (statutory undertakers), in relation to any right
of access of Network Rail to railway property, but such right of access may be
diverted with the consent of Network Rail.

4.4

The promoter must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or acquire
new rights over any railway property except with the consent of Network Rail.

4.5

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions.

5

5.1

The promoter must, before commencing construction of any specified work supply
to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the reasonable
approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be commenced except
in accordance with such plans as have been approved in writing by the engineer
or settled by arbitration.

5.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated his disapproval of those plans and the grounds of his disapproval
the promoter may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the engineer
to intimate his approval or disapproval within a further period of 28 days
beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice from
the promoter. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has not
intimated his approval or disapproval, he is deemed to have approved the plans
as submitted.

5.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the promoter that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the promoter desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
with all reasonable dispatch on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction
of the promoter in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the promoter.

5.4

When signifying his approval of the plans the engineer may specify any
protective works (whether temporary or permanent) which in his opinion should
be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a specified work
to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the continuation of
safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail or the services
of operators using the same (including any relocation de-commissioning and
removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a specified work and
the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by the specified
works), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary for those
purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the promoter, if Network
Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at the expense
of the promoter in either case with all reasonable dispatch and the promoter
must not commence the construction of the specified works until the engineer
has notified the promoter that the protective works have been completed to his
reasonable satisfaction.

6

6.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 5(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

6.1.a

with all reasonable dispatch in accordance with the plans approved or deemed
to have been approved or settled under paragraph 5;

6.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

6.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

6.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

6.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction is
caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction of a
specified work, the promoter must, notwithstanding any such approval, make
good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which
Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may sustain by
reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

6.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the promoter
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the promoter or its servants, contractors or
agents.

7

The promoter must—

7.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

7.b

supply the engineer with all such information as he may reasonably require
with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

8

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the promoter
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part of this Schedule during their construction and must supply the promoter
with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works
or the method of constructing them.

9

9.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified work,
or during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work in order to
ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe operation of the
railway of Network Rail, such alterations and additions may be carried out by
Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the promoter reasonable notice of
its intention to carry out such alterations or additions (which must be
specified in the notice), the promoter must pay to Network Rail the reasonable
cost of those alterations or additions including, in respect of any such
alterations and additions as are to be permanent, a capitalised sum
representing the increase of the costs which may be expected to be reasonably
incurred by Network Rail in maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing
any such alterations or additions.

9.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the promoter, Network Rail
gives notice to the promoter that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the promoter decides that part of the
specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction of
that part of the specified work and the promoter must, notwithstanding any
such approval of a specified work under paragraph 5(3), pay to Network Rail
all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation for
any loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of
that specified work.

9.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 10(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the promoter may reasonably require.

9.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
promoter to Network Rail under this paragraph.

10

The promoter must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

10.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the promoter as
provided by paragraph 5(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 5(4) including, in respect of any permanent protective
works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and renewing
those works;

10.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the promoter
and the supervision by him of the construction of a specified work;

10.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signalmen, watchmen and other persons whom it is reasonably necessary to
appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway property and
for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable, interference,
obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or failure of a
specified work;

10.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution of diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

10.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

11

11.1

In this paragraph—

11.1.a

“EMI” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and

11.1.b

“Network Rail’s apparatus” means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or
equipment (whether or not modified or installed as part of the authorised
development) which are owned or used by Network Rail for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic,
telephonic, electric, electronic or other like means of signalling or other
communications.

11.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 5(1) for the relevant part of the authorised
development giving rise to EMI (unless the promoter has been given notice in
writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to make such
change).

11.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the promoter must in the design and construction
of the authorised development take all measures necessary to prevent EMI and
must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting reasonably) appropriate
arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

11.4

In order to facilitate the promoter’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)—

11.4.a

the promoter must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably practicable
to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of EMI, and
thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before and after
formal submission of plans under paragraph 5(1)) in order to identify all
potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate them;

11.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the promoter all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the promoter in respect of
Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

11.4.c

Network Rail must allow the promoter reasonable facilities for the inspection
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a).

11.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 5(1) have effect subject to the sub-paragraph.

11.6

If at any time prior to the commencement of regular revenue-earning operations
comprised in the authorised development and notwithstanding any measures
adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), the testing or commissioning of the
authorised development causes EMI then the promoter must immediately upon
receipt of notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or
communicated orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as
soon as reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to
use (or procure the cessation of use of) the promoter’s apparatus causing such
EMI until all measures necessary have been taken to remedy such EMI by way of
modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and subject
to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph (5)) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

11.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

11.7.a

the promoter must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the promoter’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

11.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the promoter for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI; and

11.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the promoter any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the promoter in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI.

11.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to subparagraphs (5) or (6)—

11.8.a

Network Rail must allow the promoter reasonable facilities for the inspection
of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

11.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the promoter in accordance
with paragraph 6.

11.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
15(1) applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses suffered
by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this paragraph
(including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of proposals,
approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access
to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which
subparagraph (6) applies.

11.10

For the purpose of paragraph 10(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph is deemed to be protective works referred to in
that paragraph.

12

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the promoter informing it
that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to be
such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the promoter
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

13

The promoter must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

14

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the promoter, be repaid by the
promoter to Network Rail.

15

15.1

The promoter must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule (subject
to article 40 (no double recovery)) which may be occasioned to or reasonably
incurred by Network Rail—

15.1.a

by reason of the construction or maintenance of a specified work or the
failure thereof; or

15.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the promoter or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work,

and the promoter must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission: and the fact that any act
or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of the promoter or in
accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in accordance with any
requirement of the engineer or under his supervision does not (if it was done
without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in its employ
or of its contractors or agents) excuse the promoter from any liability under
the provisions of this sub-paragraph.

15.2

Network Rail must give the promoter reasonable written notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand is
to be made without the prior consent of the promoter.

15.3

The sums payable by the promoter under sub-paragraph (1) may if relevant
include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

15.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

15.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
is, in the event of default, enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub-paragraph (4).

15.6

In this paragraph—

“the relevant costs” means the costs, direct losses and expenses (including
loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence
of any restriction of the use of Network Rail’s railway network as a result of
the construction, maintenance or failure of a specified work or any such act
or omission as mentioned in subparagraph (1); and “train operator” means any
person who is authorised to act as the operator of a train by a licence under
section 8 of the Railways Act 1993.

16

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the promoter, from time to
time provide the promoter free of charge with written estimates of the costs,
charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the promoter is or will
become liable under this Schedule (including the amount of the relevant costs
mentioned in paragraph 15) and with such information as may reasonably enable
the promoter to assess the reasonableness of any such estimate or claim made
or to be made pursuant to this Schedule (including any claim relating to those
relevant costs).

17

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part of this
Schedule there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed
that is attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by
Network Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was
taken or entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by
the promoter under this Schedule or increasing the sums so payable.

18

The promoter and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the promoter of—

18.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

18.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

18.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

19

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I of the Railways Act
1993.

20

The promoter must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the promoter for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 8 (Consent to transfer of benefit of Order) of this Order and
any such notice must be given no later than 28 days before any such
application is made and must describe or give (as appropriate)—

20.a

the nature of the application to be made;

20.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

20.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

21

The promoter must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans submitted
to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with article 38
(certification of plans etc.) are certified by the Secretary of State, provide
a set of those plans to Network Rail in the form of a computer disc with read
only memory.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF PORT OF TILBURY LONDON LIMITED

1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Port of Tilbury London Limited.

2

In this Part of this Schedule

“the affected highways” means the A1089 St Andrews Road, Ferry Road, Fort Road
and the unnamed link road between Fort Road and the A1089 St Andrews Road;
“plans” includes sections, descriptions, drawings, specifications, proposed
method statements, traffic management measures, vehicle movement profiles and
hydraulic information including, but not limited to, information as to the
intended discharge of water and materials within the Port; “the Port” means
any land (including land covered by water) within the Port of Tilbury which is
owned or used by Port of Tilbury London Limited as at the date of the Order,
and specifically including the private highways and access roads within the
Port, and includes the Work no.15 land; “specified work” means any work,
activity or operation authorised by this Order and their associated traffic
movements which may affect— the Port; access to and from premises within the
Port; streets within the Port; navigation within the Port; and the functions
of Port of Tilbury London Limited as the statutory harbour authority for the
port; and specifically includes, but is not limited to, the exercise of the
powers conferred by articles 3 (Development consent etc. granted by the
Order), 11 (Street works), 12 (Application of the 1991 Act), 13 (Temporary
restriction of use of streets), 14 (Access to works), 15 (Traffic regulation),
16 (Discharge of water), and 35 (Felling or lopping of trees and removal of
hedgerows) of the Order; and “street” has the same meaning as in the 1991 Act.

3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by articles 17
(authority to survey and investigate the land), 19 (compulsory acquisition of
land), 22 (compulsory acquisition of rights), 25 (acquisition of subsoil
only), 27 (rights under or over streets), 28 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development), 29 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) and 30 (statutory undertakers) in
respect of the Port unless the exercise of such powers is with the consent of
Port of Tilbury London Limited, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.

4

4.1

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to the Port, unless preventing such
access is with the consent of Port of Tilbury London Limited.

4.2

The undertaker must notify Port of Tilbury London Limited prior to exercising
its powers conferred by articles 11 (street works) or 13 (temporary
restriction of use of streets) in respect of any of the affected highways.
Notification under this sub-paragraph will be effected by the undertaker
sending to Port of Tilbury London Limited a copy of the documents seeking
consent to or approval of the works or measures under those articles at the
time as they are submitted to the relevant street authority for such consent
or approval. The undertaker must also forward to Port of Tilbury London
Limited a copy of any response received by the undertaker from the relevant
street authority in response to any such submission for consent or approval
under those articles.

4.3

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order the undertaker must not
acquire any land interest or apparatus under articles 17, 18, 19, 22, 25, 27,
28, 29 or 30 enter on any land, acquire any land interest or apparatus or
override any easement or other interest of Port of Tilbury London Limited
otherwise than by agreement.

4.4

Articles 20 and 23 do not apply to the Port and any interests or rights held
by Port of Tilbury London Limited unless otherwise agreed by Port of Tilbury
London Limited, acting reasonably.

4.5

Regardless of any provision in this Order and in particular article 37
(Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act), no part of the Port or
streets within the Port will become operational land of the undertaker, and
nothing under this Order will affect the status of the land in so far as it
forms operational land of Port of Tilbury London Limited.

4.6

Article 41 (Application of landlord and tenant law) does not apply to any
agreement entered into between the undertaker and Port of Tilbury London
Limited in relation to the authorised development and/or the Port.

4.7

In so far as it applies within the Port, the Applicant may not transfer the
benefit of the Order under article 8 (Consent to transfer benefit of Order),
without the consent of Port of Tilbury London Limited, which consent may not
be unreasonably withheld.

5

5.1

At least 56 days before commencing the carrying out or maintenance of any
specified work, the undertaker must submit to Port of Tilbury London Limited
plans of that work for its approval.

5.2

Any approval of Port of Tilbury London Limited under this paragraph—

5.2.a

must not be unreasonably withheld;

5.2.b

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements, conditions or
restrictions as Port of Tilbury London Limited may make for the protection of
the Port and navigation within the Port, including a requirement for the
undertaker to carry out protective works at its own expense; and

5.2.c

must not restrict the powers granted to the undertaker by this Order where
such powers do not affect the Port.

5.3

The undertaker must carry out any specified work and any protective works
required under sub-paragraph (2)(b) in accordance with the plans approved
under sub-paragraph (1) or settled under paragraph 14 of this Part of this
Schedule.

5.4

The undertaker must inform Port of Tilbury London Limited in writing of the
intended start date and the likely duration of the carrying out of any
specified work at least 30 working days prior to the commencement of the
specified work.

6

In exercising the powers conferred by the Order in relation to the affected
highways or any street through the Port, the undertaker must have regard to
the potential disruption, delay or congestion of traffic which may be caused,
and seek to minimise such disruption, delay or congestion so far as is
reasonably practicable. The undertaker must not at any time prevent or
unreasonably impede access by emergency services vehicles to the Port.

7

7.1

Where the undertaker carries out any works to any street within the Port it
must make good any defects in those works notified to it by Port of Tilbury
London Limited within the period of three months after the date of its removal
from occupation of that area of street.

7.2

The undertaker may, at its sole discretion and in place of carrying out any
works to remedy any defects under sub-paragraph (1), pay to Port of Tilbury
London Limited a sum equal to the cost to Port of Tilbury London Limited of
carrying out the required works as calculated by Port of Tilbury London
Limited, acting reasonably.

7.3

Where any event or accident on or affecting any road, street, way or the river
Thames, prevents or obstructs access into, out of or within the Port, which
event or accident is caused by or attributable to the undertaker, its agents
or contractors, or which requires the removal of any item, vessel or vehicle
which is preventing or obstructing access and which is owned by, contracted to
or otherwise being used on behalf of the undertaker, the undertaker must use
its best endeavours to reinstate access or remove the obstruction as soon as
practicable.

7.4

Port of Tilbury London Limited may, where an obstruction has occurred and has
not been removed by the undertaker on request by Port of Tilbury London
Limited, remove the obstruction itself and repair any damage caused by the
event or accident causing the obstruction.

8

Any person duly appointed by Port of Tilbury London Limited for this purpose
may at all reasonable times, on giving to the undertaker such notice as may in
the circumstances be reasonable, enter upon and inspect any part of a
specified work; and the undertaker must give to such person all reasonable
facilities for such inspection and, if the duly appointed person is of the
opinion that the construction of the work poses danger to any property of the
Port or person within the Port, the undertaker must adopt such measures and
precautions as may be reasonably practicable for the purpose of preventing any
damage or injury.

9

9.1

Port of Tilbury London Limited may at any time close the Port and exclude
access by the undertaker (including access under any power granted by this
Order, under any access right howsoever acquired and as provided for in any
agreement between the undertaker and Port of Tilbury London Limited) where
Port of Tilbury London Limited reasonably considers that it is necessary to do
so in response to a request from an emergency service or government agency,
any emergency or accident, or an imminent threat to the health or safety of
persons or of damage to property.

9.2

Port of Tilbury London Limited must inform the undertaker of any closure of
the Port as soon as reasonably practicable, including details of the location
and extent of the closure and where known, the anticipated duration of the
closure.

10

10.1

The undertaker is to be responsible for, and must make good to Port of Tilbury
London Limited all losses, costs, charges, damages, expenses, claims and
demands however caused, which may reasonably be incurred or occasioned to Port
of Tilbury London Limited by reason or arising in connection with—

10.1.a

the perusal of plans of any specified work, and the inspection of a specified
work;

10.1.b

where the undertaker has not reinstated access or removed an obstruction the
costs, expenses and losses of Port of Tilbury London Limited incurred in
removing the obstruction itself and repairing any damage caused by the event
or accident causing the obstruction;

10.1.c

the construction, maintenance or failure of a specified work, or damage to the
Port arising from such construction, maintenance or failure, including but not
limited to—

10.1.c.i

Not used ;

10.1.c.ii

damage to any, street, plant, equipment or building belonging to Port of
Tilbury London Limited that is caused by the construction, maintenance or
failure of a specified work; and

10.1.c.iii

any act or omission of the undertaker or its servants and agents while engaged
in the construction, maintenance or use of a specified work.

10.2

Without limiting the generality of sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker must
indemnify Port of Tilbury London Limited from and against all claims and
demands arising out of, or in connection with, such construction, maintenance
or failure or act or omission as is mentioned in that sub-paragraph.

10.3

Nothing in this paragraph imposes any liability on the undertaker to the
extent that any losses, costs, charges, damages, expenses, claims or demands
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are attributable to negligence on the part of
Port of Tilbury London Limited or of any person in its employ or of its
contractors.

10.4

Port of Tilbury London Limited must give to the undertaker notice in writing
of any claim or demand for which the undertaker may be liable under this
paragraph and no settlement or compromise of any such claim or demand may be
made without the consent in writing of the undertaker.

11

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done with the consent of
Port of Tilbury London Limited and in accordance with any conditions or
restrictions prescribed by Port of Tilbury London Limited or in accordance
with any plans approved or deemed to be approved by Port of Tilbury London
Limited under this Part of this Schedule or under Schedule 2 to this Order or
to its satisfaction or in accordance with any directions or award of any
arbitrator does not relieve the undertaker from any liability under the
provisions of this Part.

12

Save to the extent expressly provided for nothing in this Order affects
prejudicially any statutory or other rights, powers or privileges vested in,
or enjoyed by, Port of Tilbury London Limited at the date of this Order coming
into force.

13

With the exception of any duty owed by Port of Tilbury London Limited to the
undertaker, nothing in this Order is to be construed as imposing upon Port of
Tilbury London Limited any duty or liability to which Port of Tilbury London
Limited would not otherwise be subject.

14

14.1

Any difference arising between the undertaker and Port of Tilbury London
Limited under this Part of this Schedule (other than any difference as to the
meaning or construction of this Part of this Schedule) will be resolved by
expert determination.

14.2

The undertaker and Port of Tilbury London Limited will agree on the
appointment of the expert and will agree with the expert the terms of their
appointment.

14.3

If the undertaker and Port of Tilbury London Limited are unable to agree on an
expert or the terms of their appointment within seven days of either party
serving details of a suggested expert on the other, either party will then be
entitled to request the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers to
appoint an expert of repute with no less than 15 years’ experience in the
relevant matter, and to agree with the expert the terms of appointment.

14.4

The expert is required to prepare a written decision including reasons and
give notice (including a copy) of the decision to the parties within a maximum
of two months of the matter being referred to the expert.

14.5

The expert will act as an expert and not as an arbitrator. The expert’s
written decision on the matters referred to them is final and binding on the
parties in the absence of manifest error or fraud.

14.6

The expert’s fees, any costs properly incurred by them in arriving at their
determination and the costs incurred by the parties under this paragraph will
be borne by the parties equally or in such other proportions as the expert may
direct.

15

The undertaker must give written notice to Port of Tilbury London Limited if
any application is proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of
State’s consent, under article 8 (Consent to transfer of benefit of Order) of
this Order, and any such notice must be given no later than 28 days before any
such application is made and must describe or give (as appropriate)—

15.a

the nature of the application to be made;

15.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

15.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF HIGHWAYS ENGLAND COMPANY LIMITED

###### Application

1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the protection of
Highways England and have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and Highways England.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Schedule “strategic road network” means any part of the road network
including trunk roads, special roads or streets for which Highways England is
the highway authority.

###### Approvals

3

Any approval of Highways England under this Order may be given subject to such
reasonable requirements or conditions as Highways England may make for the
protection of the strategic road network.

###### Construction of the authorised development

4

4.1

The undertaker must comply with Highways England’s road space booking
procedures (in accordance with Highways England’s Asset Management Operational
Requirements including Network Occupancy Management System used to manage road
space bookings and network occupancy) prior to exercising a power under
article 13 or article 15 of this Order in relation to the strategic road
network and no power for which a road space booking is required shall be
exercised without a road space booking having first been secured.

4.2

Following any closure or partial closure of any part of the strategic road
network for the purposes of carrying out the authorised development, the
undertaker must give Highways England the opportunity to carry out a site
inspection in order for Highways England to satisfy itself that that part of
the strategic road network is, in its opinion, safe for traffic and the
undertaker must comply with any requirements of Highways England prior to
reopening that part of the strategic road network.

4.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule prevents Highways England from carrying
out any work or taking any such action as it reasonably believes to be
necessary as a result or in connection with of the carrying out or maintenance
of the authorised development without prior notice to the undertaker in the
event of an emergency or to prevent the occurrence of danger to the public and
Highways England may recover from the undertaker any reasonable expenditure
incurred by Highways England in so doing.

###### Payments

5

5.1

The undertaker must pay to Highways England a sum equal to the whole of any
costs and expenses which Highways England incurs (including costs and expenses
for using internal or external staff) in relation to approvals and/or
consultation sought under articles 13 and 15 of this Order including—

5.1.a

the checking and approval of the information required to determine approvals
under articles 13 and 15;

5.1.b

all legal and administrative costs in relation to (a) above;

5.1.c

any value added tax which is payable by Highways England in respect of such
costs and expenses and for which it cannot obtain reinstatement from HM
Revenue and Customs.

5.2

The undertaker must pay to Highways England upon demand and prior to such
costs being incurred the total costs that Highways England believe will be
properly and necessarily incurred by Highways England in undertaking any
statutory procedure or preparing and bringing into force any traffic
regulation order or orders necessary to carry out or for effectively
implementing the authorised development.

5.3

Highways England must consult the undertaker on any traffic regulation order
proposed under sub-paragraph (2) prior to work commencing on any statutory
procedure or preparation, including providing the undertaker with an
explanation of why Highways England considers that the order is necessary to
carry out or for effectively implementing the authorised development.

5.4

Highways England must give the undertaker a final account of the costs
referred to in sub-paragraph (1) above within 91 days of the issue of Highways
England’s determination of an approval sought under article 13 or article 15.

5.5

Within 28 days of the issue of the final account—

5.5.a

if the final account shows a further sum as due to Highways England the
undertaker must pay to Highways England the sum shown due to it;

5.5.b

if the account shows that the payment or payments previously made by the
undertaker have exceeded the costs incurred by Highways England, Highways
England must refund the difference to the undertaker.

5.6

If any payment due under any of the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
is not made on or before the date on which it falls due the party from whom it
was due must at the same time as making the payment pay to the other party
interest at 3% above the Bank of England base lending rate from time to time
being in force for the period starting on the date upon which the payment fell
due and ending with the date of payment of the sum on which interest is
payable together with that interest.

###### Interaction with the Lower Thames Crossing

6

6.1

The undertaker must use reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising
between the carrying out, maintenance and operation of the authorised
development and the Lower Thames Crossing. For the purposes of this sub-
paragraph—

6.1.a

“conflict” does not include any overlap in the land to be occupied or
developed by the undertaker and the Lower Thames Crossing or any overlap in
the Order Limits and application of compulsory powers under this Order and any
order granted for the Lower Thames Crossing, or any difference between
anything required by a requirement of any order granted after the date of the
making of this Order for the construction and operation of the Lower Thames
Crossing and the provisions of this Order;

6.1.b

“reasonable endeavours” means—

6.1.b.i

undertaking consultation with Highways England on detailed design and
programming of works for the authorised development so that the plans as
submitted for approval under the requirements do not unreasonably impede or
interfere with the construction of the Lower Thames Crossing;

6.1.b.ii

having regard to the anticipated programme of works for the Lower Thames
Crossing and any reasonable requirements of Highways England as regards any
works to be undertaken on Work no. 4 within the area where the Lower Thames
Crossing main highway is to be constructed;

6.1.b.iii

providing a point of contact for continuing liaison and co-ordination
throughout the construction and operation of the authorised development; and

6.1.b.iv

complying with sub-paragraph (2) below,

and may include seeking approval of an amendment of any document or plan
approved under a requirement for any Work where construction of that Work has
not been commenced by the undertaker, but does not include the undertaker
being required to seek any amendment to or variation of this Order or delay
programme critical works once the authorised development has commenced.

6.2

The undertaker must co-operate with Highways England so as to reasonably
ensure—

6.2.a

the co-ordination of construction programming, land assembly, and the carrying
out of works in connection with the authorised development and the Lower
Thames Crossing;

6.2.b

that, notwithstanding any provision of this Order and subject to reasonable
notice being provided by Highways England, access to the Order land including
secure working areas for the purposes of constructing the Lower Thames
Crossing is not removed, prevented or prohibited by the undertaker for
Highways England and its agents and/or contractors, including at—

6.2.b.i

Station Road which is in the vicinity of plot 03/05 of the Land Plans;

6.2.b.ii

Substation Road which is in the vicinity of plots 01/27, 01/28, 01/29, 04/01,
04/03, 04/05 and 04/06 of the Land Plans;

6.2.b.iii

Walton Common; and

6.2.b.iv

Tilbury Green common land and Footpath 200.

6.3

Without limitation to the generality of sub-paragraphs (1) and (2)—

6.3.a

Work no. 4 must, unless otherwise agreed with Highways England, be constructed
so that jointing blocks are installed at locations which are reasonably
convenient to enable a diversion which does not conflict with the Lower Thames
Crossing; and

6.3.b

the undertaker must not discharge water or any other samples or materials to
the Bowaters sluice (in the vicinity of plot 01/24 of the Land Plans) unless
otherwise agreed with Highways England.

6.4

The undertaker must as soon as is reasonably practicable provide Highways
England with—

6.4.a

as built drawings in connection with Works nos. 2, 4, 6, 7, 12(a) and 12(d)
following the completion of those works; and

6.4.b

in relation to Walton Common—

6.4.b.i

a copy of the application for certification under article 33(1);

6.4.b.ii

confirmation that the local planning authority has certified or has refused to
certify the application referred to in sub-paragraph (i);

6.4.b.iii

a copy of the application to amend the register of common land made under
article 33(3);

6.4.b.iv

confirmation that the register of common land has been amended following an
application referred to in sub-paragraph (iii); or

6.4.b.v

details of any application made to deregister that common land and any
determination of such an application under the Commons Act 2006.

6.5

In this paragraph “Lower Thames Crossing” means the project which comprises a
new road connecting Kent, Thurrock and Essex through a tunnel beneath the
river Thames as well as improvements to the M25, A2 and A13, which is being
promoted by Highways England and is proposed to be consented under section 22
of the 2008 Act.

###### Expert determination

7

7.1

Article 42 (arbitration)  of the Order does not apply to this Part of this
Schedule.

7.2

Any difference under this Part of this Schedule may be referred to and settled
by a single independent and suitable person who holds appropriate professional
qualifications and is a member of a professional body relevant to the matter
in dispute acting as an expert, such person to be agreed by the differing
parties or, in the absence of agreement, identified by the President of the
Institution of Civil Engineers.

7.3

All parties involved in settling any difference must use best endeavours to do
so within 21 days from the date of a dispute first being notified in writing
by one party to the other and in the absence of the difference being settled
within that period the expert must be appointed within 21 days of the
notification of the dispute.

7.4

The expert must—

7.4.a

invite the parties to make submission to the expert in writing and copied to
the other party to be received by the expert within 21 days of the expert’s
appointment;

7.4.b

permit a party to comment on the submissions made by the other party within 21
days of receipt of the submission;

7.4.c

issue a decision within 42 days of receipt of the submissions under sub-
paragraph (b); and

7.4.d

give reasons for the decision.

7.5

Any determination by the expert is final and binding, except in the case of
manifest error in which case the difference that has been subject to expert
determination may be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 42.

7.6

The fees of the expert are payable by the parties in such proportions as the
expert may determine or, in the absence of such determination, equally.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF RWE GENERATION (UK) Plc

1

The provisions of this part of this Schedule have effect for the protection of
RWE unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and RWE.

2

2.1

ln this Part of this Schedule—

“the road” means the existing road owned by RWE which runs through the site
shown as plots 01/04, 01/11, 01/19, 01/20, 01/21, 01/22, 01/30, 04/01, 04/03,
04/05 and 04/06 on sheets 1 and 4 of the Land Plans; “the proposed road” means
an access road for abnormal indivisible loads which runs through the site
shown as plots 01/04, 01/11, 01/33, 01/34, 01/35, 01/36,01/37, 05/01, 05/02,
05/03, 05/04, 05/05, 05/06, 05/07 and 05/08, on sheets 1 and 5 of the Land
Plans; “existing apparatus” means any pipes, cables, drainage systems or
associated equipment belonging to RWE within the Order land; “environmental
permit” means the environmental permit held by RWE in relation to the site
with reference EP3433LZ; “functions” includes powers and duties; “in” in a
context referring to the existing apparatus or alternative apparatus being in
land, includes a reference to apparatus under, over or on land; “plan”
includes all designs, drawings, specifications and method statements necessary
to describe the works to be executed; “RWE” means RWE Generation UK Plc,
company number 03892782 of Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way,
Swindon, Wiltshire, SN5 6PB or any of its entities or successor entities; “RWE
Undertaking” means any land and existing apparatus belonging to RWE including
but not limited to the site, the existing apparatus and the land subject to
the environmental permit including any rights, liabilities and duties of RWE;
“specified powers” means the powers conferred by articles 11 (street works);
12 (Application of then1991 Act), 13 (temporary restriction of use of
streets); 14 (access to works); 15 (traffic regulation); 17 (authority to
survey and investigate the land); 18 (removal of human remains); 27 (rights
under or over streets); 28 (temporary use of land for carrying out the
authorised development); 29 (temporary use of land for maintaining the
authorised development), and 35 (Felling or lopping of trees and removal of
hedgerows) of the Order; “specified works” means any authorised works under
the Order which are undertaken within 3m of the road or proposed road (or 15m
of any apparatus within the site) or which may have an adverse impact on the
RWE Undertaking and includes invasive investigatory works; “the site” means
the former Tilbury B Power Station site located to the East of Tilbury Town as
shown on sheets 1 and 4 of the Land Plans.

2.2

Where under this Part of this Schedule RWE is required to give its consent,
agreement or approval in respect of any matter, that consent, agreement or
approval—

2.2.a

is not to be unreasonably withheld and any consent,

2.2.b

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements and/or conditions as RWE
may have or consider necessary for the protection of the existing apparatus
and RWE Undertaking; and

2.2.c

is intended to control the means and practicalities of the specified works to
protect the existing apparatus and the RWE Undertaking.

###### Exercise of Powers

3

3.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order the undertaker must not
acquire any land interest or apparatus under articles 19, 22, 25 or 30
override any easement or other interest of RWE otherwise than by agreement.

3.2

Regardless of any provision in this Order and in particular article 37
(Operational land for the purposes of the 1990 Act), no part of the site and
the affected highways or streets within the site will become operational land
of the undertaker, and nothing under this Order will affect the status of the
land in so far as it forms operational land of RWE.

3.3

Article 41 (Application of landlord and tenant law) does not apply to any
agreement entered into between the undertaker and RWE in relation to the site.

3.4

At least 56 days before the undertaker exercises any or all of—

3.4.a

the specified powers in respect of the site and the affected highways or
streets within the site; or

3.4.b

the specified powers in respect of the RWE Undertaking (insofar as that
Undertaking is located outside of the site); or

3.4.c

the powers referred to in sub-paragraph (6),

the undertaker must submit to RWE details of the works to be undertaken in
reliance on those powers.

3.5

Any specified powers:

3.5.a

in respect of the site and the affected highways or streets within the site
must not be exercised except with the agreement of RWE; and

3.5.b

in respect of the RWE Undertaking (insofar as that Undertaking is located
outside of the site) must not be exercised without the undertaker first
consulting RWE on the details submitted pursuant to sub-paragraph (4) and
taking account of any consultation response.

3.6

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by article 3
(Development consent etc. granted by the Order), article 8 (Consent to
transfer benefit of Order), 16 (discharge of water) article 20 (statutory
authority to override easements and other rights) or article 23 (private
rights) in relation to any land in the site without the consent of RWE.

3.7

Any agreement or approval or consent to be given by RWE under this paragraph:

3.7.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and

3.7.b

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements and/or conditions as RWE
may have or consider necessary for the protection of the RWE Undertaking.

3.8

If RWE refuses any approval or agreement or consent sought under this
paragraph then that refusal must be accompanied by a statement of grounds for
refusal.

###### Existing apparatus

4

4.1

Despite any provision of this Order and anything shown on the Land Plans, the
undertaker must not acquire any existing apparatus other than by agreement.

4.2

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any existing apparatus is placed,
that existing apparatus must not be removed and any right of RWE to use,
maintain, or renew that existing apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until a replacement is installed and available for use by RWE.

4.3

Any replacement apparatus must fulfil the same functions as the apparatus
being replaced and must be no less advantageous in nature to RWE than the
apparatus being replaced.

4.4

Not less than 56 days before starting the execution of specified works, the
undertaker must submit to RWE a plan, section and description of the works to
be executed.

4.5

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (4) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (4) by
RWE for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the existing
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and RWE is entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of those works, and the undertaker must supply RWE with
any additional information concerning such works as RWE may reasonably
require.

4.6

Any requirements made by RWE under sub-paragraph (5) must be made within a
period of 56 days beginning with the date on which a plan, section and
description under sub-paragraph (4) are submitted to it.

4.7

Where RWE requires any protective works under sub-paragraph (5) to be carried
out either by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a permanent or temporary
nature), the protective works must be carried out to RWE’s reasonable
satisfaction prior to the carrying out of the specified works.

4.8

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

4.9

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (4) in a case of
emergency, but in that case it must give to RWE notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan, section and description of those works as
soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph
(5) in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

4.10

The undertaker must pay to RWE the proper and reasonable expenses reasonably
incurred by RWE in, or in connection with, the inspection, alteration or
protection of any existing apparatus.

4.11

Subject to sub-paragraph (14) if by reason, or in consequence, of the
construction, use, operation or failure of any specified works or in
consequence of the construction, use, operation, maintenance or failure of any
of the authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works, any
damage is caused to any existing apparatus or property of RWE, or to the road,
or to the RWE Undertaking, or to operations, or there is any interruption in
any service provided by RWE, or in the supply of any goods to RWE or by RWE,
or RWE becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker
must—

4.11.a

bear and pay on demand the proper and reasonable cost reasonably and properly
incurred by RWE in making good such damage or restoring operations, services
or supply; and

4.11.b

indemnify RWE for any other expenses, losses, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from RWE, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption.

4.12

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by RWE on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by RWE or in accordance with
any requirement of RWE or its supervision does not (subject to sub-paragraph
(13)) excuse the undertaker from liability under sub-paragraph (11)(a).

4.13

Nothing in sub-paragraph (11)(a) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any loss, damage, injury or interruption to the extent that it is
attributable to the neglect or default of RWE, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

4.14

RWE must give the undertaker reasonable notice (being not less than 28 days)
of any claim or demand, and no settlement or compromise may be made without
the consent of the undertaker (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)
which, if it reasonably withholds such consent, has the sole conduct of any
settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim
or demand.

###### Road, proposed road and RWE Undertaking

5

5.1

The undertaker must give RWE no less than 56 days’ written notice of the
intended commencement of any specified works and must include with this
notification a plan and description of the works to be commenced and a
programme for these works.

5.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the undertaker must permit RWE, its successors
in title, occupiers, tenants and invitees of the site pedestrian and vehicular
access at all times and for all purposes along the road and proposed road in
common with the undertaker.

5.3

The undertaker must give RWE not less than 28 days’ notice of any exercise of
powers under article 11 (Street works), article 13 (Temporary restriction of
use of streets), article 14 (access to works) and article 15 (traffic
regulation) which would restrict access by RWE, its successors in title,
occupiers, tenants and invitees to the road and/or the proposed road. Where
access to the road along an existing route is prevented or restricted by the
undertaker, the undertaker must ensure that suitable alternative is available
for use by RWE, its successors in title, occupiers, tenants and invitees for
the whole period of the closure or restriction before exercising any power.

5.4

Save in the case of emergency, the undertaker may not prevent or restrict RWE
from using the road (or any alternative access provided under these protective
provisions).

5.5

The undertaker must ensure that the road or a suitable alternative is open for
emergency access to the site at all times.

5.6

If the undertaker requires to undertake any specified works which will break
open the surface of the road or involve any temporary closure of the road then
the undertaker must provide 7 days written notice of such works to RWE and
acting reasonably must have regard to (and accommodate so far as reasonably
practicable) any requests from RWE in respect of this period of works,
including measures, where practicable to minimise disruption and facilitate
access to the site.

5.7

Where any temporary closure of the road is required, a suitable alternative
access to the site must be provided to RWE, its occupiers, tenants and
invitees which is no less convenient to access the site than the road for the
whole period of the closure. The undertaker must have regard to any requests
from RWE (acting reasonably) in relation to the location of the alternative
access road.

5.8

The undertaker must keep the road (or alternative access if one is provided)
clean and tidy and free of obstructions at all times.

5.9

If at any time RWE requires the relocation, variation or alteration of the
road or the proposed road, then RWE shall serve written notice on the
undertaker informing them of this fact and identifying the proposed
relocation, alteration or variation of the road or the proposed road within
the Site.

5.10

Subject to—

5.10.a

agreement by the undertaker (not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) that
the proposed relocation, alteration or variation of the road or the proposed
road within the site is acceptable; and

5.10.b

RWE meeting any costs of the undertaker associated with the proposed
relocation, alteration or variation of the road and/or the proposed road
within the site including alterations of connections to access roads outside
the Site; and

5.10.c

RWE granting the necessary rights for the proposed relocation, alteration or
variation of the road or the proposed road within the Site; and

5.10.d

the undertaker seeking and being granted, the necessary rights for the
proposed relocation, alteration or variation of the road or the proposed road
as is necessary to connect to the altered or varied road or proposed road.

###### General

6

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and RWE under this
Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and RWE, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 42
of this Order.

7

The undertaker and RWE must each act reasonably in connection with the
implementation of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Notices

8

Any plans or notices submitted to RWE by the undertaker pursuant to this Part
must be sent to RWE c/o the Company Secretary at its registered address on
Windmill Hill Business Park, Whitehill Way, Swindon, SN5 6PB or such other
address as RWE may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and
notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THURROCK BOROUGH COUNCIL

1

The provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Thurrock Council.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“costs” will include the reasonable costs to the Council of the time of its
own officers as well as costs expended; “illuminated signage” means two
illuminated highway signs to be installed within the boundary of the local
highway (Station Road) to the south of the Station Road Level Crossing to
provide warning of the level crossing, and any associated works including
provision of an electrical connection; “Consents” means approvals, consents,
licences, permissions, or registrations; “RSA” or “Road Safety Audit” means a
review of the proposed design or any works and any road safety impacts carried
out in accordance with the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges or such other
standard as the undertaker and the Council may agree; “the Council” means
Thurrock Borough Council; “highway” means a highway vested in or maintainable
by the Council as highway authority under the 1980 Act; and “specified work”
means the works under the Order to create new junctions to the public highway
at Station Road and Fort Road, and the installation of Work no. 4 (the gas
pipeline) in or under Station Road.

###### Road condition surveys

3

The Council will, at the cost of the undertaker, procure or undertake road
conditions surveys on the following highways—

3.a

St Andrews Road, between Tilbury Port Gate 1 and Ferry Road junction;

3.b

Port Access Road between Ferry Road Junction and Fort Road (including
connection road);

3.c

Fort Road, between Port Access Road and Coopers Shaw Road/Gunn Hill Junction;

3.d

Coopers Shaw Road between Fort Road and Station Road, and

3.e

Station Road between Cooper Shaw Road and the site entrance.

4

4.1

The undertaker will notify the Council of—

4.1.a

the anticipated date of commencement of development under this Order; and

4.1.b

the anticipated construction programme and date of completion of the
authorised development;

not less than 3 months prior to that anticipated date of commencement of
development under this Order.

4.2

The Council will provide a proposed scope setting out the number (having
regard to the construction programme notified to it by the undertaker),
content and format of road conditions surveys to the undertaker for comment no
later than 4 weeks after being notified under sub-paragraph (1). The proposed
scope will include live data monitoring to provide 24/7 speed and volume
counts. The Council must have regard to any reasonable comments made by the
undertaker within 2 weeks of receipt of that proposed scope in finalising the
scope of the road conditions surveys.

4.3

The first road condition survey must be undertaken prior to the anticipated
commencement of HGV movements for the authorised development, and further
surveys must be undertaken at 3 month intervals from the date of the first
surveys until the completion of the construction phase of the authorised
development. A final survey must be undertaken within 28 days of the Council
being notified by the undertaker that the construction of the authorised
development has been completed.

5

5.1

The Council will invoice the undertaker for the reasonable anticipated costs
of all of the planned road conditions surveys set out in the scope following
the finalisation of the scope.

5.2

Where the costs incurred by the Council exceed the sum invoiced under sub-
paragraph (1) because the development did not complete in accordance with the
programme notified to the Council under paragraph 4(1)(b), the Council may,
following the carrying out of the final survey under sub-paragraph 4(3),
invoice the undertaker for the costs incurred in excess of the sum invoiced
under sub-paragraph (1).

###### HGV route remediation

6

The undertaker must maintain and provide to the Council at 3 month intervals
from the date of commencement of development under this Order until the
authorised development is completed, records of the number of HGVs using the
local highway to access the authorised development and details of which route
such HGVs used.

7

7.1

The Council will, having regard to the road condition surveys, identify any
need for remediation of the highway on the following roads—

7.1.a

St Andrews Road, between Tilbury Port Gate 1 and Ferry Road junction;

7.1.b

Port Access Road between Ferry Road Junction and Fort Road (including
connection road);

7.1.c

Fort Road, between Port Access Road and Coopers Shaw Road/Gunn Hill Junction;

7.1.d

Coopers Shaw Road between Fort Road and Station Road, and

7.1.e

Station Road between Cooper Shaw Road and the site entrance.

7.2

Where a need for remediation works or measures is identified under sub-
paragraph (1), the Council must prepare a schedule of the works or measures
required and of the cost of the delivery of those works or measures.

7.3

The Council will invoice the undertaker for a portion of the costs of the
works or measures identified under sub-paragraph (2) proportionally with the
undertaker’s HGV use of the roads as compared to the overall HGV movements in
percentage terms as established by the road conditions surveys. For example,
where the undertaker’s HGV use is 10% of all HGV use of the highways listed in
sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker will be liable to the Council for 10% of the
costs of the identified remediation works and measures.

8

8.1

Where the undertaker’s HGV use deviates from the anticipated route (being the
highways listed in paragraph (3)), the Council may, acting reasonably, take
such action by way of the making of traffic regulation orders or traffic
management, as it considers is necessary to prevent HGV use of unsuitable
highways or to protect the safety or amenity of other highway users and
properties adjacent to highways.

8.2

Where the Council takes action under sub-paragraph (1) it may invoice the
undertaker for the reasonably incurred costs of that action.

8.3

Reasonably incurred costs under sub-paragraph (2) will include the costs of
promoting and making any traffic regulation order.

###### Specified works

9

9.1

The undertaker will allow and facilitate an appropriately qualified officer of
the Council acting as highway authority to participate in the design process
for any Work authorised by this Order which involves a specified work, and
will have reasonable regard to any views of that officer in finalising the
detailed design of that Work, provided always that any such view shared by the
officer will not be an instruction, requirement or authorisation under this
Order.

9.2

The undertaker must, before commencing any specified work, provide to the
Council for approval the proposed details for the specified works and a total
estimate of the cost for all of the specified works.

9.3

Following approval under sub-paragraph (2), the Council will issue to the
undertaker an invoice for 6% of the total estimate of the costs for all of the
specified works as approved, which sum will be used to cover the Council’s
reasonable fees, costs, charges and expenses in approving the plans for and in
supervising construction of the specified works.

10

10.1

Any officer of the Council duly appointed for the purpose may at all
reasonable times, on giving to the undertaker such notice as may in the
circumstances be reasonable, enter upon and inspect any part of the authorised
development which—

10.1.a

is in, on, over or under any highway; or

10.1.b

which may affect any highway;

during the carrying out of the work, and the undertaker will give to such
officer all reasonable facilities for such inspection and, if the officer is
of the opinion that the construction of the work poses danger to any highway
or to any property of the relevant highway authority or danger to persons or
vehicles or other property in relation to which the highway authority might be
liable on, in, over or under any highway, the undertaker will adopt such
measures and precautions as may be reasonably practicable for the purpose of
preventing any damage or injury to the highway or persons or vehicles or other
property aforesaid.

10.2

Any officer of the Council exercising the right to inspect works under sub-
paragraph (1) must comply with all reasonable health and safety requirements
and instructions of the undertaker in doing so.

11

The undertaker must, if reasonably required by the Council, provide and
maintain during such time as the undertaker may occupy any part of a highway
for the purpose of the construction of any part of the authorised development,
temporary ramps for vehicular or pedestrian traffic and any other traffic
measures required to protect the safety of road users in accordance with
chapter 8 of the Traffic Signs Manual as may be necessary.

###### Level crossing warning illuminated signage

12

12.1

The illuminated signage is to be located in the vicinity of the new junction
to be formed from the new access road (Work no. 6 authorised by this Order) on
to Station Road.

12.2

The Council will prepare a design for the illuminated signage in consultation
with Network Rail within 8 weeks of being requested to do so by the
undertaker, or 8 weeks from the date of receipt of the notice of commencement
of the authorised development, whichever is the earlier.

12.3

The Council must obtain any Consents required to install the illuminated
signage.

12.4

The Council is responsible for approving, procuring, carrying out, supervising
and, inspecting any works associated with installing the illuminated signage.

12.5

The Council must carry out any RSAs which are required in relation to the
design and installation of the illuminated signage.

12.6

The Council must use best endeavours to carry out the works to install the
illuminated signage no later than 6 months from the date of commencement of
the authorised development.

12.7

The Council will invoice the undertaker for its reasonably incurred costs
under this paragraph as soon as reasonably practicable following installation
of the illuminated signage.

###### Payment of invoices

13

Any invoice issued by the Council under this Part of this Schedule is payable
by the undertaker within 30 days of issue.

###### Disputes

14

Any difference in arising between the undertaker and the Council under this
Part of this Schedule (other than in difference as to the meaning or
construction of this Part of this Schedule) will be resolved by arbitration
under article 42(arbitration).

###### Indemnity

15

The undertaker indemnifies the Council as highway authority in relation to all
costs, damages, losses or claims reasonably incurred by the Council in
relation to any works by the undertaker in, on, over or under the highway.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order authorises Thurrock Power Limited to construct, operate and
maintain a new gas fired generating station and battery storage facility at
Tilbury, Thurrock, Essex and carry out all associated works.

The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

The Order would permit Thurrock Power Limited to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

A copy of the plans, environmental statement and other documents mentioned in
this Order and certified in accordance with article 38 of this Order
(certification of plans, etc.) may be inspected free of charge during working
hours at Thurrock Power Limited, 145 Kensington Church St, Kensington, London
W8 7LP.

