Title: The Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022
Date: 2024-02-13
Description: This Order grants development consent for, and authorises Norfolk Vanguard Limited to construct, operate and maintain a generating station located in the North Sea approximately 47km from the Norfolk coast, together with associated development. For the purposes of the development that it authorises Norfolk Vanguard Limited is authorised by this Order compulsorily or by agreement to purchase land(including rights in land) and the right to use land, as well as to override easements and other rights. This Order also provides a defence in proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance and to discharge water. The Order imposes requirements in connection with the development for which it grants development consent.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/138

## The Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   11th February 2022

  Coming into force   5th March 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008 (“ the 2008 Act ”)( ) and in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by the Examining Authority appointed by the Secretary
of State pursuant to sections 61  and 65  of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 of that Act and with the
Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 . The Examining
Authority has submitted a report to the Secretary of State under section 74(2)
of the 2008 Act.     The Secretary of State has considered the report and
recommendation of the Examining Authority, has taken into account the
environmental information in accordance with regulation 3 of the
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2009
and, as a national policy statement has effect in relation to the proposed
development, has had regard to the documents and matters referred to in
section 104(2)  of the 2008 Act.     The Secretary of State, having decided
the application, has determined to make an Order granting development consent
for the development described in the application on terms that in the opinion
of the Secretary of State are not materially different from those proposed in
the application.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that open space
comprised within the Order land, when burdened with the new rights authorised
for compulsory acquisition under the terms of this Order, will be no less
advantageous than it was before such acquisition, to the persons in whom it is
vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights,
and the public and that, accordingly, section 132(3)  of the 2008 Act applies.
The Secretary of State in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114,
115, 120 , 140 and 149A of the 2008 Act makes the following Order—

### Preliminary

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022
and comes into force on 5th March 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

    “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;         “ the 1965
Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;         “ the 1980 Act ” means
the Highways Act 1980 ;         “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;         “ the 1989 Act ” means the
Electricity Act 1989 ;         “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and Country
Planning Act 1990 ;         “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street
Works Act 1991 ;         “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;
“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004 ;         “ the 2008 Act ” means
the Planning Act 2008 ;         “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal
Access Act 2009 ;         “ the 2016 Regulations ” means the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 ;         “ access to works
plan ” means the plan certified as the access to works plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “
accommodation platform ” means a fixed structure providing offshore
accommodation for personnel;         “ ancillary works ” means the ancillary
works described in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works) and any other works
authorised by this Order and which are not development within the meaning of
section 32 of the 2008 Act;         “ authorised development ” means the
development and associated development described in Part 1 of Schedule 1
(authorised development) which is development within the meaning of section 32
of the 2008 Act;         “ authorised project ” means the authorised
development and the ancillary works authorised by this Order;         “ book
of reference ” means the book of reference certified by the Secretary of State
under article 37 as the book of reference for the purposes of this Order;
“ building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building,
structure or erection;         “ business day ” means a day other than
Saturday or Sunday which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday
under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 ;         “
cable ” means any onshore or offshore cable and in respect of any onshore
cable includes direct lay cables and/or cables pulled through cable ducts;
“ cable ducts ” means conduits for the installation of cables and/or fibre
optic cables;         “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;
“ commence ” means, (a) in relation to works seaward of MHWS, the first
carrying out of any licensed marine activities authorised by the deemed marine
licences, save for pre-construction surveys and monitoring approved under the
deemed marine licences or, (b) in respect of any other works comprised in the
authorised project, the first carrying out of any material operation (as
defined in section 155 of the 2008 Act) forming part of the authorised project
other than operations consisting of site clearance, demolition work,
archaeological investigations, environmental surveys, investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, diversion and laying of
services, erection of any temporary means of enclosure, temporary hard
standing, the temporary display of site notices or advertisements and the
words “commencement” and “ commenced ” must be construed accordingly;
“ converter building ” means the building housing the principal electrical
equipment comprised in Work No. 8A;         “ deemed marine licences ” means
the marine licences set out in Schedules 9, 10, 11 and 12;         “ Defence
Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence
Safeguarding, Defence Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton
Coldfield, West Midlands B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions;
“ design and access statement ” means the document certified as the design and
access statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 37;         “ development principles ” means the document
certified as the Development Principles by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 37;         “ draught height ” means the distance between the
lowest point of the rotating blade of a wind turbine generator and MHWS;
“ environmental statement ” means the document certified as the environmental
statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under
article 37;         “ gravity base system ” means a structure principally of
steel, concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on the seabed either due to
its own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and
associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece,
corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access
systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment;
“ HAT ” means highest astronomical tide;         “ highway ” has the same
meaning as in section 328(1) of the 1980 Act ;         “ highway authority ”
means National Highways or Norfolk County Council (as appropriate);         “
horizontal directional drilling ” means a trenchless technique for installing
an underground duct between two points without the need to excavate vertical
shafts;         “ important hedgerows plan ” means the document certified as
the important hedgerows plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order under article 37;         “ in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern
North Sea Special Area of Conservation site integrity plan ” means the
document certified as the in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea
Special Area of Conservation site integrity plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ interface cables ”
means buried onshore cables and fibre optic cables which connect the onshore
project substation to the National Grid substation;         “ jacket
foundation ” means a steel jacket/lattice-type structure constructed of steel
which is fixed to the seabed at three or more points with steel pin piles or
steel suction caissons and associated equipment including scour protection,
J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion protection systems, fenders and
maintenance equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and access and rest
platform(s) and equipment;         “ jointing pit ” means an excavation formed
to enable the jointing of high voltage power cables and fibre optic cables;
“ jointing works ” means a process by which two or more cables or fibre optic
cables are connected to each other by means of cable joints within a jointing
pit;         “ landfall ” means the location at which the offshore cables and
fibre optic cables come ashore;         “ land plan ” means the plan certified
as the land plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 37;         “ LIDAR ” means light detection and ranging;
“ limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation referred to in article 4
(limits of deviation) for the overhead line modification works comprised in
Work No. 11A;         “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust,
and alter, and further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but only in
relation to any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary
works), any cable, any component part of any wind turbine generator, offshore
electrical substation, accommodation platform, meteorological mast, and the
onshore transmission works described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) not including the removal, reconstruction or replacement of
foundations and buildings associated with the onshore project substation), to
the extent assessed in the environmental statement; and “maintenance” is
construed accordingly;         “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard
Agency;         “mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means the highest level
which spring tides reach on average over a period of time;         “mean low
water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the lowest level which spring tides reach on
average over a period of time;         “ measurement buoy ” means any floating
device used for measurement purposes, including LIDAR buoys and wave buoys;
“ meteorological mast ” means a mast housing equipment to measure wind speed
and other wind characteristics, including a topside housing electrical,
communication and associated equipment and marking and lighting;         “ MMO
” means the Marine Management Organisation;         “ mobilisation area ”
means an area associated with the onshore transmission works including hard
standings, lay down and storage areas for construction materials and
equipment, areas for spoil, areas for vehicular parking, bunded storage areas,
areas for welfare facilities including offices and canteen and washroom
facilities, workshop facilities and temporary fencing or other means of
enclosure and areas for other facilities required for construction purposes;
“ National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC;         “
National Grid substation extension ” means the extension to the existing 400kV
National Grid substation at Necton to provide a connection point to the 400kV
grid network, including switchgear, circuit breakers and extension to existing
busbar structures;         “ Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm Development
Consent Order ” means the development consent order made by the Secretary of
State in relation to the Hornsea Three offshore wind farm on 31st December
2020 ;         “ Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order ” means the order
made by the Secretary of State on 10th December 2021 authorising the Norfolk
Boreas offshore wind farm ;         “ Norfolk Vanguard East ” means the
eastern area located in the offshore Order limits within which wind turbine
generators will be situated;         “ Norfolk Vanguard West ” means the
western area located in the offshore Order limits within which wind turbine
generators will be situated;         “ offshore cable crossings ” means the
crossing of existing sub-sea cables or pipelines or other existing offshore
infrastructure by the array, interconnecting and/or export cables and fibre
optic cables authorised by this Order together with physical protection
measures including concrete mattresses, rock placement or other protection
methods;         “ offshore electrical platform ” means a platform attached to
the seabed by means of a foundation, with one or more decks, whether open or
fully clad, accommodating electrical power transformers, switchgear,
instrumentation, protection and control systems, and other associated
equipment and facilities to enable the transmission of electronic
communications and for electricity to be collected at, and exported from, the
platform;         “ offshore in principle monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the offshore in principle monitoring plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ offshore
works ” means Work Nos. 1 to 4B and any ancillary works in connection with
those works;         “ onshore decommissioning plan ” means a plan to
decommission Work No. 4B to Work No. 12 which includes a programme within
which any works of decommissioning must be undertaken;         “ onshore
project substation ” means a facility containing electrical equipment
including (but not limited to) power transformers, switchgear, welfare
facilities, access, fencing and other associated equipment, structures or
buildings;         “ onshore transmission works ” means Work Nos. 4C to 12 and
any related further associated development in connection with those works and
ancillary works described in Schedule 1 part 1 and Schedule 1 part 2
respectively;         “ OPS Masterplan ” means the document certified as the
OPS Masterplan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of article 37;
“ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plan which is within the
limits of land to be acquired and described in the book of reference;
“ Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the
authorised project may be carried out, whose grid coordinates seaward of MHWS
are set out in paragraph 2 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development) of
this Order;         “ outline access management plan ” means the document
certified as the outline access management plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline code of
construction practice ” means the document certified as the outline code of
construction practice by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 37;         “ outline operational drainage plan ” means the
document certified as the outline operational drainage plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline
fisheries liaison and co-existence plan ” means the document certified as the
outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline landscape and
ecological management strategy ” means the document certified as the outline
landscape and ecological management strategy by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline marine traffic
monitoring strategy ” means the document certified as the outline marine
traffic monitoring strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 37;         “ outline Norfolk Vanguard Haisborough,
Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation site integrity plan ” means
the document certified as the outline Norfolk Vanguard Haisborough, Hammond
and Winterton Special Area of Conservation site integrity plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “
outline offshore operations and maintenance plan ” means the document
certified as the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article 37;         “
outline project environmental management plan ” means the document certified
as the outline project environmental management plan by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline scour
protection and cable protection plan ” means the document certified as the
outline scour protection and cable protection plan the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline skills and
employment strategy ” means the document certified as the outline skills and
employment strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 37;         “ outline traffic management plan ” means the
document certified as the outline traffic management plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “ outline
travel plan ” means the document certified as the outline travel plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “
outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) ” means the document
certified as the outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “
outline written scheme of investigation (onshore) ” means the document
certified as the outline written scheme of investigation (onshore) by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37;         “
overhead line modification ” means alteration and repositioning of the
overhead line, including removal of part of the overhead line, in respect of
the existing Walpole to Norwich Main 400kV overhead line between pylons 4VV123
and 4VV127 on land north east of Necton, Norfolk to allow connection into the
National Grid substation extension including connecting into the National Grid
sealing end compound;         “ owner ” in relation to land, has the same
meaning as in section 7 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;         “ pin
piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to
secure steel jacket foundations;         “ relevant drainage authorities ”
means the drainage board for the area of land to which the relevant provision
of this Order applies within the meaning of section 23 of the Land Drainage
Act 1991 ;         “ relevant planning authority ” means the district planning
authority for the area in which the land to which the relevant provision of
this Order applies is situated;         “ requirements ” means, or a reference
to a numbered requirement is to, those matters set out in Part 3 of Schedule 1
(requirements) to this Order;         “ scour protection ” means measures to
prevent loss of seabed sediment around any marine structure placed in or on
the seabed by use of protective aprons, mattresses with or without frond
devices, or rock and gravel placement;         “ single offshore phase ” means
carrying out all offshore works as a single construction operation;         “
single onshore phase ” means a single duct laying operation followed by a one
separate operation to pull the cables through the ducts and one separate
operation to construct the onshore project substation;         “ statutory
nature conservation body ” means an organisation charged by government with
advising on nature conservation matters;         “ statutory undertaker ”
means any person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act and a public
communications provider as defined in section 151 of the 2003 Act;         “
street ” means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act,
together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and
includes part of a street;         “ street authority ” in relation to a
street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ;         “ suction
caisson ” means a large diameter steel cylindrical shell which penetrates the
seabed assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential for fixity of
foundations;         “ temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan ”
means the plan certified as the temporary stopping up of public rights of way
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article
37;         “ transition jointing pit ” means an excavation formed to enable
the jointing of the offshore export cables and fibre optic cables comprised in
Work No. 4B to the onshore transmission works;         “ tribunal ” means the
Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;         “ Trinity House ” means the
Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond;         “ trenchless
installation techniques ” means techniques for installing an underground duct
between two points, without excavating and back-filling a trench;         “
two offshore phases ” means carrying out the offshore works as two separate
construction operations;         “ two onshore phases ” means a single duct
laying operation followed by two separate operations to pull the cables
through the ducts and two separate operations to construct the onshore project
substation;         “ undertaker ” means Norfolk Vanguard Limited (Company No.
08141115) whose registered office is at 5th Floor, 70 St Mary Axe, London EC3A
8BE;         “ vessel ” means every description of vessel, however propelled
or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a
seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any
other amphibious vehicle and any other thing constructed or adapted for
movement through, in, on or over water and which is at the time in, on or over
water;         “ watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, creeks, ditches,
drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through
which water flows except a public sewer or drain;         “ wind turbine
generator ” means a structure comprising a tower, rotor with up to three
blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical and other
equipment which may include (but is not limited to) corrosion protection
systems, helicopter landing facilities and other associated equipment, fixed
to a foundation; and         “ works plan ” means the plan certified as the
works plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under
article 37;

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or restrain or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in
the air-space above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition
of restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over the
land which interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the
benefit of land which is acquired under this Order or which is an interest
otherwise comprised in the Order land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate, save in respect of the parameters referred to in:

2.3.a

paragraph 1(c) and paragraph 1(e) (disposal volumes in connection with Work
Nos. 1 to 4B) in Part 1, Schedule 1 (authorised development);

2.3.b

requirements 2 to 11 and requirement 16 in Part 3, Schedule 1 (requirements);

2.3.c

conditions 1 to 8 in Part 4 of the deemed marine licences for the generation
assets (Schedules 9 and 10); and

2.3.d

conditions 1 to 3 in Part 4of the deemed marine licences for the transmission
assets (Schedules 11 and 12).

2.4

Any reference in this Order to a work identified by the number of the work is
to be construed as a reference to the work of that number authorised by this
Order.

2.5

Unless otherwise stated, references in this Order to points identified by
letters are to be construed as references to the points so lettered on the
works plan.

2.6

The expression “ includes ” is to be construed without limitation unless the
contrary intention appears.

### Principal Powers

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements the undertaker
is granted—

3.1.a

development consent for the authorised development; and

3.1.b

consent for the ancillary works,

to be carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Subject to the requirements and conditions in the deemed marine licences, Work
Nos. 1 to 4B must be constructed within the Order limits seaward of MHWS and
Work Nos. 4C to 12 must be constructed within the Order limits landward of
MHWS.

#### Limits of deviation

4

In carrying out the overhead line modification as part of Work No.11A the
undertaker may—

4.a

deviate vertically from the levels of the existing 400kV overhead line from
Walpole to Norwich Main to be modified as part of Work No.11A—

4.a.i

to any extent not exceeding 4 metres upwards; or

4.a.ii

to any extent downwards as may be found to be necessary or convenient.

4.b

deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the existing 400kV overhead
line from Walpole to Norwich Main to be modified as part of Work No.11A to any
extent not exceeding 25 metres either side of the existing overhead line as
shown by the limits of deviation relating to that work on the works plan.

#### Power to maintain authorised project

5

5.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project, except to the
extent that this Order or an agreement made under this Order provides
otherwise.

5.2

The power to maintain conferred under paragraph (1) does not relieve the
undertaker of any requirement to obtain a licence under Part 4 of the 2009 Act
(marine licensing) for offshore works not covered by the deemed marine
licences.

#### Benefit of the Order

6

6.1

Subject to this article, the provisions of this Order have effect solely for
the benefit of the undertaker.

6.2

Subject to paragraphs (4), (5) and (6), the undertaker may with the written
consent of the Secretary of State—

6.2.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order (excluding the deemed marine licences referred to
in paragraph (3) below) and such related statutory rights as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the transferee; and

6.2.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order (excluding the deemed marine licences referred to in paragraph (3)
below) and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed;

except where paragraph (10) applies, in which case no consent of the Secretary
of State is required.

6.3

Subject to paragraph (5), the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

6.3.a

where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), transfer
to the transferee the whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such
related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
transferee; or

6.3.b

where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(b), grant to
the lessee, for the duration of the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(b), the
whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such related statutory rights
as may be so agreed;

except where paragraph (10) applies, in which case no consent of the Secretary
of State is required.

6.4

The undertaker must consult the Secretary of State before making an
application for consent under this article by giving notice in writing of the
proposed application.

6.5

The Secretary of State shall consult the MMO before giving consent to the
transfer or grant to another person of the whole of the benefit of the
provisions of the deemed marine licences.

6.6

The Secretary of State shall consult National Grid before giving consent to
the transfer or grant to a person of any or all of the benefit of the
provisions of this Order (excluding the deemed marine licences referred to in
paragraph (3) above).

6.7

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2) or (3)
references in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (8), (9), or
(11), include references to the transferee or lessee.

6.8

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (2) or (3) are subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

6.9

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2) or (3)—

6.9.a

the benefit (“the transferred benefit”) includes any rights that are
conferred, and any obligations that are imposed by virtue of the provisions to
which the benefit relates;

6.9.b

the transferred benefit resides exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit is not enforceable against
the undertaker save in the case of a deemed marine licence transferred or
granted in respect of any breach of an obligation by the undertaker which
occurs prior to such transfer or grant or which occurs as a result of any
activity carried out by the undertaker on behalf of the transferee.

6.9.c

the exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (2)  or (3) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

6.10

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for the exercise of powers
under paragraph (2) or (3) except where—

6.10.a

the transferee or lessee is a person who holds a licence under section 6 of
the 1989 Act; or

6.10.b

the time limits for claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of
land or effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and—

6.10.b.i

no such claims have been made,

6.10.b.ii

any such claim has been made and has been compromised or withdrawn,

6.10.b.iii

compensation has been paid in final settlement of any such claim,

6.10.b.iv

payment of compensation into court has taken place in lieu of settlement of
any such claim; or

6.10.b.v

it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in
respect of any such claim that no compensation is payable.

6.11

The provisions of article 9 (street works), article 11 (temporary stopping up
of streets), article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land), article 20
(compulsory acquisition of rights and the imposition of restrictive
covenants), article 26 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
project) and article 27 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised
project) have effect only for the benefit of the named undertaker and a person
who is a transferee or lessee and is also—

6.11.a

in respect of Works Nos. 4C to 12 a person who holds a licence under section 6
of the 1989 Act; or

6.11.b

in respect of functions under article 9 (street works) relating to a street, a
street authority.

6.12

Prior to any transfer or grant under this article taking effect the undertaker
must give notice in writing to the Secretary of State, and if such transfer or
grant relates to the exercise of powers in their area, to the MMO and the
relevant planning authority, and if such transfer or grant relates to works or
utilisation of powers within 15 metres measured in any direction of apparatus
of Cadent Gas Limited, to Cadent Gas Limited, and if such transfer or grant
relates to works or utilisation of powers within 15 metres measured in any
direction of apparatus of National Grid to National Grid.

6.13

A notice required under paragraphs (4) and (12) must—

6.13.a

state—

6.13.a.i

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the
provisions will be transferred or granted;

6.13.a.ii

subject to paragraph (14), the date on which the transfer will take effect;

6.13.a.iii

the provisions to be transferred or granted;

6.13.a.iv

the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that, in accordance with
paragraph (8), will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred or
granted; and

6.13.a.v

except where paragraph (10)(a) or 10(b) applies, confirmation of the
availability and adequacy of funds for compensation associated with the
compulsory acquisition of the Order land.

6.13.b

where relevant, be accompanied by—

6.13.b.i

a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or grant relates; and

6.13.b.ii

a copy of the document effecting the transfer or grant signed by the
undertaker and the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be
transferred or granted.

6.14

The date specified under paragraph (13)(a)(ii) must not be earlier than the
expiry of 14 days from the date of the receipt of the notice.

6.15

The notice given under paragraph (12) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

6.16

Section 72(7) and (8) of the 2009 Act do not apply to a transfer or grant of
the benefit of the provisions of any of the deemed marine licences to another
person by the undertaker pursuant to an agreement under this article.

#### Application and modification of legislative provisions

7

7.1

Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997  is modified so as to read for
the purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph
(1)(j) the following—

or

7.1.k

for carrying out development which has been authorised by an order granting
development consent pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.

.

7.2

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 26 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised project) and 27 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised project) of this Order do not apply in relation to
the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised project.

7.3

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the construction of works
carried out for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction or
maintenance of the authorised project—

7.3.a

the 2016 Regulations, to the extent that they require a permit for anything
that would have required consent made under section 109 of the Water Resources
Act 1991 immediately before the repeal of that section;

7.3.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraphs 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 to the Water Resources Act 1991 that
require consent or approval for the carrying out of works;

7.3.c

section 23 of the Land Drainage Act 1991  (prohibition of obstructions etc. in
watercourses); and

7.3.d

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66 of the Land Drainage Act
1991 (powers to make byelaws) that require consent or approval for the
carrying out of works.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

8

8.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990  (summary proceedings by persons aggrieved by statutory
nuisance) in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section
79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to
health or a nuisance) no order may be made, and no fine may be imposed, under
section 82(2) of that Act if—

8.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

8.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and
that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
project in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of noise
on construction site), or a consent given under section 61 (prior consent for
work on construction site) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ; or

8.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project
and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

8.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

8.1.b.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is
attributable to the use of the authorised project which is being used in
compliance with requirement 27 (control of noise during operational phase and
during maintenance); or

8.1.b.ii

is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot
reasonably be avoided.

8.2

Section 61(9) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the
consent relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised project.

### Streets

#### Street works

9

9.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so
much of any of the streets specified in Schedule 2 (streets subject to street
works) as is within the Order limits and may—

9.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel within or under it;

9.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

9.1.c

remove or use all earth and materials in or under the street;

9.1.d

place and keep apparatus under the street;

9.1.e

maintain apparatus under the street or change its position; and

9.1.f

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e).

9.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

9.3

In this article “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works
in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

#### Public rights of way

10

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project, temporarily stop up each of the public rights of way specified in
column (2) of Schedule 3 (public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up)
to the extent specified in column (3), by reference to the letters shown on
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan.

#### Temporary stopping up of streets

11

11.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
project, may temporarily stop up, divert and alter any street and may for any
reasonable time—

11.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street; and

11.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

11.2

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may, during and for the
purposes of carrying out the authorised project, use any street temporarily
stopped up, diverted or altered under the powers conferred by this article
within the Order limits as a temporary working site.

11.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, diversion or
alteration of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no such
access.

11.4

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily stop up, divert
or alter the streets specified in column 2 of Schedule 4 (streets to be
stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters and numbers
shown on the streets to be temporarily stopped up plan, in column 3 of that
schedule.

11.5

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, divert, alter or use as a
temporary working site—

11.5.a

any street referred to in paragraph (4) without first consulting the street
authority; and

11.5.b

any other street without the consent of the street authority, which may attach
reasonable conditions to the consent.

11.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

11.7

If a street authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (5)(b) that
street authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Access to works

12

12.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project—

12.1.a

form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the
locations specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 5 (access to works);
and

12.1.b

with the approval of the relevant planning authority after consultation with
the highway authority in accordance with requirement 22 (highway accesses),
form and lay out such other means of access or improve existing means of
access, at such locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably
requires for the purposes of the authorised project.

12.2

If the relevant planning authority fails to notify the undertaker of its
decision within 28 days of receiving an application for approval under
paragraph (1)(b) that relevant planning authority is deemed to have granted
approval.

#### Agreements with street authorities

13

13.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

13.1.a

any temporary stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by
this Order; or

13.1.b

the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article 9(1)
(street works).

13.2

Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)—

13.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

13.2.b

include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a
reasonable time for the completion of the works; and

13.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider
appropriate.

#### Application of the 1991 Act

14

14.1

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (2) that apply in
relation to the carrying out of street works under that Act and any
regulations made or code of practice issued or approved under those provisions
apply (with all necessary modifications) in relation to—

14.1.a

the carrying out of works under article 9 (street works); and

14.1.b

the temporary stopping up, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a
street by the undertaker under article 11 (temporary stopping up of streets),

whether or not the carrying out of the works or the stopping up, alteration or
diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

14.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act  are—

14.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), section 55 (notice of starting date of works);

14.2.b

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

14.2.c

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

14.2.d

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

14.2.e

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

14.2.f

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);

14.2.g

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

14.2.h

all provisions of that Act that apply for the purposes of the provisions
referred to in subparagraphs (a) to (g).

14.3

Sections 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (2) has effect as if
references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works included a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

### Supplemental Powers

#### Discharge of water and works to watercourses

15

15.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) below the undertaker may use any watercourse
or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project and for that purpose may
lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

15.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991  (right to
communicate with public sewers).

15.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

15.4

The undertaker must not carry out any works to any public sewer or drain
pursuant to paragraph (1) except—

15.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

15.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

15.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

15.6

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under Regulation 12(1)(b) of the 2016 Regulations insofar as the discharge
activity comes within the definition contained within the 2016 Regulations.

15.7

Subject to paragraph (8) below, the undertaker may in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project, alter the bed or banks
of, and construct works in, under, over or within any watercourse and may
divert, alter, interrupt or obstruct the flow of any watercourse within the
Order limits.

15.8

The undertaker must not:

15.8.a

undertake any works within 8 metres of, any watercourse forming part of a
river, or within 16 metres of a tidally influenced main river without the
consent of the Environment Agency, which must not be unreasonably withheld but
may be subject to reasonable conditions; and

15.8.b

undertake any works to any ordinary watercourse without the consent of the
relevant drainage authorities or Norfolk County Council as the case may be,
which must not be unreasonably withheld but may be subject to reasonable
conditions.

15.9

In this article—

15.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, the Environment Agency, a relevant drainage authority or a local
authority;

15.9.b

“ ordinary watercourse ” has the meaning given in the Land Drainage Act 1991;

15.9.c

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991 have the same meaning as in that Act.

15.10

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify the undertaker of a decision within 28 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraph (3), approval under paragraph (4)(a) or consent
under paragraph (8), that person is deemed to have granted consent or given
approval, as the case may be.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land onshore

16

16.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised project
and—

16.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

16.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

16.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations on such land; and

16.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

16.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner or occupier of the land.

16.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

16.3.a

must, if so required on entering the land, produce written evidence of their
authority to do so; and

16.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

16.4

No trial holes may be made under this article—

16.4.a

in land forming a railway without the consent of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited; or

16.4.b

in land held by or in right of the Crown without the consent of the Crown.

16.5

No trial holes may be made under this article—

16.5.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

16.5.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

16.6

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

16.7

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

16.7.a

under paragraph (5)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

16.7.b

under paragraph (5)(b) in the case of a street authority;

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

16.8

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto, or possession of land under this article to the
same extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this
Order by virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act.

#### Removal of human remains

17

17.1

In this article, “ the specified land ” means the land within the Order
limits.

17.2

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains in the specified land, it must remove those human
remains from the specified land, or cause them to be removed, in accordance
with the following provisions of this article.

17.3

Before any such remains are removed from the specified land, the undertaker
must give notice of the intended removal, describing the specified land and
stating the general effect of the following provisions of this article, by—

17.3.a

publishing a notice once in each of 2 successive weeks in a newspaper
circulating in the area of the authorised project; and

17.3.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land.

17.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph (3), the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
relevant planning authority.

17.5

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph (3), any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred in the specified land may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

17.6

Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

17.6.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

17.6.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium

and that person must, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (11).

17.7

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph (5) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims
to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question must be
determined on the application of either party in a summary manner by the
county court, and the court may make an order specifying who must remove the
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

17.8

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

17.9

If—

17.9.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that
paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the
specified land; or

17.9.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56
days after the giving of the notice, but the person who gave the notice fails
to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days; or

17.9.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7)
any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove
the remains; or

17.9.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph (10), the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be re-interred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves must be re-interred in
individual containers which must be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

17.10

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(5) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and
that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

17.11

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

17.11.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation must be sent by the undertaker to
the Registrar General giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

17.11.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph (9) must be sent by the undertaker to the relevant
planning authority mentioned in paragraph (4).

17.12

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

17.13

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

17.14

Section 25 of the Burial Act 1857  (offence of removal of body from burial
ground) does not apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this
article.

### Powers of Acquisition

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

18

18.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the construction, operation and maintenance of the authorised
project or to facilitate, or is incidental to, it.

18.2

This article is subject to article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily), article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
the imposition of restrictive covenants), article 24 (acquisition of subsoil
and airspace only), article 25 (rights under or over streets), article 26
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project) and article 41
(Crown rights).

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

19

19.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

19.1.a

no notice to treat may be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act (which makes
provision for compulsory purchase under the Acquisition of Land Act 1981); and

19.1.b

no declaration may be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 22 (application of the 1981 Act).

19.2

The authority conferred by article 26 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised project) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and the imposition of restrictive covenants

20

20.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may acquire
compulsorily such rights or impose restrictive covenants over the Order land
as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under
article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as by
acquiring rights already in existence.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, article 21 (private rights) and
article 29 (statutory undertakers), in the case of the Order land specified in
column (1) of Schedule 6 (land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired)
the undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to the
acquisition of such new rights and the imposition of restrictive covenants for
the purpose specified in relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule.

20.3

Subject to section 8 (other provisions as to divided land) of the 1965 Act, as
modified by paragraph 5 of Schedule 7 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights), where the
undertaker acquires an existing right over land or restrictive covenant under
paragraph (1), the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in
that land.

20.4

Schedule 7 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of restrictive covenants.

20.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights under paragraphs (1) and (2)
is required for the purpose of diverting, replacing or protecting apparatus of
a statutory undertaker, the undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary
of State, transfer the power to acquire such rights to the statutory
undertaker in question.

20.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

#### Private rights

21

21.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to compulsory acquisition under article 18
(compulsory acquisition of land) are suspended and unenforceable or, where so
notified by the undertaker to the person with the benefit of such private
rights or restrictive covenants, extinguished in so far as in either case
their continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the powers under
article 18—

21.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

21.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry),

whichever is the earliest.

21.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the
imposition of restrictive covenants under article 20 (compulsory acquisition
of rights) cease to have effect in so far as their continuance would be
inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance with the restrictive
covenant—

21.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired
compulsorily, by agreement or through the grant of lease of the land by
agreement); or

21.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earliest.

21.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is
taken, for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.

21.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 of the 2008 Act to be determined,
in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act (determination of questions
of disputed compensation).

21.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138 of
the 2008 Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory
undertakers etc.) or article 29 (statutory undertakers) applies.

21.6

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to—

21.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

21.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

21.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land;

21.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land; or

21.6.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of the land,

such that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified
in the notice; or

21.6.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

21.7

If an agreement referred to in paragraph (6)(b)—

21.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

21.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether the title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

21.8

Reference in this article to private rights over land includes reference to
any trusts or incidents to which the land is subject.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

22

22.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

22.2

The 1981 Act, as so applied, has effect with the following modifications.

22.3

In section 1 (application of act), for subsection (2), substitute—

22.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

22.4

Section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration) is omitted.

22.5

Section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) is omitted .

22.6

In section 5B (extension of time limit during challenge) —

22.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the 2008
Act (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting development
consent)” ; and

22.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order
2022” .

22.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration), in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

22.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), the words
“(as modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)” are omitted.

22.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) , for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

22.9.2

But see article 24(3) (acquisition of subsoil and airspace only) of the
Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022, which excludes the acquisition
of subsoil and airspace only from this Schedule.

.

22.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act must be construed as references to
the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 of the 2008 Act (as modified by article
23 (application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

23

23.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

23.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge) —

23.2.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the 2008
Act (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting development
consent)” ; and

23.2.b

for “the three year period specified in section 4” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 19 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order
2022” .

23.3

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 19 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind
Farm Order 2022” .

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil or airspace of the land referred to in paragraph (1) of article 18
(compulsory acquisition of land) or article 20 (compulsory acquisition of
rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

24.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil or
airspace of land under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not required to
acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

24.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

24.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act, as modified by paragraph 6 of Schedule 7;

24.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

24.3.c

Section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest,
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

24.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where the undertaker acquires a cellar,
vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or factory
or airspace above a house, building or factory.

#### Rights under or over streets

25

25.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of or air-
space over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised project and may use the subsoil or air-space for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised project.

25.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

25.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

25.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

25.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

25.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of
that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

25.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to
be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project

26

26.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project—

26.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

26.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 8 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule; and

26.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

26.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land;

26.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access),
running tracks, security fencing, bridges, structures and buildings on that
land;

26.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a working site with access to the working
site in connection with the authorised project; and

26.1.e

construct any works, or use the land, as specified in relation to that land in
column 3 of Schedule 8, or any mitigation works identified in the
environmental statement or required pursuant to the requirements in Schedule
1.

26.2

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

26.3

The undertaker must not remain in possession of any land under this article
for longer than reasonably necessary and in any event must not, without the
agreement of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under
this article—

26.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 8; or

26.3.b

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless
the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served a notice of entry
under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the
1981 Act in relation to that land.

26.4

Unless the undertaker has served notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act or otherwise
acquired the land or rights over land subject to temporary possession, the
undertaker must before giving up possession of land of which temporary
possession has been taken under this article, remove all works and restore the
land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but the
undertaker is not required to—

26.4.a

replace any building, structure, drain or electric line removed under this
article;

26.4.b

remove any drainage works installed by the undertaker under this article;

26.4.c

remove any new road surface or other improvements carried out under this
article to any street specified in Schedule 2 (streets subject to street
works); or

26.4.d

restore the land on which any works have been carried out under paragraph (1)
insofar as the works relate to mitigation works identified in the
environmental statement or required pursuant to the requirements in Schedule
1.

26.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land which
temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of any
power conferred by this article.

26.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

26.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

26.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(i) except that the undertaker is not precluded from—

26.8.a

acquiring new rights or imposing restrictive covenants over any part of that
land under article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights) to the extent that
such land is listed in column (1) of Schedule 6 (land in which only new rights
etc., may be acquired); or

26.8.b

acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land
under article 24 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only).

26.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

26.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project

27

27.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised project, the undertaker may—

27.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised project; and

27.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

27.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

27.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

27.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

27.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

27.4

The undertaker is not required to comply with paragraph (3) in a case of
emergency and if an emergency exists they must—

27.4.a

give to the owners and occupiers of the land in question notice of its
intended entry or (as the case may be) of its having entered onto the land as
soon as is reasonably practicable; and

27.4.b

comply with paragraph (1) so far as is reasonably possible in the
circumstances.

27.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised project for which possession of the land was taken.

27.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

27.7

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

27.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (7),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

27.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph (7).

27.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

27.11

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

27.12

In this article “ the maintenance period ” means—

27.12.a

in relation to the maintenance of any tree, hedge or shrub planted as part of
an approved landscaping management scheme with the intention of screening the
onshore project substation, the period referred to in requirement 19(2);

27.12.b

for the district of North Norfolk, the period referred to in requirement 19(2)
in relation to the maintenance of landscaping; and

27.12.c

in relation to any other part of the authorised project, the period of 5 years
beginning with the date on which the authorised project first exports
electricity to the national electricity transmission network.

#### Extinguishment of private rights and restrictive covenants relating to apparatus removed from land subject to temporary possession

28

28.1

This article applies to any Order land of which the undertaker takes temporary
possession under article 26 (temporary use of land for carrying out the
authorised project).

28.2

Subject to paragraph (3), all private rights or restrictive covenants in
relation to apparatus belonging to National Grid removed from any land to
which this article applies will remain intact from the date on which the
undertaker gives up temporary possession of that land.

28.3

If the undertaker, in agreement with National Grid, gives notice before the
date that the undertaker gives up temporary possession of the land that any or
all of the private rights or restrictive covenants in relation to apparatus
belonging to National Grid removed from the land to which this article applies
will be extinguished, such rights will be extinguished.

28.4

Any extinguishment of rights by paragraph (3) does not give rise to any cause
of action relating to the presence on or in the land of any foundations and
the undertaker is not required to remove foundations when giving up temporary
possession).

#### Statutory undertakers

29

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 16 (protective provisions) the
undertaker may—

29.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plan
within the Order land; and

29.b

extinguish the rights of, remove, relocate the rights of or reposition the
apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

30

30.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 29 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

30.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 29, any person who is—

30.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

30.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

30.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

30.4

In this paragraph—

    “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the Communications Act 2003; and         “ public utility undertaker
” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

### Operations

#### Operation of generating station

31

31.1

The undertaker is hereby authorised to operate the generating station
comprised in the authorised project.

31.2

This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any other legislation that may be required from time
to time to authorise the operation of an electricity generating station.

#### Deemed marine licences under the 2009 Act

32

The marine licences set out in Schedules 9, 10, 11 and 12 are deemed to have
been granted to the undertaker under Part 4 (marine licensing) of the 2009 Act
for the licensed marine activities set out in Part 3, and subject to the
conditions set out in Part 4, of each of those Schedules.

### Miscellaneous and General

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

33

33.1

This article applies to—

33.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised project or the right to operate the same; and

33.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any
part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

33.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

33.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the
rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any
such agreement so as to—

33.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

33.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

33.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease).

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

34

Development consent granted by this Order is treated as specific planning
permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in
which land is to be treated as operational land).

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

35

35.1

Subject to article 36 (trees subject to tree preservation orders), the
undertaker may fell or lop or cut back any roots of any tree or shrub near any
part of the authorised project, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary
to do so to prevent the tree or shrub from obstructing or interfering with the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised project or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised project.

35.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

35.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

35.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project—

35.4.a

remove any hedgerows within the Order limits and specified in Schedule 13,
Part 3 (removal of hedgerows) and those hedgerows that, after assessment, are
not classed as important hedgerows specified in Schedule 13, Part 1 (removal
of potentially important hedgerows); and

35.4.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Schedule 13, Part 1 (removal of potentially important hedgerows) and Part 2
(removal of important hedgerows).

35.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

36

36.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker must not fell or lop or cut back the
roots of any tree within or overhanging land within the Order limits which is
the subject of a tree preservation order.

36.2

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree within or overhanging land within the
Order limits subject to a tree preservation order which was made after 28
February 2017 or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be
necessary to do so in order to prevent the tree from obstructing or
interfering with the construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised
project or any apparatus used in connection with the authorised project.

36.3

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (2)—

36.3.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

36.3.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
does not apply.

36.4

The authority given by paragraph (2) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

36.5

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (3),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Certification of plans etc

37

37.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of the following for certification
that they are true copies of the documents referred to in this Order—

37.1.a

the environmental statement (document reference 6.1);

37.1.b

the land plan (document reference 2.2);

37.1.c

the works plan (document reference 2.4);

37.1.d

the access to works plan (document reference 2.5);

37.1.e

the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan (document reference
2.6);

37.1.f

the streets to be temporarily stopped up plan (document reference 2.7);

37.1.g

the important hedgerows plan (document reference 2.11);

37.1.h

the book of reference (4.3);

37.1.i

the outline code of construction practice (8.1);

37.1.j

the design and access statement (8.3);

37.1.k

the outline written scheme of investigation (onshore) (8.5);

37.1.l

the outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) (8.6);

37.1.m

the outline landscape and ecological management strategy (8.7);

37.1.n

the outline traffic management plan (8.8);

37.1.o

the outline travel plan (8.9);

37.1.p

the outline access management plan (8.10);

37.1.q

the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan (8.11);

37.1.r

the offshore in principle monitoring plan (8.12);

37.1.s

the draft marine mammal mitigation protocol (8.13);

37.1.t

the outline project environmental management plan (document reference 8.14);

37.1.u

the outline scour protection and cable protection plan (document reference
8.16);

37.1.v

the in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of
Conservation site integrity plan (8.17);

37.1.w

the outline marine traffic monitoring strategy (8.18);

37.1.x

the outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan (8.19);

37.1.y

the outline Norfolk Vanguard Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area
of Conservation site integrity plan (8.20);

37.1.z

the outline operational drainage plan (8.21);

37.1.aa

the outline skills and employment strategy (8.22);

37.1.bb

the Development Principles (8.23);

37.1.cc

the Onshore Project Substation Masterplan (8.27); the Alde-Ore Estuary Special
Protection Area (SPA) – In Principle Compensation (8.24);

37.1.dd

the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation (SAC) – In
Principle Compensation (8.25); and

37.1.ee

the Flamborough and Filey Coast Special Protection Area (SPA) – In Principle
Compensation (8.26).

37.2

The outline landscape and ecological management strategy referred to at
paragraph (1)(m) shall include the mitigations that were agreed during the
examination of the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order in order to avoid
a net loss of trees in relation to the proposed trenched crossing at Colby
Road.

37.3

The outline traffic management plan referred to at paragraph (1)(n) shall
include the Highway Intervention and Highway Mitigation schemes that were
agreed during the examination of the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order
in order to reduce the residual traffic impacts on Cawston and the adverse
effects of construction traffic on Link 68 at Oulton.

37.4

Any other mitigations agreed during the examination of the Norfolk Boreas
Development Consent Order in relation to Work Nos. 4B-12 shall be included in
the relevant plan listed in paragraph (1) before submission to the Secretary
of State for certification.

37.5

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

37.6

Where a plan or document certified under paragraph (1)—

37.6.a

refers to a provision of this Order (including any specified requirement) when
it was in draft form; and

37.6.b

identifies that provision by a number, or combination of numbers and letters,
which is different from the number, or combination of numbers and letters by
which the corresponding provision of this Order is identified in the Order as
made,

the reference in the plan or document concerned must be construed for the
purposes of this Order as referring to the provision (if any) corresponding to
that provision in the Order as made.

#### Arbitration

38

38.1

Subject to article 41 (saving provisions for Trinity House), any difference
under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided for, must be
referred to and settled in arbitration in accordance with the rules at
Schedule 14 (arbitration rules) of this Order, by a single arbitrator to be
agreed upon by the parties, within 14 days of receipt of the notice of
arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within the time period
stipulated, to be appointed on application of either party (after giving
written notice to the other) by the Secretary of State.

38.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of the Secretary of State or the
Marine Management Organisation is required under any provision of this Order
shall not be subject to arbitration.

#### Procedure in relation to certain approvals etc

39

39.1

Where an application is made to or request is made of the relevant planning
authority, a highway authority, a street authority or the owner of a
watercourse, sewer or drain for any agreement or approval required or
contemplated by any of the provisions of the Order, such agreement or approval
must, if given, be given in writing and may not be unreasonably withheld.

39.2

Schedule 15 (procedure for discharge of requirements) has effect in relation
to all agreements or approvals granted, refused or withheld in relation to
requirements 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32,
33 and 34 in Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements).

#### Abatement of works abandoned or decayed

40

Where Work No. 1(a) to (e) or Work No. 2 or any part of those works is
abandoned or allowed to fall into decay the Secretary of State may, following
consultation with the undertaker, issue a written notice requiring the
undertaker at its own expense to repair and restore or remove Work Nos. 1(a)
to (e) or Work No. 2 or any relevant part of those works and, without
prejudice to any notice served under section 105(2) of the 2004 Act , to
restore the site of the relevant part(s) of Work Nos. 1(a) to (e) or Work No.
2 to a safe and proper condition within an area and to such an extent as may
be specified in the notice.

#### Saving provisions for Trinity House

41

Nothing in this Order prejudices or derogates from any of the rights, duties
or privileges of Trinity House.

#### Crown rights

42

42.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any licensee to take, use, enter on or
in any manner interfere with any land or rights of any description (including
any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any river, channel, creek, bay
or estuary)—

42.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

42.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

42.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

42.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) which is for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of
the Crown.

42.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Service of Notices

43

43.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

43.1.a

by post; or

43.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

43.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (6) to (9), by
electronic transmission.

43.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

43.3

For the purposes of section 7 of the Interpretation Act 1978( ) (references to
service by post) as it applies for the purposes of this article, the proper
address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a notice or
document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address for
service, that address, and otherwise—

43.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

43.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

43.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having an interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

43.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

43.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

43.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

43.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

43.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

43.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

43.5.d

in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for subsequent reference.

43.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within seven days of receipt that the
recipient requires a paper copy of all or any part of that notice or other
document the sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably
practicable.

43.7

Any consent to the use of an electronic transmission by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

43.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

43.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given that person for that purpose; and

43.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than seven days after the date on
which the notice is given.

43.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

#### Protective provisions

44

Schedule 16 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Compensation to protect the coherence of the national site network

45

Schedule 17 (compensation to protect the coherence of the national site
network) has effect.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy &
Industrial Strategy     Gareth Leigh   Head of Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

  Authorised Project

Article 2

##### Authorised Development

1

A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14 and
15 of the 2008 Act which is located in the North Sea approximately 47km from
the Norfolk coast, comprising—

###### Offshore

Work No. 1 a an offshore wind turbine generating station   with a gross
electrical output of over 100 MW   comprising   up to 145 wind turbine
generators   each fixed to the seabed by one of the following foundation
types: monopile (piled or suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson),
or gravity base fitted with rotating blades and situated within the area shown
on the works plan and further comprising (b) to (e) below; b up to two
accommodation platforms fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the works
plan by one of the following foundation types: jacket (piled or suction
caisson) or gravity base; c up to two meteorological masts fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plan by one of the following foundation
types: monopile (piled or suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson)
or gravity base; d up to two LIDAR measurement buoys fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plan by one of the following foundation
types: monopile (piled) or floating, and up to two wave measurement buoys
fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the works plan by one foundation
type (floating); and e a network of subsea array cables and fibre optic cables
within the area shown on the works plan between the wind turbine generators,
and between the wind turbine generators and Work No.2 including one or more
offshore cable crossings; and associated development within the meaning of
section 115(2) (development for which development consent may be granted) of
the 2008 Act comprising—

Work No. 2 – up to two offshore electrical platforms fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plan by one of the following foundation
types: jacket (piled or suction caisson) or gravity base;

Work No. 3 – a network of subsea cables and fibre optic cables within the area
shown on the works plans comprising Work No. 2 for the transmission of
electricity and electronic communications between the offshore electrical
platforms and including one or more offshore cable crossings;

Work No. 4A – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic cables between
Work No. 2 and Work No. 4B consisting of subsea cables and fibre optic cables
along routes within the Order limits seaward of MLWS including one or more
offshore cable crossings;

###### Intertidal area

Work No. 4B – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic cables between
Work No. 4A and Work No. 4C consisting of subsea cables and fibre optic cables
along routes within the Order limits between MLWS and MHWS at Happisburgh
South, North Norfolk;

###### In the county of Norfolk, district of North Norfolk

Work No. 4C – the onshore transmission works at the landfall consisting of up
to two transition jointing pits and up to four cables to be laid in ducts
underground and associated fibre optic cables laid within cable ducts
underground from MHWS at Work No. 4B to Work No. 5;

Work No. 5 – onshore transmission works consisting of up to four cables to be
laid in ducts and up to four additional cable ducts for the wind farm
authorised by the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order laid underground
and associated fibre optic cables laid underground within cable ducts from
Work No. 4C to Work No. 6;

###### In the county of Norfolk, district of Broadland

Work No. 6 – onshore transmission works consisting of up to four cables to be
laid in ducts and up to four additional cable ducts for the wind farm
authorised by the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order laid underground
and associated fibre optic cables laid underground within cable ducts from
Work No. 5 to Work No. 7;

###### In the county of Norfolk, district of Breckland

Work No. 7 – onshore transmission works consisting of up to four cables to be
laid in ducts and up to four additional cable ducts for the wind farm
authorised by the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order laid underground
and associated fibre optic cables laid underground within cable ducts from
Work No. 6 to Work No. 8A;

Work No. 8A – onshore project substation to the east of the existing National
Grid substation at Necton;

Work No.8B – surface water management, bunding, embankments, boundary
treatments and landscaping in connection with Work No. 8A;

Work No. 9 – works consisting of the connection of up to twelve interface
cables, laid underground and associated fibre optic cables laid underground
within cable ducts from Work No. 8A to the extended National Grid substation
at Necton;

Work No. 10A – an extension to the existing National Grid substation at
Necton;

Work No. 10B – additional surface water management for the extended National
Grid substation at Necton in connection with Work No. 10A;

Work No. 10C – bunding, embankments, boundary treatments and landscaping in
connection with Work No. 10A;

Work No. 11 – the removal of one existing pylon and construction of two new
permanent pylons, as shown marked by (W) and (E) on the works plans, and the
installation of conductors, insulators and fittings on to the pylons;

Work No. 11A – the overhead line modification;

Work No. 12 – permanent accesses connecting the A47 to Work No.8A, Work No.
10A and Work No. 10B including highway widening works on the A47 to create a
new junction; and in connection with Work Nos. 1 to 4B and to the extent that
they do not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated
development comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for
the purposes of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised
project and which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the
environmental statement including— a scour protection around the foundations
of the offshore structures; b cable protection measures such as the placement
of rock and/or concrete mattresses, with or without frond devices; c the
removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work Nos.
1 to 4B and the disposal of up to 49,211,390 cubic metres of inert material of
natural origin within the Order limits produced during construction drilling,
seabed preparation for foundation works, cable installation preparation such
as sandwave clearance, boulder clearance and pre-trenching and excavation of
horizontal directional drilling exit pits; d removal of static fishing
equipment; and e disposal of drill arisings in connection with any foundation
drilling up to a total of 414,761 cubic metres; and in connection with Work
Nos. 4C to 12 and to the extent that they do not otherwise form part of any
such work, further associated development comprising such other works as may
be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
relevant part of the authorised development and which fall within the scope of
the work assessed by the environmental statement, including— a works to secure
vehicular and/or pedestrian means of access including the creation of new
tracks, footpaths, and/or widening, creation of passing places, upgrades,
creation of bell mouths, creation of temporary slip roads and improvements of
existing tracks, footpaths and roads; b temporary access tracks and running
tracks both alongside and used for the purpose of constructing Work Nos. 5, 6,
7, and 9; c car parking areas, welfare facilities, temporary offices and
workshops; d bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping, boundary treatments and
works to mitigate any effects of the construction, operation or maintenance of
the authorised project; e spoil and equipment storage; f jointing pits,
manholes, kiosks, marker posts, link boxes and other works associated with
laying ducts and/or cables and fibre optic cables and/or pulling cables and
fibre optic cables through cable ducts; g water supply works, foul drainage
provision, surface water management systems, temporary drainage during
installation of ducts and/or cables and fibre optic cables and at the onshore
project substation and culverting; h works of restoration; i fencing or other
means of enclosure; j works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere
with, non-navigable rivers, streams or watercourses; k working sites and
mobilisation areas in connection with the construction of the authorised
development; l bowsers, septic tanks, generators and standby generators; m
ramps and temporary bridges used for the purpose of constructing Work Nos. 5,
6 7, and 9; n works for the provision of apparatus including cabling, water
and electricity supply works; o habitat creation and archaeological works; and
p such other works, apparatus, plant and machinery of whatever nature as may
be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
relevant part of the authorised project; and in connection with Work No. 11
and Work No. 11A and to the extent that they do not otherwise form part of any
such work, further associated development comprising such other works as may
be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the
relevant part of the authorised development and which fall within the scope
the work assessed by the environmental statement, including— a the
construction of a temporary overhead electric line comprising three temporary
pylons, conductors, insulators and fittings between pylons 4VV123 and 4VV127;
and b the temporary diversion of the overhead line onto the temporary pylons.

2

The grid coordinates for that part of the authorised project which is seaward
of MHWS are specified below—

Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) 1
52° 55′ 0.308″ N 3° 4′ 42.589″ E 269 52° 48′ 36.617″ N 1° 39′ 45.198″ E 2 52°
49′ 53.975″ N 3° 5′ 22.789″ E 270 52° 48′ 36.608″ N 1° 39′ 45.442″ E 3 52° 46′
19.050″ N 3° 2′ 16.682″ E 271 52° 48′ 36.111″ N 1° 39′ 58.227″ E 4 52° 45′
10.584″ N 2° 45′ 33.989″ E 272 52° 47′ 53.162″ N 1° 57′ 17.842″ E 5 52° 51′
41.636″ N 2° 45′ 34.220″ E 273 52° 47′ 51.688″ N 1° 57′ 48.405″ E 6 53° 2′
36.817″ N 2° 34′ 16.309″ E 274 52° 47′ 50.436″ N 1° 58′ 0.642″ E 7 52° 49′
38.834″ N 2° 34′ 15.809″ E 275 52° 47′ 48.214″ N 1° 58′ 12.320″ E 8 52° 48′
47.472″ N 2° 33′ 28.343″ E 276 52° 47′ 42.495″ N 1° 58′ 33.820″ E 9 52° 48′
3.133″ N 2° 26′ 37.427″ E 277 52° 47′ 36.793″ N 1° 58′ 49.157″ E 10 52° 56′
9.089″ N 2° 18′ 33.231″ E 278 52° 47′ 27.713″ N 1° 59′ 7.719″ E 11 52° 45′
11.467″ N 2° 45′ 30.454″ E 279 52° 47′ 19.963″ N 1° 59′ 19.409″ E 12 52° 45′
11.943″ N 2° 45′ 28.711″ E 280 52° 47′ 10.581″ N 1° 59′ 30.409″ E 13 52° 45′
12.967″ N 2° 45′ 25.281″ E 281 52° 45′ 3.401″ N 2° 1′ 51.874″ E 14 52° 45′
14.081″ N 2° 45′ 21.928″ E 282 52° 45′ 3.127″ N 2° 1′ 52.189″ E 15 52° 45′
15.285″ N 2° 45′ 18.661″ E 283 52° 45′ 2.287″ N 2° 1′ 53.183″ E 16 52° 45′
15.920″ N 2° 45′ 17.061″ E 284 52° 45′ 1.635″ N 2° 1′ 53.925″ E 17 52° 45′
17.254″ N 2° 45′ 13.933″ E 285 52° 45′ 1.351″ N 2° 1′ 54.277″ E 18 52° 45′
17.952″ N 2° 45′ 12.407″ E 286 52° 45′ 0.388″ N 2° 1′ 55.510″ E 19 52° 45′
19.409″ N 2° 45′ 9.432″ E 287 52° 45′ 0.110″ N 2° 1′ 55.877″ E 20 52° 45′
20.533″ N 2° 45′ 7.335″ E 288 52° 44′ 59.840″ N 2° 1′ 56.258″ E 21 52° 45′
20.944″ N 2° 45′ 6.567″ E 289 52° 44′ 58.926″ N 2° 1′ 57.587″ E 22 52° 45′
21.741″ N 2° 45′ 5.178″ E 290 52° 44′ 58.663″ N 2° 1′ 57.982″ E 23 52° 45′
23.389″ N 2° 45′ 2.488″ E 291 52° 44′ 58.407″ N 2° 1′ 58.390″ E 24 52° 45′
24.240″ N 2° 45′ 1.188″ E 292 52° 44′ 57.545″ N 2° 1′ 59.812″ E 25 52° 45′
25.993″ N 2° 44′ 58.685″ E 293 52° 44′ 57.298″ N 2° 2′ 0.233″ E 26 52° 45′
27.812″ N 2° 44′ 56.313″ E 294 52° 44′ 57.059″ N 2° 2′ 0.667″ E 27 52° 45′
29.693″ N 2° 44′ 54.076″ E 295 52° 44′ 56.253″ N 2° 2′ 2.175″ E 28 52° 45′
31.632″ N 2° 44′ 51.980″ E 296 52° 44′ 56.022″ N 2° 2′ 2.621″ E 29 52° 45′
32.623″ N 2° 44′ 50.985″ E 297 52° 44′ 55.800″ N 2° 2′ 3.078″ E 30 52° 45′
33.626″ N 2° 44′ 50.027″ E 298 52° 44′ 55.053″ N 2° 2′ 4.667″ E 31 52° 45′
35.671″ N 2° 44′ 48.223″ E 299 52° 44′ 54.839″ N 2° 2′ 5.136″ E 32 52° 45′
37.763″ N 2° 44′ 46.570″ E 300 52° 44′ 54.635″ N 2° 2′ 5.615″ E 33 52° 45′
39.897″ N 2° 44′ 45.071″ E 301 52° 44′ 53.950″ N 2° 2′ 7.278″ E 34 52° 45′
42.069″ N 2° 44′ 43.731″ E 302 52° 44′ 53.755″ N 2° 2′ 7.768″ E 35 52° 45′
43.168″ N 2° 44′ 43.121″ E 303 52° 44′ 53.569″ N 2° 2′ 8.268″ E 36 52° 45′
44.275″ N 2° 44′ 42.551″ E 304 52° 44′ 52.949″ N 2° 2′ 9.998″ E 37 52° 45′
46.511″ N 2° 44′ 41.534″ E 305 52° 44′ 52.773″ N 2° 2′ 10.507″ E 38 52° 45′
47.638″ N 2° 44′ 41.087″ E 306 52° 44′ 52.607″ N 2° 2′ 11.025″ E 39 52° 45′
48.833″ N 2° 44′ 40.681″ E 307 52° 44′ 52.053″ N 2° 2′ 12.816″ E 40 52° 46′
9.781″ N 2° 44′ 40.687″ E 308 52° 44′ 51.897″ N 2° 2′ 13.343″ E 41 52° 46′
46.724″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 309 52° 44′ 51.751″ N 2° 2′ 13.877″ E 42 52° 46′
48.173″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 310 52° 44′ 51.267″ N 2° 2′ 15.722″ E 43 52° 46′
52.974″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 311 52° 44′ 51.131″ N 2° 2′ 16.263″ E 44 52° 46′
55.152″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 312 52° 44′ 51.006″ N 2° 2′ 16.812″ E 45 52° 46′
57.976″ N 2° 44′ 40.699″ E 313 52° 44′ 50.593″ N 2° 2′ 18.703″ E 46 52° 47′
0.395″ N 2° 44′ 40.053″ E 314 52° 44′ 50.478″ N 2° 2′ 19.257″ E 47 52° 47′
1.558″ N 2° 44′ 39.624″ E 315 52° 44′ 50.373″ N 2° 2′ 19.818″ E 48 52° 47′
1.970″ N 2° 44′ 39.479″ E 316 52° 44′ 50.034″ N 2° 2′ 21.747″ E 49 52° 47′
2.003″ N 2° 44′ 39.463″ E 317 52° 44′ 49.940″ N 2° 2′ 22.313″ E 50 52° 47′
3.144″ N 2° 44′ 38.936″ E 318 52° 44′ 49.857″ N 2° 2′ 22.883″ E 51 52° 47′
4.295″ N 2° 44′ 38.272″ E 319 52° 44′ 49.592″ N 2° 2′ 24.844″ E 52 52° 47′
4.681″ N 2° 44′ 38.004″ E 320 52° 44′ 49.520″ N 2° 2′ 25.418″ E 53 52° 47′
4.998″ N 2° 44′ 37.816″ E 321 52° 44′ 49.459″ N 2° 2′ 25.996″ E 54 52° 47′
5.524″ N 2° 44′ 37.450″ E 322 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 2′ 27.980″ E 55 52° 47′
6.616″ N 2° 44′ 36.554″ E 323 52° 44′ 49.218″ N 2° 2′ 28.561″ E 56 52° 47′
7.671″ N 2° 44′ 35.546″ E 324 52° 44′ 49.179″ N 2° 2′ 29.143″ E 57 52° 47′
8.686″ N 2° 44′ 34.431″ E 325 52° 44′ 49.065″ N 2° 2′ 31.144″ E 58 52° 47′
9.657″ N 2° 44′ 33.214″ E 326 52° 44′ 49.037″ N 2° 2′ 31.728″ E 59 52° 47′
10.579″ N 2° 44′ 31.898″ E 327 52° 44′ 49.021″ N 2° 2′ 32.314″ E 60 52° 47′
11.449″ N 2° 44′ 30.489″ E 328 52° 44′ 48.989″ N 2° 2′ 34.021″ E 61 52° 47′
12.264″ N 2° 44′ 28.993″ E 329 52° 44′ 48.983″ N 2° 2′ 34.638″ E 62 52° 47′
13.021″ N 2° 44′ 27.415″ E 330 52° 44′ 49.220″ N 2° 15′ 49.970″ E 63 52° 47′
13.715″ N 2° 44′ 25.762″ E 331 52° 44′ 49.236″ N 2° 15′ 51.345″ E 64 52° 47′
14.346″ N 2° 44′ 24.040″ E 332 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 15′ 53.169″ E 65 52° 47′
14.910″ N 2° 44′ 22.257″ E 333 52° 44′ 49.284″ N 2° 15′ 53.754″ E 66 52° 47′
15.404″ N 2° 44′ 20.418″ E 334 52° 44′ 49.311″ N 2° 15′ 54.339″ E 67 52° 47′
15.784″ N 2° 44′ 18.728″ E 335 52° 44′ 49.422″ N 2° 15′ 56.340″ E 68 52° 47′
15.918″ N 2° 44′ 18.041″ E 336 52° 44′ 49.460″ N 2° 15′ 56.922″ E 69 52° 47′
16.179″ N 2° 44′ 16.606″ E 337 52° 44′ 49.509″ N 2° 15′ 57.503″ E 70 52° 47′
16.456″ N 2° 44′ 14.647″ E 338 52° 44′ 49.680″ N 2° 15′ 59.308″ E 71 52° 47′
16.520″ N 2° 44′ 14.023″ E 339 52° 44′ 49.731″ N 2° 15′ 59.809″ E 72 52° 47′
16.658″ N 2° 44′ 12.664″ E 340 52° 44′ 49.791″ N 2° 16′ 0.309″ E 73 52° 47′
16.784″ N 2° 44′ 10.663″ E 341 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 74 52° 47′
16.834″ N 2° 44′ 8.653″ E 342 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 75 52° 47′
16.807″ N 2° 44′ 6.642″ E 343 52° 45′ 49.555″ N 2° 23′ 47.080″ E 76 52° 47′
16.703″ N 2° 44′ 4.638″ E 344 52° 45′ 49.556″ N 2° 23′ 47.093″ E 77 52° 47′
16.559″ N 2° 44′ 3.046″ E 345 52° 45′ 49.762″ N 2° 23′ 48.593″ E 78 52° 47′
15.589″ N 2° 43′ 55.247″ E 346 52° 45′ 50.105″ N 2° 23′ 50.522″ E 79 52° 47′
14.341″ N 2° 43′ 45.216″ E 347 52° 45′ 50.521″ N 2° 23′ 52.412″ E 80 52° 47′
13.615″ N 2° 43′ 39.381″ E 348 52° 45′ 51.008″ N 2° 23′ 54.255″ E 81 52° 47′
13.538″ N 2° 43′ 38.765″ E 349 52° 45′ 51.565″ N 2° 23′ 56.044″ E 82 52° 43′
46.039″ N 2° 16′ 19.075″ E 350 52° 45′ 52.188″ N 2° 23′ 57.772″ E 83 52° 43′
45.182″ N 2° 16′ 10.004″ E 351 52° 45′ 52.876″ N 2° 23′ 59.431″ E 84 52° 43′
44.634″ N 2° 16′ 0.162″ E 352 52° 45′ 53.626″ N 2° 24′ 1.017″ E 85 52° 43′
44.531″ N 2° 15′ 54.221″ E 353 52° 45′ 54.434″ N 2° 24′ 2.521″ E 86 52° 43′
44.490″ N 2° 15′ 51.462″ E 354 52° 45′ 55.299″ N 2° 24′ 3.939″ E 87 52° 43′
44.512″ N 2° 7′ 23.550″ E 355 52° 45′ 56.215″ N 2° 24′ 5.265″ E 88 52° 42′
44.166″ N 2° 3′ 14.512″ E 356 52° 45′ 57.180″ N 2° 24′ 6.493″ E 89 52° 42′
43.152″ N 2° 3′ 9.802″ E 357 52° 45′ 58.191″ N 2° 24′ 7.619″ E 90 52° 42′
42.369″ N 2° 3′ 4.946″ E 358 52° 45′ 59.242″ N 2° 24′ 8.639″ E 91 52° 42′
31.534″ N 2° 1′ 44.644″ E 359 52° 46′ 0.330″ N 2° 24′ 9.547″ E 92 52° 42′
31.056″ N 2° 1′ 40.338″ E 360 52° 46′ 1.450″ N 2° 24′ 10.341″ E 93 52° 42′
30.948″ N 2° 1′ 39.044″ E 361 52° 46′ 2.598″ N 2° 24′ 11.017″ E 94 52° 42′
30.701″ N 2° 1′ 34.686″ E 362 52° 46′ 3.770″ N 2° 24′ 11.573″ E 95 52° 42′
30.654″ N 2° 1′ 30.309″ E 363 52° 46′ 4.960″ N 2° 24′ 12.007″ E 96 52° 42′
30.675″ N 2° 1′ 29.003″ E 364 52° 46′ 6.165″ N 2° 24′ 12.317″ E 97 52° 42′
30.833″ N 2° 1′ 25.173″ E 365 52° 46′ 7.380″ N 2° 24′ 12.501″ E 98 52° 42′
33.173″ N 2° 0′ 49.768″ E 366 52° 46′ 8.022″ N 2° 24′ 12.532″ E 99 52° 42′
34.216″ N 2° 0′ 40.941″ E 367 52° 46′ 9.762″ N 2° 24′ 12.670″ E 100 52° 42′
34.439″ N 2° 0′ 39.649″ E 368 52° 50′ 9.656″ N 2° 24′ 31.707″ E 101 52° 42′
35.302″ N 2° 0′ 35.379″ E 369 52° 51′ 3.549″ N 2° 34′ 15.864″ E 102 52° 42′
41.649″ N 2° 0′ 7.655″ E 370 52° 51′ 3.486″ N 2° 34′ 19.188″ E 103 52° 42′
43.788″ N 2° 0′ 0.073″ E 371 52° 51′ 3.295″ N 2° 34′ 22.530″ E 104 52° 42′
44.149″ N 1° 59′ 59.016″ E 372 52° 51′ 2.978″ N 2° 34′ 25.846″ E 105 52° 42′
45.445″ N 1° 59′ 55.557″ E 373 52° 51′ 2.535″ N 2° 34′ 29.122″ E 106 52° 42′
55.437″ N 1° 59′ 30.877″ E 374 52° 51′ 1.968″ N 2° 34′ 32.346″ E 107 52° 42′
55.855″ N 1° 59′ 29.924″ E 375 52° 51′ 1.280″ N 2° 34′ 35.504″ E 108 52° 42′
58.378″ N 1° 59′ 24.593″ E 376 52° 51′ 0.473″ N 2° 34′ 38.585″ E 109 52° 42′
58.842″ N 1° 59′ 23.685″ E 377 52° 50′ 59.551″ N 2° 34′ 41.577″ E 110 52° 43′
0.673″ N 1° 59′ 20.588″ E 378 52° 50′ 58.516″ N 2° 34′ 44.466″ E 111 52° 43′
2.861″ N 1° 59′ 17.394″ E 379 52° 50′ 57.374″ N 2° 34′ 47.243″ E 112 52° 43′
17.859″ N 1° 58′ 57.179″ E 380 52° 50′ 56.129″ N 2° 34′ 49.896″ E 113 52° 43′
19.625″ N 1° 58′ 54.953″ E 381 52° 50′ 54.785″ N 2° 34′ 52.414″ E 114 52° 43′
21.284″ N 1° 58′ 53.106″ E 382 52° 50′ 53.348″ N 2° 34′ 54.787″ E 115 52° 43′
21.796″ N 1° 58′ 52.576″ E 383 52° 50′ 51.823″ N 2° 34′ 57.007″ E 116 52° 43′
23.547″ N 1° 58′ 50.895″ E 384 52° 50′ 50.218″ N 2° 34′ 59.065″ E 117 52° 45′
46.103″ N 1° 56′ 43.184″ E 385 52° 50′ 48.537″ N 2° 35′ 0.952″ E 118 52° 46′
2.160″ N 1° 56′ 27.260″ E 386 52° 50′ 46.788″ N 2° 35′ 2.661″ E 119 52° 46′
3.532″ N 1° 56′ 26.078″ E 387 52° 50′ 44.977″ N 2° 35′ 4.185″ E 120 52° 46′
17.577″ N 1° 56′ 12.146″ E 388 52° 50′ 43.112″ N 2° 35′ 5.518″ E 121 52° 46′
37.038″ N 1° 55′ 33.566″ E 389 52° 50′ 41.200″ N 2° 35′ 6.655″ E 122 52° 46′
51.513″ N 1° 54′ 38.977″ E 390 52° 50′ 39.248″ N 2° 35′ 7.591″ E 123 52° 46′
58.151″ N 1° 53′ 21.115″ E 391 52° 50′ 37.265″ N 2° 35′ 8.323″ E 124 52° 46′
59.490″ N 1° 52′ 52.341″ E 392 52° 50′ 33.492″ N 2° 35′ 9.272″ E 125 52° 47′
32.039″ N 1° 39′ 38.159″ E 393 52° 50′ 32.920″ N 2° 35′ 9.346″ E 126 52° 47′
32.129″ N 1° 39′ 36.152″ E 394 52° 46′ 31.498″ N 2° 26′ 1.301″ E 127 52° 47′
32.273″ N 1° 39′ 33.526″ E 395 52° 46′ 31.407″ N 2° 26′ 1.294″ E 128 52° 47′
32.388″ N 1° 39′ 31.565″ E 396 52° 46′ 31.505″ N 2° 26′ 1.330″ E 129 52° 47′
32.521″ N 1° 39′ 29.607″ E 397 52° 46′ 30.476″ N 2° 26′ 1.280″ E 130 52° 47′
32.673″ N 1° 39′ 27.652″ E 398 52° 46′ 29.257″ N 2° 26′ 1.347″ E 131 52° 47′
32.844″ N 1° 39′ 25.702″ E 399 52° 46′ 28.043″ N 2° 26′ 1.540″ E 132 52° 47′
33.028″ N 1° 39′ 23.714″ E 400 52° 46′ 26.839″ N 2° 26′ 1.859″ E 133 52° 47′
33.217″ N 1° 39′ 21.768″ E 401 52° 46′ 25.650″ N 2° 26′ 2.301″ E 134 52° 47′
33.425″ N 1° 39′ 19.828″ E 402 52° 46′ 24.480″ N 2° 26′ 2.866″ E 135 52° 47′
33.652″ N 1° 39′ 17.893″ E 403 52° 46′ 23.333″ N 2° 26′ 3.551″ E 136 52° 47′
33.896″ N 1° 39′ 15.964″ E 404 52° 46′ 22.215″ N 2° 26′ 4.353″ E 137 52° 47′
34.155″ N 1° 39′ 13.999″ E 405 52° 46′ 21.130″ N 2° 26′ 5.269″ E 138 52° 47′
34.419″ N 1° 39′ 12.073″ E 406 52° 46′ 20.230″ N 2° 26′ 6.150″ E 139 52° 47′
34.701″ N 1° 39′ 10.153″ E 407 52° 46′ 20.081″ N 2° 26′ 6.296″ E 140 52° 47′
35.001″ N 1° 39′ 8.241″ E 408 52° 46′ 19.074″ N 2° 26′ 7.430″ E 141 52° 47′
35.320″ N 1° 39′ 6.337″ E 409 52° 46′ 18.112″ N 2° 26′ 8.665″ E 142 52° 47′
35.827″ N 1° 39′ 3.397″ E 410 52° 46′ 17.199″ N 2° 26′ 9.998″ E 143 52° 47′
36.193″ N 1° 39′ 1.398″ E 411 52° 46′ 16.338″ N 2° 26′ 11.422″ E 144 52° 47′
36.599″ N 1° 38′ 59.313″ E 412 52° 46′ 15.534″ N 2° 26′ 12.933″ E 145 52° 47′
37.000″ N 1° 38′ 57.371″ E 413 52° 46′ 14.788″ N 2° 26′ 14.524″ E 146 52° 47′
37.497″ N 1° 38′ 55.056″ E 414 52° 46′ 14.105″ N 2° 26′ 16.189″ E 147 52° 47′
37.906″ N 1° 38′ 53.193″ E 415 52° 46′ 13.486″ N 2° 26′ 17.921″ E 148 52° 47′
38.332″ N 1° 38′ 51.340″ E 416 52° 46′ 12.935″ N 2° 26′ 19.714″ E 149 52° 47′
38.777″ N 1° 38′ 49.499″ E 417 52° 46′ 12.453″ N 2° 26′ 21.561″ E 150 52° 47′
39.239″ N 1° 38′ 47.670″ E 418 52° 46′ 12.042″ N 2° 26′ 23.454″ E 151 52° 48′
59.902″ N 1° 33′ 32.091″ E 419 52° 46′ 11.704″ N 2° 26′ 25.386″ E 152 52° 49′
1.602″ N 1° 33′ 25.973″ E 420 52° 46′ 11.440″ N 2° 26′ 27.349″ E 153 52° 49′
2.819″ N 1° 33′ 19.121″ E 421 52° 46′ 11.252″ N 2° 26′ 29.335″ E 154 52° 49′
3.674″ N 1° 33′ 13.073″ E 422 52° 46′ 11.139″ N 2° 26′ 31.337″ E 155 52° 49′
3.797″ N 1° 33′ 6.096″ E 423 52° 46′ 11.103″ N 2° 26′ 33.346″ E 156 52° 49′
2.898″ N 1° 32′ 57.549″ E 424 52° 46′ 11.144″ N 2° 26′ 35.356″ E 157 52° 49′
4.139″ N 1° 32′ 54.271″ E 425 52° 46′ 11.261″ N 2° 26′ 37.357″ E 158 52° 49′
4.845″ N 1° 32′ 52.212″ E 426 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.780″ E 159 52° 49′
5.188″ N 1° 32′ 51.467″ E 427 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.781″ E 160 52° 49′
6.147″ N 1° 32′ 49.575″ E 428 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.782″ E 161 52° 49′
7.035″ N 1° 32′ 47.473″ E 429 52° 47′ 4.976″ N 2° 33′ 42.433″ E 162 52° 49′
7.208″ N 1° 32′ 46.999″ E 430 52° 47′ 5.398″ N 2° 33′ 45.780″ E 163 52° 49′
8.015″ N 1° 32′ 44.486″ E 431 52° 47′ 6.051″ N 2° 33′ 50.967″ E 164 52° 49′
8.663″ N 1° 32′ 42.319″ E 432 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 165 52° 49′
8.910″ N 1° 32′ 41.417″ E 433 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 166 52° 49′
9.102″ N 1° 32′ 41.019″ E 434 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.473″ E 167 52° 49′
9.635″ N 1° 32′ 40.648″ E 435 52° 47′ 6.675″ N 2° 33′ 55.224″ E 168 52° 49′
9.807″ N 1° 32′ 40.345″ E 436 52° 47′ 7.088″ N 2° 33′ 57.116″ E 169 52° 49′
9.768″ N 1° 32′ 39.737″ E 437 52° 47′ 7.573″ N 2° 33′ 58.962″ E 170 52° 49′
9.855″ N 1° 32′ 38.941″ E 438 52° 47′ 8.126″ N 2° 34′ 0.754″ E 171 52° 49′
10.086″ N 1° 32′ 38.247″ E 439 52° 47′ 8.747″ N 2° 34′ 2.485″ E 172 52° 49′
10.218″ N 1° 32′ 37.939″ E 440 52° 47′ 9.433″ N 2° 34′ 4.148″ E 173 52° 49′
10.691″ N 1° 32′ 36.993″ E 441 52° 47′ 10.180″ N 2° 34′ 5.737″ E 174 52° 49′
11.553″ N 1° 32′ 35.417″ E 442 52° 47′ 10.987″ N 2° 34′ 7.246″ E 175 52° 49′
12.200″ N 1° 32′ 33.887″ E 443 52° 47′ 11.849″ N 2° 34′ 8.668″ E 176 52° 49′
12.742″ N 1° 32′ 32.736″ E 444 52° 47′ 12.764″ N 2° 34′ 9.998″ E 177 52° 49′
13.080″ N 1° 32′ 31.922″ E 445 52° 47′ 13.727″ N 2° 34′ 11.230″ E 178 52° 49′
13.507″ N 1° 32′ 31.040″ E 446 52° 47′ 14.736″ N 2° 34′ 12.361″ E 179 52° 49′
14.325″ N 1° 32′ 29.767″ E 447 52° 47′ 15.785″ N 2° 34′ 13.384″ E 180 52° 49′
14.340″ N 1° 32′ 29.796″ E 448 52° 47′ 16.872″ N 2° 34′ 14.297″ E 181 52° 49′
15.178″ N 1° 32′ 31.478″ E 449 52° 47′ 17.991″ N 2° 34′ 15.096″ E 182 52° 49′
15.638″ N 1° 32′ 32.401″ E 450 52° 47′ 19.138″ N 2° 34′ 15.777″ E 183 52° 49′
45.178″ N 1° 33′ 31.705″ E 451 52° 47′ 20.309″ N 2° 34′ 16.338″ E 184 52° 49′
45.944″ N 1° 33′ 33.513″ E 452 52° 47′ 21.499″ N 2° 34′ 16.777″ E 185 52° 49′
46.772″ N 1° 33′ 35.540″ E 453 52° 47′ 22.704″ N 2° 34′ 17.091″ E 186 52° 49′
47.579″ N 1° 33′ 37.591″ E 454 52° 47′ 23.918″ N 2° 34′ 17.280″ E 187 52° 49′
48.363″ N 1° 33′ 39.664″ E 455 52° 47′ 25.496″ N 2° 34′ 17.365″ E 188 52° 49′
49.126″ N 1° 33′ 41.760″ E 456 52° 48′ 2.953″ N 2° 26′ 36.184″ E 189 52° 49′
49.866″ N 1° 33′ 43.878″ E 457 52° 48′ 2.518″ N 2° 26′ 33.730″ E 190 52° 49′
50.585″ N 1° 33′ 46.016″ E 458 52° 48′ 1.985″ N 2° 26′ 31.328″ E 191 52° 49′
51.280″ N 1° 33′ 48.175″ E 459 52° 48′ 1.357″ N 2° 26′ 28.991″ E 192 52° 49′
51.952″ N 1° 33′ 50.354″ E 460 52° 48′ 1.009″ N 2° 26′ 27.849″ E 193 52° 49′
52.602″ N 1° 33′ 52.551″ E 461 52° 48′ 0.243″ N 2° 26′ 25.626″ E 194 52° 49′
53.228″ N 1° 33′ 54.767″ E 462 52° 47′ 59.827″ N 2° 26′ 24.547″ E 195 52° 49′
53.831″ N 1° 33′ 57.000″ E 463 52° 47′ 58.931″ N 2° 26′ 22.461″ E 196 52° 49′
54.410″ N 1° 33′ 59.251″ E 464 52° 47′ 57.954″ N 2° 26′ 20.477″ E 197 52° 49′
54.965″ N 1° 34′ 1.518″ E 465 52° 47′ 57.436″ N 2° 26′ 19.526″ E 198 52° 49′
55.496″ N 1° 34′ 3.800″ E 466 52° 47′ 56.343″ N 2° 26′ 17.712″ E 199 52° 49′
56.003″ N 1° 34′ 6.098″ E 467 52° 47′ 55.181″ N 2° 26′ 16.022″ E 200 52° 49′
56.486″ N 1° 34′ 8.409″ E 468 52° 47′ 53.953″ N 2° 26′ 14.462″ E 201 52° 49′
56.944″ N 1° 34′ 10.735″ E 469 52° 47′ 53.316″ N 2° 26′ 13.734″ E 202 52° 49′
57.378″ N 1° 34′ 13.073″ E 470 52° 47′ 52.000″ N 2° 26′ 12.384″ E 203 52° 49′
57.786″ N 1° 34′ 15.423″ E 471 52° 47′ 51.322″ N 2° 26′ 11.763″ E 204 52° 49′
58.171″ N 1° 34′ 17.784″ E 472 52° 47′ 49.931″ N 2° 26′ 10.635″ E 205 52° 49′
58.530″ N 1° 34′ 20.157″ E 473 52° 47′ 48.498″ N 2° 26′ 9.662″ E 206 52° 49′
58.864″ N 1° 34′ 22.539″ E 474 52° 47′ 47.030″ N 2° 26′ 8.847″ E 207 52° 49′
59.173″ N 1° 34′ 24.930″ E 475 52° 47′ 45.531″ N 2° 26′ 8.195″ E 208 52° 49′
59.456″ N 1° 34′ 27.330″ E 476 52° 47′ 44.124″ N 2° 26′ 7.739″ E 209 52° 49′
59.714″ N 1° 34′ 29.738″ E 477 52° 47′ 42.819″ N 2° 26′ 7.446″ E 210 52° 49′
59.947″ N 1° 34′ 32.153″ E 478 52° 47′ 42.518″ N 2° 26′ 7.422″ E 211 52° 50′
0.154″ N 1° 34′ 34.574″ E 479 52° 47′ 40.198″ N 2° 26′ 6.759″ E 212 52° 50′
0.336″ N 1° 34′ 37.001″ E 480 52° 47′ 32.505″ N 2° 26′ 6.180″ E 213 52° 50′
0.492″ N 1° 34′ 39.433″ E 481 52° 50′ 2.151″ N 2° 35′ 9.316″ E 214 52° 50′
0.623″ N 1° 34′ 41.869″ E 482 52° 47′ 39.858″ N 2° 35′ 10.667″ E 215 52° 50′
0.727″ N 1° 34′ 44.308″ E 483 52° 47′ 38.680″ N 2° 35′ 10.728″ E 216 52° 50′
0.806″ N 1° 34′ 46.750″ E 484 52° 47′ 37.466″ N 2° 35′ 10.917″ E 217 52° 50′
0.859″ N 1° 34′ 49.193″ E 485 52° 47′ 36.261″ N 2° 35′ 11.231″ E 218 52° 50′
0.887″ N 1° 34′ 51.638″ E 486 52° 47′ 35.071″ N 2° 35′ 11.670″ E 219 52° 50′
0.888″ N 1° 34′ 54.083″ E 487 52° 47′ 33.900″ N 2° 35′ 12.231″ E 220 52° 50′
0.864″ N 1° 34′ 56.528″ E 488 52° 47′ 32.753″ N 2° 35′ 12.912″ E 221 52° 50′
0.814″ N 1° 34′ 58.972″ E 489 52° 47′ 31.634″ N 2° 35′ 13.711″ E 222 52° 50′
0.739″ N 1° 35′ 1.414″ E 490 52° 47′ 30.547″ N 2° 35′ 14.623″ E 223 52° 50′
0.637″ N 1° 35′ 3.854″ E 491 52° 47′ 29.498″ N 2° 35′ 15.647″ E 224 52° 50′
0.510″ N 1° 35′ 6.290″ E 492 52° 47′ 28.489″ N 2° 35′ 16.777″ E 225 52° 50′
0.357″ N 1° 35′ 8.722″ E 493 52° 47′ 27.525″ N 2° 35′ 18.010″ E 226 52° 50′
0.178″ N 1° 35′ 11.150″ E 494 52° 47′ 26.611″ N 2° 35′ 19.340″ E 227 52° 49′
59.974″ N 1° 35′ 13.572″ E 495 52° 47′ 25.748″ N 2° 35′ 20.762″ E 228 52° 49′
59.745″ N 1° 35′ 15.987″ E 496 52° 47′ 24.942″ N 2° 35′ 22.271″ E 229 52° 49′
59.490″ N 1° 35′ 18.396″ E 497 52° 47′ 24.194″ N 2° 35′ 23.860″ E 230 52° 49′
59.209″ N 1° 35′ 20.797″ E 498 52° 47′ 23.509″ N 2° 35′ 25.523″ E 231 52° 49′
58.903″ N 1° 35′ 23.190″ E 499 52° 47′ 22.888″ N 2° 35′ 27.254″ E 232 52° 49′
58.573″ N 1° 35′ 25.573″ E 500 52° 47′ 22.334″ N 2° 35′ 29.046″ E 233 52° 49′
58.217″ N 1° 35′ 27.947″ E 501 52° 47′ 21.849″ N 2° 35′ 30.892″ E 234 52° 49′
57.836″ N 1° 35′ 30.310″ E 502 52° 47′ 21.436″ N 2° 35′ 32.784″ E 235 52° 49′
57.430″ N 1° 35′ 32.661″ E 503 52° 47′ 21.096″ N 2° 35′ 34.716″ E 236 52° 49′
56.999″ N 1° 35′ 35.001″ E 504 52° 47′ 20.829″ N 2° 35′ 36.678″ E 237 52° 49′
56.544″ N 1° 35′ 37.328″ E 505 52° 47′ 20.638″ N 2° 35′ 38.665″ E 238 52° 49′
56.064″ N 1° 35′ 39.641″ E 506 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 40.667″ E 239 52° 49′
55.560″ N 1° 35′ 41.940″ E 507 52° 47′ 20.485″ N 2° 35′ 42.678″ E 240 52° 49′
55.032″ N 1° 35′ 44.225″ E 508 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 44.688″ E 241 52° 49′
54.480″ N 1° 35′ 46.494″ E 509 52° 47′ 20.637″ N 2° 35′ 46.691″ E 242 52° 49′
53.904″ N 1° 35′ 48.746″ E 510 52° 47′ 20.743″ N 2° 35′ 47.801″ E 243 52° 49′
53.304″ N 1° 35′ 50.982″ E 511 52° 47′ 20.744″ N 2° 35′ 47.806″ E 244 52° 49′
52.681″ N 1° 35′ 53.200″ E 512 52° 47′ 21.786″ N 2° 35′ 56.101″ E 245 52° 49′
52.034″ N 1° 35′ 55.400″ E 513 52° 48′ 20.763″ N 2° 43′ 47.964″ E 246 52° 49′
51.868″ N 1° 35′ 55.943″ E 514 52° 48′ 21.026″ N 2° 43′ 49.928″ E 247 52° 48′
40.863″ N 1° 39′ 22.453″ E 515 52° 48′ 21.364″ N 2° 43′ 51.862″ E 248 52° 48′
40.702″ N 1° 39′ 22.924″ E 516 52° 48′ 21.774″ N 2° 43′ 53.756″ E 249 52° 48′
40.367″ N 1° 39′ 23.994″ E 517 52° 48′ 22.256″ N 2° 43′ 55.605″ E 250 52° 48′
40.234″ N 1° 39′ 24.393″ E 518 52° 48′ 22.808″ N 2° 43′ 57.400″ E 251 52° 48′
40.107″ N 1° 39′ 24.797″ E 519 52° 48′ 23.426″ N 2° 43′ 59.134″ E 252 52° 48′
39.560″ N 1° 39′ 26.596″ E 520 52° 48′ 24.109″ N 2° 44′ 0.800″ E 253 52° 48′
39.405″ N 1° 39′ 27.124″ E 521 52° 48′ 24.854″ N 2° 44′ 2.393″ E 254 52° 48′
39.261″ N 1° 39′ 27.661″ E 522 52° 48′ 25.659″ N 2° 44′ 3.905″ E 255 52° 48′
38.783″ N 1° 39′ 29.512″ E 523 52° 48′ 26.519″ N 2° 44′ 5.331″ E 256 52° 48′
38.649″ N 1° 39′ 30.055″ E 524 52° 48′ 27.432″ N 2° 44′ 6.665″ E 257 52° 48′
38.525″ N 1° 39′ 30.606″ E 525 52° 48′ 28.394″ N 2° 44′ 7.902″ E 258 52° 48′
38.044″ N 1° 39′ 32.861″ E 526 52° 48′ 29.401″ N 2° 44′ 9.037″ E 259 52° 48′
37.927″ N 1° 39′ 33.484″ E 527 52° 48′ 30.449″ N 2° 44′ 10.065″ E 260 52° 48′
37.569″ N 1° 39′ 35.557″ E 528 52° 48′ 31.534″ N 2° 44′ 10.983″ E 261 52° 48′
37.477″ N 1° 39′ 36.124″ E 529 52° 48′ 32.652″ N 2° 44′ 11.786″ E 262 52° 48′
37.396″ N 1° 39′ 36.696″ E 530 52° 48′ 33.799″ N 2° 44′ 12.472″ E 263 52° 48′
37.137″ N 1° 39′ 38.662″ E 531 52° 48′ 34.969″ N 2° 44′ 13.037″ E 264 52° 48′
37.067″ N 1° 39′ 39.237″ E 532 52° 48′ 36.158″ N 2° 44′ 13.481″ E 265 52° 48′
37.008″ N 1° 39′ 39.816″ E 533 52° 48′ 37.362″ N 2° 44′ 13.800″ E 266 52° 48′
36.824″ N 1° 39′ 41.805″ E 534 52° 48′ 38.576″ N 2° 44′ 13.994″ E 267 52° 48′
36.776″ N 1° 39′ 42.387″ E 535 52° 48′ 39.226″ N 2° 44′ 14.030″ E 268 52° 48′
36.739″ N 1° 39′ 42.971″ E 536 52° 51′ 27.631″ N 2° 44′ 14.043″ E

##### Ancillary Works

1

Works within the Order limits which have been subject to an environmental
impact assessment recorded in the environmental statement comprising—

1.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised development;

1.b

marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works; and

1.c

temporary works for the benefit or protection of land or structures affected
by the authorised development.

##### Requirements

###### Time limits

1

The authorised project must commence no later than the expiration of five
years beginning with the date this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed offshore design parameters

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (2), any wind turbine generator forming part of the
authorised project must not—

2.1.a

exceed a height of 350 metres when measured from HAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

2.1.b

exceed a height of 198.5 metres to the height of the centreline of the
generator shaft forming part of the hub when measured from HAT;

2.1.c

exceed a rotor diameter of 303 metres;

2.1.d

be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in either
direction perpendicular to the approximate prevailing wind direction
(crosswind) or be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator
in either direction which is in line with the approximate prevailing wind
direction (downwind); or

2.1.e

have a draught height which is less than the minimum draught height specified
for the relevant wind turbine generator capacity in the table below—

Wind Turbine Generator Capacity Minimum draught height Up to and
including14.6MW 35m from MHWS 14.7 MW and above 30m from MHWS

2.2

References to the location of a wind turbine generator in paragraph (2) above
are references to the centre point of that turbine.

3

3.1

The total number of wind turbine generators forming part of the authorised
project must not exceed   145   and must be configured such that at any time—

3.1.a

no more than two-thirds of the total number of wind turbine generators
(rounded to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard
West; and

3.1.b

no more than one-half of the total number of wind turbine generators (rounded
to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard East.

3.2

The total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised project must not exceed two.

3.3

The total number of accommodation platforms must not exceed two.

3.4

The total number of meteorological masts must not exceed two.

3.5

The total number of LIDAR measurement buoys must not exceed two and the total
number of wave measurement buoys must not exceed two.

4

4.1

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised project (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 100 metres in height when measured from HAT, 120 metres in length and
80 metres in width.

4.2

The dimensions of any accommodation platform forming part of the authorised
project (excluding helipads) must not exceed 100 metres in height when
measured from HAT, 90 metres in length and 60 metres in width.

4.3

Each meteorological mast must not exceed a height of 200 metres above HAT.

4.4

Each meteorological mast must not have more than one supporting foundation.

5

The total length of the cables and the volume and area of their cable
protection must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection (m 2  and m 3 ) Work No. 1(e) (array) 600
kilometres 389,000m 2  198,500m 3 Work No. 3 (interconnector link) 150
kilometres 76,000m 2  38,000m 3 Work No. 4A and 4B (export cable) 400
kilometres 102,086m 2  59,836m 3

6

6.1

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation using piles must not
have—

6.1.a

more than four driven piles;

6.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 15
metres; or

6.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than five metres.

6.2

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 1,963 m 2 .

7

7.1

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation using piles must not
have—

7.1.a

more than four driven piles;

7.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 10
metres; or

7.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than three metres.

7.2

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation must not have a seabed
footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 314 m 2 .

8

8.1

In relation to an offshore electrical platform, each foundation using piles
must not have—

8.1.a

more than 18 driven piles; or

8.1.b

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than five metres.

8.2

In relation to the offshore electrical platform(s), the foundations must not
have a combined seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater
than 15,000 m 2 .

9

9.1

In relation to any accommodation platform, each foundation using piles must
not have—

9.1.a

more than six driven piles; or

9.1.b

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than three metres.

9.2

In relation to an accommodation platform, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 7,500 m 2 .

10

10.1

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation using piles must
not have a pile diameter of greater than 10 metres.

10.2

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 79 m 2 per
buoy and 157m² in total.

10.3

In relation to any wave measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 150m 2  per
buoy and 300 m 2  in total.

11

The total amount of scour protection for the wind turbine generators,
accommodation platform, meteorological masts, offshore electrical platforms
and LIDAR measurement buoys forming part of the authorised project must not
exceed 5,196,703m 2  and 25,983,515m 3 .

###### Aviation safety

12

12.1

The undertaker must exhibit such lights, with such shape, colour and character
and at such times as are required in writing by Air Navigation Order 2016
and/or determined necessary for aviation safety in consultation with the
Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding and as directed by the CAA.
Lighting installed specifically to meet Ministry of Defence aviation safety
requirements must remain operational for the life of the authorised
development unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Ministry of Defence.

12.2

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the offshore
works, in writing of the following information—

12.2.a

the date of the commencement of construction of the offshore works;

12.2.b

the date any wind turbine generators are brought into use;

12.2.c

the maximum height of any construction equipment to be used;

12.2.d

the maximum heights of any wind turbine generator, meteorological mast,
offshore electrical platform and accommodation platform to be constructed; and

12.2.e

the latitude and longitude of each wind turbine generator, meteorological
mast, offshore electrical platform and accommodation platform to be
constructed,

and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding must be notified of
any changes to the information supplied under this paragraph and of the
completion of the construction of the offshore works.

###### Ministry of Defence surveillance operations

13

13.1

No wind turbine generator forming part of the authorised development is
permitted to rotate its rotor blades on its horizontal axis until the
Secretary of State having consulted with the Ministry of Defence confirms
satisfaction in writing that appropriate mitigation will be implemented and
maintained for the life of the authorised development and that arrangements
have been put in place with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the
approved mitigation is implemented.

13.2

For the purposes of this requirement—

13.2.a

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to prevent or remove any adverse
effects which the authorised development will have on the air defence radar at
Remote Radar Head (RRH)   Neatishead   and the Ministry of Defence’s air
surveillance and control operations;

13.2.b

“ approved mitigation ” means the detailed Radar Mitigation Scheme (RMS) that
will set out the appropriate measures and timescales for implementation as
agreed with the Ministry of Defence at the time the Secretary of State
confirms satisfaction in writing in accordance with paragraph (1); and

13.2.c

“ Ministry of Defence ” means the Ministry of Defence as represented by
Defence Infrastructure Organisation – Safeguarding,   St George’s House, DIO
Head Office, DMS Whittington, Lichfield, Staffordshire WS14 9PY   or any
successor body.

13.3

The undertaker must thereafter comply with all other obligations contained
within the approved mitigation for the life of the authorised development.

###### Offshore decommissioning

14

14.1

No offshore works may commence until a written decommissioning programme in
compliance with any notice served upon the undertaker by the Secretary of
State pursuant to section 105(2) (Requirement to prepare decommissioning
programmes) of the 2004 Act has been submitted to the Secretary of State for
approval.

14.2

The obligations under paragraphs (3) and (4) shall only apply in respect of
cable protection, apart from at cable crossing locations with existing cables
and pipelines, which is installed as part of the authorised project within the
Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation as at the date
of the grant of the Order.

14.3

No later than 4 months prior to each deployment of cable protection in the
Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation, except where
otherwise stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of
State, the undertaker must submit the following documents for approval by the
Secretary of State:

14.3.a

a decommissioning feasibility study on the proposed cable protection to be
updated at intervals of not more than every ten years throughout the
operational phase of the project;

14.3.b

a method statement for recovery of cable protection; and

14.3.c

a monitoring plan to include appropriate surveys following decommissioning to
monitor the recovery of the area of the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton
Special Area of Conservation impacted by cable protection.

14.4

No cable protection can be deployed in the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton
Special Area of Conservation until the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the MMO and the Statutory Nature Conservation Body approves in writing
the documents pursuant to paragraph (3) above.

###### Stages of authorised development onshore

15

15.1

The onshore transmission works must not be commence, nor powers of compulsory
acquisition under Part 5 of this Order be exercised, until notification has
been submitted to the relevant planning authority detailing whether the
onshore works will be constructed:

15.1.a

in a single onshore phase; or

15.1.b

in two onshore phases.

15.2

The onshore transmission works may not be commenced until a written scheme
setting out the stages of the onshore transmission works for the relevant
onshore phase has been submitted to the relevant planning authority.

15.3

The written scheme must be implemented as notified under paragraph (2).

###### Detailed design parameters onshore

16

16.1

The total number of converter buildings for the onshore project substation
must not exceed two.

16.2

Construction works for the converter buildings referred to in paragraph (1)
above must not commence until details of the layout, scale and external
appearance of the same have been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority.

16.3

The onshore project substation must be carried out in accordance with the
approved details.

16.4

Any details provided by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (2) must:

16.4.a

accord with the design and access statement;

16.4.b

be supported by a statement illustrating how the details submitted accord with
the principles of the OPS Masterplan and have been informed by a strategic
approach to mitigate cumulative impacts arising from the onshore project
substation and the Norfolk Boreas onshore project substation;

16.4.c

have been subject to an early independent design review which must consider
whether the requirements of sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) have been satisfied and
make recommendations for design improvements if not; and

16.4.d

be within the Order limits.

16.5

Buildings (including the converter buildings) comprised in Work No. 8A must
not exceed a height of 19 metres above existing ground level and external
electrical equipment comprised in Work No. 8A must not exceed a height of 25
metres above existing ground level.

16.6

The total footprint of each converter building must not exceed 110 metres by
70 metres.

16.7

The fenced compound area (excluding its accesses) for the onshore project
substation comprised in Work No. 8A must not exceed 250 metres by 300 metres.

16.8

For the purposes of subparagraph (5) of this requirement ‘existing ground
level’ means 71 metres above ordnance datum.

16.9

The external electrical equipment comprised in Work No. 10A must not exceed a
height of 15 metres above existing ground level.

16.10

For the purposes of subparagraph (9) of this requirement ‘existing ground
level’ means 69 metres above ordnance datum.

16.11

The fenced compound area (excluding its accesses) for the extension to the
Necton National Grid substation comprised in Work No. 10A must not exceed 200
metres by 150 metres.

16.12

Construction works for the permanent replacement overhead pylons comprised in
Work No. 11 must not commence until details of the same have been submitted to
and approved by the relevant planning authority.

16.13

The permanent replacement overhead line pylon works comprised in Work No. 11
must be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

16.14

The permanent replacement overhead line pylons comprised in Work No. 11 must
not exceed a height of 55 metres above existing ground level.

16.15

The total footprint of each permanent replacement overhead line pylon
comprised in Work No. 11 must not exceed 25 metres by 25 metres.

16.16

For the purposes of subparagraph (14) of this requirement ‘existing ground
level’ means between 66 and 69 metres above ordnance datum in respect of the
eastern pylon identified on work plan 41 of 42 with the letter ‘E’ and between
68 and 70 metres above ordnance datum in respect of the eastern pylon
identified on work plan 41 of 42 with the letter ‘W’.

16.17

Trenchless installation techniques must be used for the purposes of passing
under—

16.17.a

the River Wensum (Work No. 7);

16.17.b

King’s Beck (Work No. 5);

16.17.c

Wendling Beck (Work No. 7);

16.17.d

River Bure (Work No. 6);

16.17.e

North Walsham and Dilham Canal (Work No. 5);

16.17.f

the Witton Hall Plantation along Old Hall Road (Work No. 5);

16.17.g

the Wendling Carr County Wildlife Site (Work No. 7);

16.17.h

Little Wood County Wildlife Site (Work No. 7);

16.17.i

land south of the Dillington Carr County Wildlife Site (Work No. 7);

16.17.j

Kerdiston proposed County Wildlife Site (Work No. 6);

16.17.k

Marriott’s Way County Wildlife Site/ Public Right of Way (Work No. 6);

16.17.l

Paston Way and Knapton Cutting County Wildlife Site (Work No. 5);

16.17.m

Norfolk Coast Path (Work No. 4C);

16.17.n

Norwich to Cromer railway line at north Walsham (Work No. 5);

16.17.o

Wymondham to North Elmham Railway line at Dereham (Work No. 7);

16.17.p

A47 Road (Work No. 7);

16.17.q

A140 Road (Work No. 6);

16.17.r

A149 Road (Work No. 5);

16.17.s

A1067 Road (Work No. 7); and

16.17.t

... B1149 (Work No. 6).

16.18

The number of underground cable ducts to be installed at the landfall   must
not exceed four .

###### Landfall method statement

17

17.1

No part of Work Nos. 4A, 4B or 4C may commence until a method statement for
the construction of Work Nos. 4A, 4B and 4C has been submitted to and approved
in writing by North Norfolk District Council in consultation with Natural
England.

17.2

The method statement referred to in paragraph (1) must include measures for
long horizontal directional drilling below the coastal shore platform and
cliff base at the landfall as well as measures for ongoing inspection of Work
No. 4C and reporting of results to North Norfolk District Council during the
operation of the authorised project.

17.3

In the event that inspections indicate that as a result of the rate and extent
of landfall erosion Work No. 4C could become exposed during the operation of
the authorised project the undertaker must, as soon as practicable, submit
proposals in writing for remedial measures to protect Work No. 4C, together
with a timetable for their implementation, to North Norfolk District Council
for their approval, in consultation with Natural England.

17.4

The method statement and any proposals for remedial measures must be
implemented as approved.

###### Provision of landscaping

18

18.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until for that stage a
written landscaping management scheme and associated work programme (which
accords with the outline landscape and ecological management strategy) has
been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with Natural England.

18.2

The landscaping management scheme must include details of proposed hard and
soft landscaping works appropriate for the relevant stage, including—

18.2.a

location, number, species, size and planting density of any proposed planting,
including any trees;

18.2.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

18.2.c

hard surfacing materials;

18.2.d

details of existing trees to be removed, and details of existing trees and
hedgerows to be retained with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

18.2.e

retained historic landscape features and proposals for restoration, where
relevant;

18.2.f

implementation timetables for all landscaping works;

18.2.g

proposed finished heights, form and gradient of earthworks; and

18.2.h

maintenance of the landscaping.

18.3

The landscaping management scheme must be implemented as approved.

###### Implementation and maintenance of landscaping

19

19.1

All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the landscaping
management schemes approved under requirement 18 (provision of landscaping),
and in accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British
Standards.

19.2

Any tree, hedge or shrub planted as part of an approved landscaping management
scheme with the intention of screening the onshore project substation (and/or
the Norfolk Boreas onshore project substation) that, within a period of
twenty-five years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion
of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased must be
replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted unless a different species is
otherwise approved by the relevant planning authority.

19.3

Any tree, hedge, or shrub planted within the district of North Norfolk as part
of an approved landscaping management scheme that, within a period of ten
years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion of the
relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased must be replaced in
the first available planting season with a specimen of the same species and
size as that originally planted unless a different species is otherwise
approved by the relevant planning authority.

19.4

Any other tree or shrub planted as part of an approved landscaping management
scheme that, within a period of five years after planting, is removed, dies or
becomes, in the opinion of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged
or diseased must be replaced in the first available planting season with a
specimen of the same species and size as that originally planted unless a
different species is otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant planning
authority.

###### Code of construction practice

20

20.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until for that stage a
code of construction practice has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority, in consultation with Norfolk County Council, the
Environment Agency, and Natural England.

20.2

The code of construction practice must accord with the outline code of
construction practice and include details, as appropriate to the relevant
stage, on—

20.2.a

relevant health, safety and environmental legislation and compliance;

20.2.b

local community liaison responsibilities;

20.2.c

artificial light emissions;

20.2.d

contaminated land and groundwater;

20.2.e

construction noise and vibration;

20.2.f

soil management;

20.2.g

construction method statements;

20.2.h

site and excavated waste management;

20.2.i

construction surface water and drainage;

20.2.j

materials management;

20.2.k

screening, fencing and site security;

20.2.l

air quality;

20.2.m

invasive species management; and

20.2.n

proposals for managing public rights of way.

20.3

The code of construction practice approved in relation to the relevant stage
of the onshore transmission works must be followed in relation to that stage
of the onshore transmission works.

20.4

Pre-commencement screening, fencing and site security works must only take
place in accordance with a specific plan for such pre-commencement works which
must accord with the relevant details for screening, fencing and site security
set out in the outline code of construction practice, and which has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant local authority.

###### Traffic

21

21.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until for that stage
the following plans, as appropriate for the relevant stage, have for that
stage been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with the highway authority—

21.1.a

a traffic management plan which must be in accordance with the outline traffic
management plan;

21.1.b

a travel plan which must be in accordance with the outline travel plan; and

21.1.c

an access management plan which must be in accordance with the outline access
management plan.

21.2

The plans approved under paragraph (1) must be implemented upon commencement
of the relevant stage of the onshore transmission works.

21.3

If any of the accesses identified in the outline access management plan are
required for pre-commencement archaeological investigations, a specific plan
for such accesses which must accord with the relevant details set out in the
outline access management plan must be submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority, in consultation with the highway authority, prior
to the construction and use of such accesses. The accesses identified must be
constructed and used in accordance with the details contained in the specific
plan so approved.

21.4

Following the making of the Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm Development
Consent Order, and notwithstanding the requirement of sub-paragraph (a) of
paragraph (1) above, the traffic management plan shall include, in respect of
Link 34 as referred to in the Environmental Statement, revised details of a
scheme of traffic mitigation which shall be submitted to, and approved in
writing by, the relevant planning authority, in consultation with the highway
authority.

21.5

Following the making of the Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order if, in
respect of Link 34, the Norfolk Boreas Outline Traffic Management Plan
materially differs from the outline traffic management plan, the traffic
management plan must include, in respect of Link 34, traffic mitigation which
is consistent with the Norfolk Boreas Outline Traffic Management Plan but only
to the extent that such mitigation is capable of being accommodated within the
Order limits and does not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental
statement.

###### Highway accesses

22

22.1

The access management plan submitted for approval under Requirement 21(1)(c)
must include details of the siting, design, layout and any access management
measures for any new, permanent or temporary means of access (including, where
relevant, details of reinstatement measures) to a highway to be used by
vehicular traffic, or any alteration to an existing means of access to a
highway used by vehicular traffic.

22.2

The highway accesses for each stage of the onshore transmission works must be
constructed or altered and the works described in paragraph (1) above in
relation to access management measures must be carried out, as the case may
be, in accordance with the approved details before they are brought into use
for the purposes of the authorised project.

###### Archaeological written scheme of investigation

23

23.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until for that stage
an archaeological written scheme of investigation (which accords with the
outline written scheme of investigation (onshore)) has, after consultation
with Norfolk County Council and Historic England, been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority.

23.2

In the event that archaeological site investigation is required, the scheme
must include details of the following—

23.2.a

an assessment of significance and research questions;  ...

23.2.b

the programme and methodology of site investigation and recording;

23.2.c

the programme for post investigation assessment;

23.2.d

provision to be made for analysis of the site investigation and recording;

23.2.e

provision to be made for publication and dissemination of the analysis and
records of the site investigation;

23.2.f

provision to be made for archive deposition of the analysis and records of the
site investigation; and

23.2.g

nomination of a competent person or persons/organisation to undertake the
works set out within the written scheme of investigation.

23.3

Any archaeological site investigation, archaeological works or watching brief
must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

23.4

Pre-commencement surveys, site preparation works and archaeological
investigations must only take place in accordance with a specific written
scheme of investigation which is in accordance with the details set out in the
outline written scheme of investigation (onshore), and which has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant local authority.

###### Ecological management plan

24

24.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until for that stage a
written ecological management plan (which accords with the outline landscape
and ecological management strategy as appropriate for the relevant stage) has
been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with Natural England. The ecological management plan must be
informed by post consent ecological surveying of previously un-surveyed areas
for the relevant stage.

24.2

The ecological management plan must include an implementation timetable and
must be carried out as approved.

24.3

Pre-commencement site clearance works must only take place in accordance with
a specific ecological management plan for site clearance works which is in
accordance with the relevant details for site clearance works set out in the
outline landscape and ecological management strategy, and which has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant local authority. The plan for site
clearance works must be informed by post consent ecological surveying of
previously un-surveyed areas for the relevant stage referred to in the plan.

24.4

Construction works within 5km of the Broadland Special Protection Area and
Ramsar site must be carried out in accordance with the mitigation relating to
onshore ornithology contained in paragraphs 227 to 230 of the outline
landscape and ecological management strategy, which must be incorporated into
the ecological management plan.

###### Watercourse crossings

25

25.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works involving the crossing, diversion
and subsequent reinstatement of any designated main river or ordinary
watercourse may commence until a scheme and programme for any such crossing,
diversion and reinstatement in that stage has been submitted to and, approved
by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Norfolk County
Council, the Environment Agency, relevant drainage authorities and Natural
England.

25.2

The designated main river or ordinary watercourse must be crossed, diverted
and subsequently reinstated in accordance with the approved scheme and
programme.

25.3

Unless otherwise permitted under paragraph (1), throughout the period of
construction of the onshore transmission works, all ditches, watercourses,
field drainage systems and culverts must be maintained such that the flow of
water is not impaired or the drainage onto and from adjoining land rendered
less effective.

###### Construction hours

26

26.1

Construction work for the onshore transmission works must only take place
between 0700 hours and 1900 hours Monday to Friday, and 0700 hours to 1300
hours on Saturdays, with no activity on Sundays or bank holidays, except as
specified in paragraphs (2) to (4).

26.2

Outside the hours specified in paragraph (1), construction work may be
undertaken for essential activities including but not limited to—

26.2.a

continuous periods of operation that are required as assessed in the
environmental statement, such as concrete pouring, drilling, and pulling
cables (including fibre optic cables) through ducts;

26.2.b

delivery to the onshore transmission works of abnormal loads that may
otherwise cause congestion on the local road network;

26.2.c

works required that may necessitate the temporary closure of roads;

26.2.d

onshore transmission works requiring trenchless installation techniques;

26.2.e

onshore transmission works at the landfall;

26.2.f

commissioning or outage works associated with the extension to the Necton
National Grid substation comprised within Work No. 10A;

26.2.g

commissioning or outage works associated with the overhead line modification
works comprised within Work No. 11 and Work No. 11A;

26.2.h

electrical installation; and

26.2.i

emergency works.

26.3

Outside the hours specified in paragraph (1), construction work may be
undertaken for non-intrusive activities including but not limited to—

26.3.a

fitting out works within the onshore project substation buildings comprised
within Work No. 8A; and

26.3.b

daily start up or shut down;

26.4

Save for emergency works, full details, including but not limited to type of
activity, vehicle movements and type, timing and duration and any proposed
mitigation, of all essential construction activities under paragraph (2) and
undertaken outside the hours specified in paragraph (1) must be agreed with
the relevant planning authority in writing in advance, and must be carried out
within the agreed time.

26.5

No crushing or screening works must take place at any time on any of the
mobilisation areas, without the prior written consent of the relevant planning
authority.

###### Control of noise during operational phase and during maintenance

27

27.1

The noise rating level for the use of Work No. 8A and during maintenance must
not exceed 35dB L Aeq, (5 minutes)  at any time at a free field location
immediately adjacent to any noise sensitive location.

27.2

The noise rating level for the use of Work No. 8A and during maintenance must
not exceed 32 dB L Leq (15 minutes)  in the 100Hz third octave band at any
time at a free field location immediately adjacent to any noise sensitive
location.

27.3

Work No. 8A must not commence operation until a scheme for monitoring
compliance with the noise rating levels set out in paragraphs (1) and (2)
above has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.
The scheme must include identification of suitable monitoring locations (and
alternative surrogate locations if appropriate) and times when the monitoring
is to take place to demonstrate that the noise levels have been achieved after
both initial commencement of operations and six months after Work No. 8A is at
full operational capacity. Such measurements must be submitted to the relevant
planning authority no later than 28 days following completion to confirm the
rating level of operational noise emissions do not exceed the levels specified
in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), including details of any remedial works and a
programme of implementation should the emissions exceed the stated levels.

27.4

The monitoring scheme must be implemented as approved.

###### European protected species onshore

28

28.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until final pre-
construction survey work has been carried out to establish whether a European
protected species is present on any of the land affected, or likely to be
affected, by that stage of the onshore transmission works or in any of the
trees to be lopped or felled as part of that stage of the onshore transmission
works.

28.2

Where a European protected species is shown to be present, the relevant
part(s) of the onshore transmission works must not begin until, after
consultation with Natural England and the relevant planning authority, a
scheme of protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority. The onshore transmission works
must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

28.3

“ European protected species ” has the same meaning as in regulations 42 and
46 of the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 .

###### Onshore decommissioning

29

29.1

Within six months of the permanent cessation of commercial operation of the
onshore transmission works an onshore decommissioning plan must be submitted
to the relevant planning authority for approval.

29.2

The onshore decommissioning plan must be implemented as approved.

29.3

The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority in writing of the
permanent cessation of commercial operation of the onshore transmission works
within 28 days of such permanent cessation.

###### Requirement for written approval

30

Where under any of the above requirements the approval or agreement of the
Secretary of State, the relevant planning authority or another person is
required, that approval or agreement must be given in writing.

###### Amendments to approved details

31

31.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised project to be
carried out in accordance with the details approved by the relevant planning
authority or another person, the approved details must be carried out as
approved unless an amendment or variation is previously agreed in writing by
the relevant planning authority or that other person in accordance with
paragraph (2).

31.2

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details must be in
accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the environmental
statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to changes where it
has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the relevant planning authority
or that other person that the subject matter of the agreement sought is
unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental statement.

31.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the relevant planning authority or that
other person.

###### Operational drainage plan

32

32.1

Each of Work No. 8A and Work No. 8B and Work No. 10A, Work No. 10B, and Work
No. 10C must not commence until a written plan for drainage during operation
of the relevant work, has been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority, following consultation with Norfolk County Council and the
Environment Agency.

32.2

The operational drainage plan must accord with the principles for the relevant
work set out in the outline operational drainage plan, and must include a
timetable for implementation.

32.3

The operational drainage plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Skills and employment strategy

33

33.1

No stage of the onshore transmission works may commence until a skills and
employment strategy (which accords with the outline skills and employment
strategy) has been submitted to and approved in writing by Norfolk County
Council.

33.2

Prior to submission of the skills and employment strategy for approval in
accordance with paragraph (1), the undertaker must consult North Norfolk
District Council, Broadland District Council, Breckland District Council,
Norfolk County Council and the New Anglia Local Enterprise Partnership on the
content of the strategy.

33.3

The skills and employment strategy must be implemented as approved.

###### Cromer Primary Surveillance Radar

34

34.1

No erection of any wind turbine generator forming part of the authorised
development may commence until the Secretary of State having consulted with
NATS has confirmed satisfaction in writing that appropriate mitigation will be
implemented and maintained for the lifetime of the authorised development and
that arrangements have been put in place with NATS to ensure that the approved
mitigation is implemented and in operation prior to erection of the wind
turbine generators.

34.2

The undertaker must thereafter comply with all other obligations contained
within the approved mitigation for the lifetime of the authorised development.

34.3

For the purposes of this requirement—

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to prevent or remove any adverse
effects which the operation of the authorised development will have on NATs’
ability to provide safe and efficient air traffic (surveillance and control)
services/operations during the lifetime of the authorised development in
respect of which all necessary stakeholder consultation has been completed by
NATS and all necessary approvals and regulatory consents have been obtained; “
approved mitigation ” means the detailed Primary Surveillance Radar Mitigation
Scheme setting out the appropriate mitigation approved by the Secretary of
State and confirmed in writing in accordance with paragraph (1); “ NATS ”
means NATS (En-Route) Plc or any successor body; and “ lifetime of the
authorised development ” means the period ending when the wind turbine
generators are finally decommissioned and removed.

  Streets subject to Street Works

Article 9

      (1) Area (2) Street subject to street works   District of North Norfolk
Private track between reference points 1a and 1b on the works plan District of
North Norfolk WHIMPWELL STREET between reference points 2a and 2b on the works
plan District of North Norfolk Private track between reference points 2c and
2d on the works plan District of North Norfolk GRUB STREET between reference
points 2e and 2f on the works plan District of North Norfolk GRUBB STREET
between reference points 2g and 2h on the works plan District of North Norfolk
WALCOTT GREEN between reference points 3a and 3b on the works plan District of
North Norfolk B1159 between reference points 3c and 3d on the works plan
District of North Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD between reference points 3e and
3f on the works plan District of North Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD between
reference points 4a and 4b on the works plan District of North Norfolk THE
STREET between reference points 4c and 4d on the works plan District of North
Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD between reference points 5a and 5b on the works
plan District of North Norfolk HOOLEHOUSE ROAD between reference points 5c and
5d on the works plan District of North Norfolk CROSSWAYS LANE between
reference points 5e and 5f on the works plan District of North Norfolk BACTON
ROAD between reference points 6a and 6b on the works plan District of North
Norfolk THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD between reference points 6c and 6d on the works
plan District of North Norfolk THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD between reference points
6e and 6f on the works plan District of North Norfolk OLD HALL ROAD between
reference points 6g and 6h on the works plan District of North Norfolk NORTH
WALSHAM ROAD between reference points 7a and 7b on the works plan District of
North Norfolk PASTON ROAD between reference points 7c and 7d on the works plan
District of North Norfolk OLD HALL LANE between reference points 8a and 8b on
the works plan District of North Norfolk HALL LANE between reference points 8c
and 8d on the works plan District of North Norfolk LITTLE LONDON ROAD between
reference points 8e and 8f on the works plan District of North Norfolk B1145
between reference points 8g and 8h on the works plan District of North Norfolk
BRADFIELD ROAD between reference points 9a and 9b on the works plan District
of North Norfolk Private track between reference points 9c and 9d on the works
plan District of North Norfolk LYNGATE ROAD between reference points 9e and 9f
on the works plan District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD between reference
points 10a and 10b on the works plan District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD
between reference points 10c and 10d on the works plan District of North
Norfolk Private track between reference points 10e and 10f on the works plan
District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD between reference points 10g and 10h on
the works plan District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD between reference points
10i and 10j on the works plan District of North Norfolk BRICK KILN LANE
between reference points 11a and 11b on the works plan District of North
Norfolk Private track between reference points 11c and 11d on the works plan
District of North Norfolk RECTORY ROAD between reference points 12a and 12b on
the works plan District of North Norfolk FELMINGHAM ROAD between reference
points 12c and 12d on the works plan District of North Norfolk Private track
between reference points 13a and 13b on the works plan District of North
Norfolk CHURCH ROAD between reference points 13c and 13d on the works plan
District of North Norfolk CHURCH ROAD between reference points 13e and 13f on
the works plan District of North Norfolk Private track between reference
points 13g and 13h on the works plan District of North Norfolk Private track
between reference points 13i and 13j on the works plan District of North
Norfolk BANNINGHAM ROAD between reference points 14a and 14b on the works plan
District of Broadland Private track between reference points 14c and 14d on
the works plan District of Broadland A140 between reference points 14e and 14f
on the works plan District of Broadland DRABBLEGATE between reference points
14g and 14h on the works plan District of Broadland CROMER ROAD between
reference points 15a and 15b on the works plan District of Broadland INGWORTH
ROAD between reference points 16a and 16b on the works plan District of
Broadland BLICKLING ROAD between reference points 16c and 16d on the works
plan District of Broadland BLICKLING ROAD between reference points 16e and 16f
on the works plan District of Broadland SILVERGATE LANE between reference
points 16g and 16h on the works plan District of Broadland AYLSHAM ROAD
between reference points 17a and 17b on the works plan District of Broadland
HEYDON ROAD between reference points 18a and 18b on the works plan District of
Broadland HEYDON ROAD between reference points 18c and 18d on the works plan
District of Broadland OULTON STREET between reference points 19a and 19b on
the works plan District of Broadland B1149 between reference points 19c and
19d on the works plan District of Broadland OULTON STREET between reference
points 20a and 20b on the works plan District of Broadland SOUTHGATE LANE
between reference points 20c and 20d on the works plan District of Broadland
HEYDON ROAD between reference points 20e and 20f on the works plan District of
Broadland Private track between reference points 21a and 21b on the works plan
District of Broadland B1145 between reference points 21c and 21d on the works
plan District of Broadland B1145 between reference points 21e and 21f on the
works plan District of Broadland Private track between reference points 21g
and 21h on the works plan District of Broadland B1145 between reference points
22a and 22b on the works plan District of Broadland WOOD DALLING ROAD between
reference points 22c and 22d on the works plan District of Broadland WOOD
DALLING ROAD between reference points 22e and 22f on the works plan District
of Broadland Private track between reference points 22g and 22h on the works
plan District of Broadland KERDISTON ROAD between reference points 23a and 23b
on the works plan District of Broadland Private track between reference points
23c and 23d on the works plan District of Broadland B1145 between reference
points 24a and 24b on the works plan District of Broadland B1145 between
reference points 24c and 24d on the works plan District of Broadland B1145
between reference points 24e and 24f on the works plan District of Broadland
Private track between reference points 24g and 24h on the works plan District
of Broadland B1145 between reference points 24i and 24j on the works plan
District of Broadland Private track between reference points 24k and 24l on
the works plan District of Broadland NOWHERE LANE between reference points 24m
and 24n on the works plan District of Broadland JORDAN LANE between reference
points 25a and 25b on the works plan District of Breckland Private track
between reference points 26a and 26b on the works plan District of Breckland
Private track between reference points 26c and 26d on the works plan District
of Breckland Private track between reference points 26e and 26f on the works
plan District of Breckland WELL LANE between reference points 27a and 27b on
the works plan District of Breckland FAKENHAM ROAD (A1067) between reference
points 27c and 27d on the works plan District of Breckland LIME KILN ROAD
between reference points 27e and 27f on the works plan District of Breckland
Private track between reference points 27g and 27h on the works plan District
of Breckland LIME KILN ROAD between reference points 27i and 27j on the works
plan District of Breckland Private track between reference points 28a and 28b
on the works plan District of Breckland ELSING LANE between reference points
28c and 28d on the works plan District of Breckland BYLAUGH ROAD between
reference points 28e and 28f on the works plan District of Breckland Private
track between reference points 28g and 28h on the works plan District of
Breckland ELSING ROAD between reference points 29a and 29b on the works plan
District of Breckland ELSING ROAD between reference points 29c and 29d on the
works plan District of Breckland WOODGATE ROAD between reference points 30a
and 30b on the works plan District of Breckland Frog’s Hall Lane between
reference points 30c and 30d on the works plan District of Breckland Private
track between reference points 30e and 30f on the works plan District of
Breckland NORWICH ROAD between reference points 31a and 31b on the works plan
District of Breckland MOWLES ROAD between reference points 31c and 31d on the
works plan District of Breckland DEREHAM ROAD between reference points 31e and
31f on the works plan District of Breckland SWANTON ROAD between reference
points 31g and 31h on the works plan District of Breckland Dirty Lane (private
track) between reference points 32a and 32b on the works plan District of
Breckland HOE ROAD SOUTH between reference points 32c and 32d on the works
plan District of Breckland HOE ROAD SOUTH between reference points 32e and 32f
on the works plan District of Breckland Private track between reference points
33a and 33b on the works plan District of Breckland BACK LANE between
reference points 33c and 33d on the works plan District of Breckland BACK LANE
between reference points 33e and 33f on the works plan District of Breckland
HOLT ROAD (B1146) between reference points 34a and 34b on the works plan
District of Breckland HOLT ROAD (B1146) between reference points 34c and 34d
on the works plan District of Breckland Private track between reference points
34e and 34f on the works plan District of Breckland MILL LANE between
reference points 34g and 34h on the works plan District of Breckland
GRESSENHALL ROAD between reference points 35a and 35b on the works plan
District of Breckland CHURCH LANE between reference points 35c and 35d on the
works plan District of Breckland CHURCH LANE between reference points 35e and
35f on the works plan District of Breckland LONGHAM ROAD between reference
points 36a and 36b on the works plan District of Breckland A47 between
reference points 37a and 37b on the works plan District of Breckland DALE ROAD
between reference points 37c and 37d on the works plan District of Breckland
DALE ROAD between reference points 37e and 37f on the works plan District of
Breckland DEREHAM ROAD between reference points 37g and 37h on the works plan
District of Breckland DEREHAM ROAD between reference points 37i and 37j on the
works plan District of Breckland BRADENHAM LANE between reference points 38a
and 38b on the works plan District of Breckland Private track between
reference points 38c and 38d on the works plan District of Breckland BRADENHAM
LANE between reference points 38e and 38f on the works plan District of
Breckland HULVER STREET between reference points 38h and 38i on the works plan
District of Breckland NOT USED: 39a and 39b District of Breckland HAGGARDS WAY
between reference points 39c and 39d on the works plan District of Breckland
NOT USED: 39e and 39f District of Breckland NOT USED: 39g and 39h District of
Breckland Smugglers lane between reference points 39i and 39j on the works
plan District of Breckland NOT USED: 39k and 39l District of Breckland Private
track between reference points 39m and 39n on the works plan District of
Breckland Goggles Lane between reference points 40a and 40b on the works plan
District of Breckland NOT USED: 40c and 40d District of Breckland Private
track between reference points 40e and 40f on the works plan District of
Breckland Private track between reference points 41a and 41b on the works plan
District of Breckland Private track between reference points 41c and 41d on
the works plan District of Breckland Private track between reference points
41e and 41f on the works plan District of Breckland Private track between
reference points 41g and 41h on the works plan District of Breckland A47
between reference points 41i and 41j on the works plan District of Breckland
A47 between reference points 41k and 41l on the works plan District of
Breckland Private track between reference points 41m and 41n on the works plan
District of Breckland Private track between reference points 41o and 41p on
the works plan District of Breckland A47 between reference points 42a and 42b
on the works plan

  Public Rights of Way to be temporarily stopped up

Article 10

      (1) Area (2) Public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up (3)
Extent of temporary stopping up   District of North Norfolk Restricted byway
reference 1 Happisburgh RB22 Approximately 10 metres of Restricted byway
reference 1 Happisburgh RB22 shown in purple between points marked A & B on
sheet 1 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District
of North Norfolk Footpath reference 2 Happisburgh FP7 Approximately 50 metres
of footpath reference 2 Happisburgh FP7 shown in orange between points marked
C & D on sheet 3 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 3 Witton FP3 Approximately 170
metres of footpath reference 3 Witton FP3 shown in orange between points
marked E & F on sheet 4 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped
up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 4 Witton FP4
Approximately 50 metres of footpath reference 4 Witton FP4 shown in orange
between points marked G & H on sheet 4 of the public rights of way to be
temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 5
Witton FP7 Approximately 50 metres of footpath reference 5 Witton FP7 shown in
orange between points marked I & J on sheet 5 of the public rights of way to
be temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 6
Witton FP8 Approximately 60 metres of footpath reference 6 Witton FP8 shown in
orange between points marked K & L on sheet 5 of the public rights of way to
be temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 7
Paston FP4 Approximately 180 metres of footpath reference 7 Paston FP4 shown
in orange between points marked M & N on sheet 7 of the public rights of way
to be temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference
8 Knapton FP10 Approximately 60 metres of footpath reference 8 Knapton FP10
shown in orange between points marked O & P on sheet 8 of the public rights of
way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath
reference 9 North Walsham FP4 Approximately 100 metres of footpath reference 9
North Walsham FP4 shown in orange between points marked Q & R on sheet 10 of
the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of North
Norfolk Bridleway reference 10 Felmingham BR12 Approximately 300 metres of
Bridleway reference 10 Felmingham BR12 shown in green between points marked S
& T on sheet 10 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 11 Suffield FP1 Approximately 50
metres of footpath reference 11 Suffield FP1 shown in orange between points
marked U & V on sheet 11 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped
up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 12 Suffield FP3
Approximately 100 metres of footpath reference 12 Suffield FP3 shown in orange
between points marked W & X on sheet 12 of the public rights of way to be
temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 13
Colby FP2 Approximately 90 metres of footpath reference 13 Colby FP2 shown in
orange between points marked Y & Z on sheet 13 of the public rights of way to
be temporarily stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Footpath reference 14
Colby FP2 Approximately 10 metres of footpath reference 14 Colby FP2 shown in
orange between points marked AA & AB on sheet 13 of the public rights of way
to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Broadland Bridleway reference 15
Aylsham BR30 Approximately 50 metres of Bridleway reference 15 Aylsham BR30
shown in green between points marked AC & AD on sheet 14 of the public rights
of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Broadland Footpath
reference 16 Blickling FP11 Approximately 100 metres of footpath reference 16
Blickling FP11 shown in orange between points marked AE & AF on sheet 15 of
the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of
Broadland Bridleway reference 17 Blickling BR12 Approximately 10 metres of
Bridleway reference 17 Blickling BR12 shown in green between points marked AG
& AH on sheet 16 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of Broadland Footpath reference 18 Blickling FP14 Approximately 80
metres of footpath reference 18 Blickling FP14 shown in orange between points
marked AI & AJ on sheet 16 of the public rights of way to be temporarily
stopped up plan District of Broadland Long distance trail reference 19 Weavers
Way Approximately 80 metres of Long distance trail reference 19 Weavers Way
shown in brown between points marked AK & AL on sheet 16 of the public rights
of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Broadland Footpath
reference 20 Reepham FP18 Approximately 50 metres of footpath reference 20
Reepham FP18 shown in orange between points marked AM & AN on sheet 21 of the
public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Broadland
Footpath reference 21 Reepham FP34 Approximately 360 metres of footpath
reference 21 Reepham FP34 shown in orange between points marked AO & AP on
sheet 20 and 21 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of Broadland Footpath reference 22 Salle FP8 Approximately 50 metres
of footpath reference 22 Salle FP8 shown in orange between points marked AQ &
AR on sheet 22 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of Broadland Footpath reference 23 Reepham FP11 Approximately 10
metres of footpath reference 23 Reepham FP11 shown in orange between points
marked AS & AT on sheet 22 of the public rights of way to be temporarily
stopped up plan District of Broadland Footpath reference 24 Reepham FP8
Approximately 50 metres of footpath reference 24 Reepham FP8 shown in orange
between points marked AX & AU on sheet 22 of the public rights of way to be
temporarily stopped up plan District of Broadland Footpath reference 24a
Reepham FP8 Approximately 6 metres of footpath reference 24a Reepham FP8 shown
in orange between points marked AV & AW on sheet 22 of the public rights of
way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Breckland Long distance
trail reference 25 Wensum Way Approximately 950 metres of Long distance trail
reference 25 Wensum Way shown in brown between points marked AY & AZ on sheet
28 and 29 of the public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up plan
District of Breckland Long distance trail reference 26 Wensum Way
Approximately 50 metres of Long distance trail reference 26 Wensum Way shown
in brown between points marked BA & BB on sheet 29 of the public rights of way
to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Breckland Footpath reference 27
Dereham FP9 Approximately 60 metres of footpath reference 27 Dereham FP9 shown
in orange between points marked BC & BD on sheet 32 of the public rights of
way to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Breckland Footpath reference
28 Hoe FP6 Approximately 570 metres of footpath reference 28 Hoe FP6 shown in
orange between points marked BE & BF on sheet 34 of the public rights of way
to be temporarily stopped up plan District of Breckland Footpath reference 29
Dereham FP20 Approximately 280 metres of footpath reference 29 Dereham FP20
shown in orange between points marked BG & BH on sheet 34 of the public rights
of way to be temporarily stopped up plan

  Streets to be stopped up

Article 11

      (1) Area (2) Street to be stopped up (3) Extent of stopping up
District of North Norfolk Private track Approximately 340 metres of Private
track as is within Work No.4C as shown between point 1a and 1b on sheet 1 of
the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk WHIMPWELL STREET
Approximately 50 metres of WHIMPWELL STREET as is within Work No.5 as shown on
sheet 2a and 2b on sheet 2 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is
within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 2c and 2d on sheet 2 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of North Norfolk GRUB STREET Approximately 50 metres
of GRUB STREET as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 2e and 2f on sheet 2
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk GRUBB STREET
Approximately 50 metres of GRUBB STREET as is within Work No.5 as shown on
sheet 2g and 2h on sheet 2 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk WALCOTT GREEN Approximately 50 metres of WALCOTT GREEN as is
within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 3a and 3b on sheet 3 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of North Norfolk B1159 Approximately 50 metres of
B1159 as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 3c and 3d on sheet 3 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD
Approximately 20 metres of NORTH WALSHAM ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown
on sheet 3e and 3f on sheet 3 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD Approximately 30 metres of NORTH WALSHAM ROAD
as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 4a and 4b on sheet 4 of the streets
to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk THE STREET Approximately 50
metres of THE STREET as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 4c and 4d on
sheet 4 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk NORTH
WALSHAM ROAD Approximately 70 metres of NORTH WALSHAM ROAD as is within Work
No.5 as shown on sheet 5a and 5b on sheet 5 of the streets to be stopped up
plan District of North Norfolk HOOLEHOUSE ROAD Approximately 50 metres of
HOOLEHOUSE ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 5c and 5d on sheet 5
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk CROSSWAYS LANE
Approximately 40 metres of CROSSWAYS LANE as is within Work No.5 as shown on
sheet 5e and 5f on sheet 5 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk BACTON ROAD Approximately 50 metres of BACTON ROAD as is within
Work No.5 as shown on sheet 6a and 6b on sheet 6 of the streets to be stopped
up plan District of North Norfolk THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD Approximately 60
metres of THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 6c
and 6d on sheet 6 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North
Norfolk THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD Approximately 30 metres of THATCHED COTTAGE ROAD
as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 6e and 6f on sheet 6 of the streets
to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk NORTH WALSHAM ROAD
Approximately 50 metres of NORTH WALSHAM ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown
on sheet 7a and 7b on sheet 7 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk PASTON ROAD Approximately 60 metres of PASTON ROAD as is within
Work No.5 as shown on sheet 7c and 7d on sheet 7 of the streets to be stopped
up plan District of North Norfolk OLD HALL LANE Approximately 30 metres of OLD
HALL LANE as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 8a and 8b on sheet 8 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk HALL LANE
Approximately 80 metres of HALL LANE as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet
8c and 8d on sheet 8 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North
Norfolk LITTLE LONDON ROAD Approximately 90 metres of LITTLE LONDON ROAD as is
within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 8e and 8f on sheet 8 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of North Norfolk BRADFIELD ROAD Approximately 50
metres of BRADFIELD ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 9a and 9b on
sheet 9 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Private
track Approximately 60 metres of Private track as is within Work No.5 as shown
on sheet 9c and 9d on sheet 9 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk LYNGATE ROAD Approximately 90 metres of LYNGATE ROAD as is
within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 9e and 9f on sheet 9/10 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD Approximately 30
metres of CROMER ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 10a and 10b on
sheet 10 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk
Private track Approximately 60 metres of Private track as is within Work No.5
as shown on sheet 10c and 10d on sheet 10 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD Approximately 40 metres of CROMER ROAD
as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 10e and 10f on sheet 10 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk CROMER ROAD
Approximately 50 metres of CROMER ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on
sheet 10g and 10h on sheet 10 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
North Norfolk BRICK KILN LANE Approximately 20 metres of BRICK KILN LANE as is
within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 11a and 11b on sheet 11 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Private track Approximately 50
metres of Private track as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 11c and 11d
on sheet 11 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk
RECTORY ROAD Approximately 50 metres of RECTORY ROAD as is within Work No.5 as
shown on sheet 12a and 12b on sheet 12 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of North Norfolk FELMINGHAM ROAD Approximately 50 metres of
FELMINGHAM ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 12c and 12d on sheet
12 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk Private
track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Work No.5 as shown
on sheet 13a and 13b on sheet 13 of the streets to be stopped up plan District
of North Norfolk CHURCH ROAD Approximately 30 metres of CHURCH ROAD as is
within Works No.5 as shown on sheet 13c and 13d on sheet 13 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk CHURCH ROAD Approximately 50
metres of CHURCH ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 13e and 13f on
sheet 13 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk
Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Work No.5
as shown on sheet 13g and 13h on sheet 13 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of North Norfolk Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private
track as is within Work No.5 as shown on sheet 13i and 13j on sheet 13 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of North Norfolk BANNINGHAM ROAD
Approximately 50 metres of BANNINGHAM ROAD as is within Work No.5 as shown on
sheet 14a and 14b on sheet 14 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland Private track Approximately 60 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.6 as shown on sheet 14c and 14d on sheet 14 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Broadland CROMER ROAD Approximately 50 metres of
CROMER ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 15a and 15b on sheet 15
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland INGWORTH ROAD
Approximately 30 metres of INGWORTH ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 16a and 16b on sheet 16 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland BLICKLING ROAD Approximately 50 metres of BLICKLING ROAD as is
within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 16c and 16d on sheet 16 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Broadland BLICKLING ROAD Approximately 30
metres of BLICKLING ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 16e and 16f
on sheet 16 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland
SILVERGATE LANE Approximately 50 metres of SILVERGATE LANE as is within Work
No.6 as shown on sheet 16g and 16h on sheet 16 of the streets to be stopped up
plan District of Broadland AYLSHAM ROAD Approximately 50 metres of AYLSHAM
ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 17a and 17b on sheet 17 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland HEYDON ROAD Approximately
70 metres of HEYDON ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 18a and 18b
on sheet 18 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland HEYDON
ROAD Approximately 30 metres of HEYDON ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 18c and 18d on sheet 18 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland OULTON STREET Approximately 30 metres of OULTON STREET as is within
Work No.6 as shown on sheet 19a and 19b on sheet 19 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Broadland B1149 Approximately 50 metres of B1149
as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 19c and 19d on sheet 19 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland OULTON STREET
Approximately 70 metres of OULTON STREET as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 20a and 20b on sheet 20 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland SOUTHGATE LANE Approximately 50 metres of SOUTHGATE LANE as is
within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 20c and 20d on sheet 20 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Broadland HEYDON ROAD Approximately 50 metres
of HEYDON ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 20e and 20f on sheet
20 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland Private track
Approximately 60 metres of Private track as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 21a and 21b on sheet 21 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland B1145 Approximately 70 metres of B1145 as is within Work No.6 as
shown on sheet 21c and 21d on sheet 21 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Broadland B1145 Approximately 30 metres of B1145 as is within Work
No.6 as shown on sheet 21e and 21f on sheet 21 of the streets to be stopped up
plan District of Broadland Private track Approximately 100 metres of Private
track as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 21g and 21h on sheet 21 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland B1145 Approximately 50
metres of B1145 as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 22a and 22b on sheet
22 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland WOOD DALLING
ROAD Approximately 50 metres of WOOD DALLING ROAD as is within Work No.6 as
shown on sheet 22c and 22d on sheet 22 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Broadland WOOD DALLING ROAD Approximately 30 metres of WOOD
DALLING ROAD as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 22e and 22f on sheet 22
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland Private track
Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 22g and 22h on sheet 22 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland KERDISTON ROAD Approximately 50 metres of KERDISTON ROAD as is
within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 23a and 23b on sheet 23 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Broadland B1145 Approximately 50 metres of
B1145 as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 24a and 24b on sheet 24 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland B1145 Approximately 30
metres of B1145 as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 24c and 24d on sheet
24 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland B1145
Approximately 30 metres of B1145 as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 24e
and 24f on sheet 24 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland
B1145 Approximately 30 metres of B1145 as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 24g and 24h on sheet 24 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Broadland Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.6 as shown on sheet 24i and 24j on sheet 24 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Broadland NOWHERE LANE Approximately 50 metres of
NOWHERE LANE as is within Work No.6 as shown on sheet 24k and 24l on sheet
24/25 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Broadland JORDAN LANE
Approximately 50 metres of JORDAN LANE as is within Work No.6 as shown on
sheet 25a and 25b on sheet 25 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.7 as shown on sheet 26a and 26b on sheet 26 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of
Private track as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 26c and 26d on sheet 26
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track
Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 26e and 26f on sheet 26 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland WELL LANE Approximately 70 metres of WELL LANE as is within Work
No.7 as shown on sheet 27a and 27b on sheet 26/27 of the streets to be stopped
up plan District of Breckland FAKENHAM ROAD (A1067) Approximately 50 metres of
FAKENHAM ROAD (A1067) as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 27c and 27d on
sheet 27 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland LIME KILN
ROAD Approximately 100 metres of LIME KILN ROAD as is within Work No.7 as
shown on sheet 27e and 27f on sheet 27 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Breckland Private track Approximately 70 metres of Private track
as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 27g and 27h on sheet 27 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland LIME KILN ROAD
Approximately 60 metres of LIME KILN ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 27i and 27j on sheet 27 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.7 as shown on sheet 28a and 28b on sheet 28 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland ELSING LANE Approximately 50 metres of
ELSING LANE as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 28c and 28d on sheet 28
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland BYLAUGH ROAD
Approximately 30 metres of BYLAUGH ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 28e and 28f on sheet 28 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland ELSING ROAD Approximately 30 metres of ELSING ROAD as is within Work
No.7 as shown on sheet 29a and 29b on sheet 29 of the streets to be stopped up
plan District of Breckland ELSING ROAD Approximately 50 metres of ELSING ROAD
as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 29c and 29d on sheet 29 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland WOODGATE ROAD
Approximately 20 metres of WOODGATE ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 30a and 30b on sheet 30 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Frog’s Hall Lane Approximately 50 metres of Frog’s Hall Lane as is
within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 30c and 30d on sheet 30/31 of the streets
to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track Approximately 50
metres of Private track as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 30e and 30f
on sheet 30 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland NORWICH
ROAD Approximately 50 metres of NORWICH ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown
on sheet 31a and 31b on sheet 31 of the streets to be stopped up plan District
of Breckland DEREHAM ROAD Approximately 80 metres of DEREHAM ROAD as is within
Work No.7 as shown on sheet 31c and 31d on sheet 31/32 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland SWANTON ROAD Approximately 50 metres of
SWANTON ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 31e and 31f on sheet
31/32 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Dirty Lane
(Private track) Approximately 60 metres of Dirty Lane as is within Work No.7
as shown on sheet 32a and 32b on sheet 32 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Breckland HOE ROAD SOUTH Approximately 30 metres of HOE ROAD SOUTH
as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 32c and 32d on sheet 32 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland HOE ROAD SOUTH
Approximately 30 metres of HOE ROAD SOUTH as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 32e and 32f on sheet 32 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Private track Approximately 100 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.7 as shown on sheet 33a and 33b on sheet 33 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland BACK LANE Approximately 30 metres of
BACK LANE as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 33c and 33d on sheet 33 of
the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland BACK LANE
Approximately 50 metres of BACK LANE as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet
33e and 33f on sheet 33 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland HOLT ROAD (B1146) Approximately 30 metres of HOLT ROAD (B1146) as is
within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 34a and 34b on sheet 34 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Breckland HOLT ROAD (B1146) Approximately 50
metres of HOLT ROAD (B1146) as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 34c and
34d on sheet 34 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland
Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Work No.7
as shown on sheet 34e and 34f on sheet 34 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Breckland CHURCH LANE Approximately 30 metres of CHURCH LANE as is
within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 35a and 35b on sheet 35 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Breckland CHURCH LANE Approximately 50 metres
of CHURCH LANE as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 35c and 35d on sheet
35 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland LONGHAM ROAD
Approximately 50 metres of LONGHAM ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 36a and 36b on sheet 36 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland DALE ROAD Approximately 50 metres of DALE ROAD as is within Work
No.7 as shown on sheet 37a and 37b on sheet 37 of the streets to be stopped up
plan District of Breckland DEREHAM ROAD Approximately 40 metres of DEREHAM
ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 37c and 37d on sheet 37 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland DALE ROAD Approximately 50
metres of DALE ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 37e and 37f on
sheet 37 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland DEREHAM
ROAD Approximately 40 metres of DEREHAM ROAD as is within Work No.7 as shown
on sheet 37g and 37h on sheet 37 of the streets to be stopped up plan District
of Breckland BRADENHAM LANE Approximately 40 metres of BRADENHAM LANE as is
within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 38a and 38b on sheet 38 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres
of Private track as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 38c and 38d on sheet
38 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland BRADENHAM LANE
Approximately 30 metres of BRADENHAM LANE as is within Work No.7 as shown on
sheet 38e and 38f on sheet 38 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland HULVER STREET Approximately 50 metres of HULVER STREET as is within
Work No.7 as shown on sheet 38g and 38h on sheet 38 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland HAGGARDS WAY NOT USED: 39a and 39b
District of Breckland HAGGARDS WAY Approximately 70 metres of HAGGARDS WAY as
is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 39c and 39d on sheet 39 of the streets
to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track NOT USED: 39e and
39f District of Breckland Smugglers Lane NOT USED: 39g and 39h District of
Breckland Smugglers lane Approximately 50 metres of Smugglers lane as is
within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 39i and 39j on sheet 39 of the streets to
be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track NOT USED: 39k and 39l
District of Breckland Smugglers lane Approximately 70 metres of Private track
as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 39n and 39m on sheet 39 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Goggles Lane Approximately
50 metres of Goggles Lane as is within Work No.7 as shown on sheet 40a and 40b
on sheet 40 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private
track NOT USED: 40c and 40d District of Breckland Private track Approximately
360 metres of Private track as is within Works No.8B and 9 as shown on sheet
40e and 40f on sheet 40 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within
Work No.9 as shown on sheet 41a and 41b on sheet 41 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of
Private track as is within Work No.9 as shown on sheet 41c and 41d on sheet 41
of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track
Approximately 50 metres of Private track as is within Works No.9 and 10C as
shown on sheet 41e and 41f on sheet 41 of the streets to be stopped up plan
District of Breckland Private track Approximately 50 metres of Private track
as is within Works No.9 and 12 as shown on sheet 41g and 41h on sheet 41 of
the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland A47 Approximately 470
metres of A47 as is within Works No.12 as shown on sheet 41i and 41j on sheet
41 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland A47
Approximately 50 metres of A47 as is within Site Side Access as shown on sheet
41k and 41l on sheet 41 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of
Breckland Private track Approximately 150 metres of Private track as is within
Works No.10A as shown on sheet 41m and 41n on sheet 41 of the streets to be
stopped up plan District of Breckland Private track Approximately 170 metres
of Private track as is within Works No.10B and 11 as shown on sheet 41o and
41p on sheet 41 of the streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland A47
Approximately 125 metres of the A47 (located within National Grid overhead
line temporary works area and overhead line modification corridor (Work No 11
and Work No 11A) between point 41q and 41r as shown on sheet 41/42 of the
streets to be stopped up plan District of Breckland A47 Approximately 470
metres of A47 as is within Work No.12 as shown on sheet 42a and 42b on sheet
42 of the streets to be stopped up plan

  Access to Works

Article 12

      (1) Area (2) Description of access   District of North Norfolk Vehicular
access from Whimpwell Green to the North marked point at AC1 on the access to
works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Whimpwell Street to
the North marked point at AC2 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Whimpwell Street to the East & West marked point
at AC3 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from Grub Street to the North marked point at AC4 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Grub Street to the East & West
marked point at AC5 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk
Vehicular access from Grub Street to the South marked point at AC6 on the
access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private
track to the West marked point at AC7 on the access to works plan District of
North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the North & South marked
point at AC8 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular
access from private track to the North East marked point at AC9 on the access
to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to
the East & West marked point at AC10 on the access to works plan District of
North Norfolk Vehicular access from B1159 to the East & West marked point at
AC11 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from North Walsham Road to the South marked point at AC12 on the access to
works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from North Walsham Road
to the South marked point at AC13 on the access to works plan District of
North Norfolk Vehicular access from The Street to the East & West marked point
at AC14 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from Happisburgh Road to the South marked point at AC15 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Happisburgh Road to the
East & West marked point at AC16 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Happisburgh Road to the North marked point at
AC17 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from private track to the East & West marked point at AC18 on the access to
works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to
the North marked point at AC19 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Edingthorpe to the South marked point at AC20 on
the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from
Bacton Road to the East & West marked point at AC21 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Edingthorpe to the East &
West marked point at AC22 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Edingthorpe to the North marked point at AC23 on
the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from
Edingthorpe to the North marked point at AC24 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East
marked point at AC25 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk
Vehicular access from private track to the West marked point at AC26 on the
access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from North
Walsham Road to the South marked point at AC27 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Walsham Road to the East &
West marked point at AC28 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from North Walsham Road to the South marked point at
AC29 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from private track to the East marked point at AC30 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East
marked point at AC30a on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk
Vehicular access from private track to the West marked point at AC31 on the
access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private
track to the East & West marked point at AC32 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from North Walsham Road to the
North marked point at AC33 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Hall Lane to the North marked point at AC34 on
the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Hall
Lane to the East & West marked point at AC35 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Little London Road to the
North marked point at AC36 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from London Road to the East & West marked point at
AC37 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from B1145 to the West marked point at AC38 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Lyngate Road to the North
marked point at AC39 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk
Vehicular access from Lyngate Road to the North marked point at AC40 on the
access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Lyngate
Road to the North marked point at AC41 on the access to works plan District of
North Norfolk Vehicular access from Lyngate Road to the North marked point at
AC42 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from Bradfield Road to the East & West marked point at AC43 on the access to
works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Lyngate Road to the
North marked point at AC44 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Lyngate Road to the North marked point at AC45
on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from
Lyngate Road to the East & West marked point at AC46 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Cromer Road A149 to the
East & West marked point at AC47 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from footpath Felmingham BR12 off Cromer Road to the
East & West marked point at AC48 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked point at
AC49 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from private track to the West marked point at AC50 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from Brick Kiln Lane to the
South marked point at AC51 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from Brick Kiln Lane to the South marked point at
AC52 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from private track to the East marked point at AC53 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East
& West marked point at AC54 on the access to works plan District of North
Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked point at
AC55 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access
from private track to the West marked point at AC56 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East
marked point at AC57 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk
Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked point at AC58 on
the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from
private track to the South West marked point at AC59 on the access to works
plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track off Church
Road to the East & West marked point at AC60 on the access to works plan
District of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track off Colby Road
to the East & West marked point at AC61 on the access to works plan District
of North Norfolk Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked
point at AC62 on the access to works plan District of North Norfolk Vehicular
access from private track to the South & East marked point at AC63 on the
access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the
North marked point at AC64 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from A140 to the East marked point at AC65 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from A140 to the East & West
marked point at AC66 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from A140 to the West marked point at AC67 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Drabblegate to the West
marked point at AC68 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from Drabblegate to the South marked point at AC69 on the
access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Drabblegate
to the East marked point at AC70 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from Cromer Road to the East marked point at AC71
on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Cromer
Road to the East & West marked point at AC72 on the access to works plan
District of Broadland Vehicular access from Cromer Road to the West marked
point at AC73 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from Cromer Road to the North marked point at AC74 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the
South marked point at AC75 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from Blickling Road to the North marked point at AC76 on the
access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Blickling
Road to the East & West marked point at AC77 on the access to works plan
District of Broadland Vehicular access from Blickling Road to the South marked
point at AC78 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from Silvergate Lane to the East marked point at AC79 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Silvergate Lane to the
East & West marked point at AC80 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the South marked point at
AC81 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from
Aylsham Road to the North & South marked point at AC82 on the access to works
plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Aylsham Road to the South
marked point at AC83 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from private track to the North East & South West marked
point at AC84 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from private track to the South marked point at AC85 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the
South marked point at AC86 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from private track to the South marked point at AC87 on the
access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from The Street to
the East marked point at AC88 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from B1149 to the East & West marked point at AC89
on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1149
to the South marked point at AC90 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the East marked point at AC91
on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from
private track to the East & West marked point at AC92 on the access to works
plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the North
marked point at AC93 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from Heydon Lane to the East & West marked point at AC94 on
the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from Heydon
Lane to the West marked point at AC95 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked point
at AC96 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access
from private track to the North marked point at AC97 on the access to works
plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the North
marked point at AC98 on the access to works plan District of Broadland NOT
USED: AC99 District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the North
marked point at AC100 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from private track off Cawston Road to the East & West marked
point at AC101 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from B1145 to the East & West marked point at AC102 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the South
marked point at AC103 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from B1145 to the North marked point at AC104 on the access
to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the East &
West marked point at AC105 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from B1145 to the East marked point at AC106 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the
East & West marked point at AC107 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from Wood Dalling Road to the West marked point at
AC108 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from
Kerdiston Road to the East & West marked point at AC109 on the access to works
plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the West marked
point at AC110 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from B1145 to the South marked point at AC111 on the access to works
plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from B1145 to the East marked
point at AC112 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular
access from private track to the North marked point at AC113 on the access to
works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the
East & West marked point at AC114 on the access to works plan District of
Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the North marked point at
AC115 on the access to works plan District of Broadland Vehicular access from
private track to the East marked point at AC116 on the access to works plan
District of Broadland Vehicular access from private track to the North & South
marked point at AC117 on the access to works plan District of Broadland
Vehicular access from private track to the South marked point at AC118 on the
access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Well Lane to
the North marked point at AC119 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from Well Lane to the North & South marked point at
AC120 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Well Lane to the East marked point at AC121 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Lime Kiln Road to the East & West
marked point at AC122 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from Lime Kiln Road to the East & West marked point at AC123
on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Lime
Kiln Road to the West marked point at AC124 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Lime Kiln Road to the North &
South marked point at AC125 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from Elsing Lane to the East & West marked point at AC126 on
the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private
track to the South marked point at AC127 on the access to works plan District
of Breckland Vehicular access from Elsing Road to the East & West marked point
at AC128 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access
from Elsing Road to the West marked point at AC129 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Elsing Road to the West marked
point at AC130 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from Elsing Road to the North marked point at AC131 on the access to
works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track to the
East marked point at AC132 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from Frogs Hall Lane to the East & West marked point at AC133
on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Frogs
Hall Lane to the East marked point at AC134 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from B1147 to the North marked point at
AC135 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Norwich Road to the East & West marked point at AC136 on the access to works
plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from B1147 to the East & West
marked point at AC137 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from Swanton Road to the East & West marked point at AC138 on
the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Swanton
Road to the South marked point at AC139 on the access to works plan District
of Breckland Vehicular access from Hoe Road S to the South marked point at
AC140 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Swanton Road to the North marked point at AC141 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track to the South marked
point at AC142 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from private track to the South marked point at AC143 on the access to
works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track to the
South marked point at AC144 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from private track to the East & West marked point at AC145
on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from B1146
to the North marked point at AC146 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from B1146 to the East & West marked point at AC147
on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from B1146
to the West marked point at AC148 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from B1146 to the South marked point at AC149 on
the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from unnamed
track to the West marked point at AC150 on the access to works plan District
of Breckland Vehicular access from Mill Lane to the East marked point at AC151
on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Dereham to the South marked point at AC152 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Dereham to the East & West marked
point at AC153 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from private track to the East & West marked point at AC154 on the
access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track
to the South marked point at AC155 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from private track to the South marked point at
AC156 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
private track to the North & West marked point at AC157 on the access to works
plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track to the South &
West marked point at AC158 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from private track to the North marked point at AC159 on the
access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track
to the West marked point at AC160 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from Dale Road to the West marked point at AC161 on
the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Dale Road
to the North & South marked point at AC162 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Dereham Road to the North marked
point at AC163 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from Dale Road to the East & West marked point at AC164 on the access
to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Dereham Road to the
East & West marked point at AC165 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from Bradenham Lane to the North marked point at
AC166 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Bradenham Lane to the North marked point at AC167 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland Vehicular access from Bradenham Lane to the North marked
point at AC168 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from Hulver Street to the East & West marked point at AC169 on the
access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track
to the North marked point at AC170 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from private track off Haggards Way to the East &
West marked point at AC171 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
NOT USED: AC172 District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track off
Haggards Way to the West marked point at AC173 on the access to works plan
District of Breckland NOT USED: AC174 District of Breckland Vehicular access
from private track off Smugglers Lane to the East & West marked point at
AC174a on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from
Goggles Lane to the East & West marked point at AC175 on the access to works
plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from Goggles Lane to the South
marked point at AC176 on the access to works plan District of Breckland NOT
USED: AC177 District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track off
Lodge Lane to the North & South marked point at AC178 on the access to works
plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from private track off A47 to the
East & West marked point at AC179 on the access to works plan District of
Breckland Vehicular access from private track off A47 to the East & West
marked point at AC180 on the access to works plan District of Breckland
Vehicular access from A47 to the East marked point at AC181 on the access to
works plan District of Breckland Vehicular access from A47 to the North marked
point at AC182 on the access to works plan District of Breckland Vehicular
access from A47 to the East & West marked point at AC183 on the access to
works plan

Land in which only New Rights etc., may be acquired

Article 20

(1) Number of land shown on land plan (2) Purpose for which rights may be
acquired Landfall Plots 01/01, 01/02, 01/03, 01/04, 01/05, 01/06, 01/07,
01/08, 01/09, 01/10, 01/11, 01/13, 01/17, 01/18, 01/19, 01/20, 02/01, 02/02,
02/03 1. The right to enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of
construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the
authorised project and to— a construct, lay and install by way of drilling and
/ or trenching and repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, remove and replace
underground electrical cables and ducts, jointing works including transition
joint bays and other apparatus together with such telemetry and fibre optic
lines, structures, ducting and other apparatus, protection and safety measures
and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity
along such electrical cables (which collectively for the purposes of this
schedule are referred to as the “ cables ”); b effect access to offshore
apparatus and carry out works for the purposes of construction, installation,
operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the parts of the authorised
project that communicate between the onshore and offshore elements of the
authorised project; c install, retain, and connect apparatus to connect
onshore transmission apparatus to offshore transmission apparatus; d enter and
be upon the land and remain with or without plant, vehicles, vessels,
machinery, apparatus and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of
transmitting electricity along the cables, or use of the cables, cable ducts
and jointing works; e retain and use the cables, cable ducts and jointing
works for the purpose of the transmission of telecommunications and
electricity; f pass and repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery for the purposes of constructing, laying down,
installing, adjusting, altering, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; g pass and repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery to access adjoining land and highway for the purposes
of laying, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining,
repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; h place and use plant, machinery and temporary
structures within the land for the installation, construction, maintenance,
repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removal and replacing of the
cables, cable ducts and jointing works; i retain and maintain existing
hardstandings and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for
the purposes of constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using
maintaining, repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and
removing the cables, cable ducts and jointing works; j retain and maintain
existing temporary permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for
public use (if applicable); k install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect,
adjust or remove pipes, cables, conduit or apparatus (including the pipes,
cables, conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers); and l alter, lop,
uproot and replant trees, shrubs and hedges and other vegetation for the
purposes of enabling the right to pass and repass. Access tracks Plots 01/14,
01/15, 01/16, 02/06, 02/07, 02/08, 02/10, 02/15, 02/17, 02/20, 03/03, 03/12,
04/04, 05/02, 05/05, 05/09, 05/11, 06/06, 06/08, 06/09, 06/11, 06/13, 07/02,
07/05, 07/07, 07/08, 07/12, 08/03, 08/04, 08/06, 08/12, 09/06, 09/09, 09/10,
09/13, 09/14, 10/07, 10/08, 10/09, 10/10, 11/02, 11/04, 11/07, 11/08, 11/11,
11/15, 12/01, 12/07, 12/09, 13/01, 13/04, 13/06, 13/07, 13/12, 14/01, 14/06,
14/11, 14/13, 14/16, 14/19, 14/22, 14/24, 15/08, 15/10, 15/12, 15/14, 16/01,
16/02, 16/04, 16/06, 16/07, 16/11, 16/14, 17/06, 18/06, 18/07, 18/09, 18/10,
18/11, 18/12, 19/01, 19/02, 19/03, 19/06, 19/08, 19/09, 20/04, 20/05, 20/08,
20/11, 20/18, 21/04, 21/05, 21/07, 21/09, 21/12, 21/13, 21/14, 21/15, 21/16,
22/02, 22/08, 22/09, 22/10, 22/11, 22/16, 23/02, 24/02, 24/03, 24/06, 24/07,
24/13, 24/14, 24/15, 24/17, 24/18, 25/01, 25/03, 25/05, 26/02, 26/04, 26/05,
26/06, 26/08, 26/10, 26/11, 26/13, 27/02, 27/04, 27/06, 27/13, 28/04, 28/05,
29/05, 29/07, 29/09, 29/10, 29/12, 30/02, 30/03, 30/04, 30/05, 30/06, 30/10,
30/11, 31/02, 31/03, 31/04, 31/05, 32/02, 32/03, 32/06, 32/09, 32/12, 32/13,
32/14, 32/15, 33/02, 33/03, 33/04, 33/12, 34/03, 34/04, 34/08, 34/09, 34/10,
34/11, 34/13, 35/11, 35/12, 36/02, 36/05, 36/06, 36/08, 36/09, 36/10, 36/11,
36/14, 36/15, 36/16, 36/17, 36/21, 37/05, 37/13, 37/14, 38/02, 38/03, 38/05,
38/06, 38/08, 38/12, 39/04, 39/05, 39/06, 39/07, 39/15, 39/16, 40/02, 40/03,
41/08, 41/10, 41/11, 41/13, 41/16, 41/22. 1. The right to enter onto and
remain on the land for the purposes of construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised project and to— a pass and
repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment, materials and machinery to
access adjoining land and highway for the purposes of laying, installing,
adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining, repairing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; b retain and maintain existing hardstandings and lay down,
use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of access to
adjoining land and highway; c retain, maintain and use temporary supporting or
protective structures and erect temporary supporting or protective structures
(including the bridging over or protection of the apparatus of the statutory
undertakers) for the purposes of access to adjoining land and highway; d
alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and hedges and other vegetation
for the purposes of enabling the right to pass and repass to and from
adjoining land; e retain and maintain existing temporary permissive paths and
lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if applicable); f effect
access and egress to and from the highway; g retain, maintain, straighten,
widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes
of accessing adjoining land and highway; h remove fences, hedges or other
barriers during any period in which construction, maintenance, upgrading,
improvement, renewal or removal works are being carried out and for the
exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior erection of
any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and the
replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the end of each period of the exercise of the rights); and i
construct, install, use, retain, maintain, inspect, modify, improve, adjust,
repair, replace, extend, test, cleanse and remove temporary or permanent
drainage and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourses and culverts. “
adjoining land ” for the purposes of this paragraph 1 means such other parts
of the land within the Order limits required for the authorised project. Full
cable rights Plots 01/12, 02/04, 02/05, 02/09, 02/12, 02/14, 02/18, 02/21,
02/22, 02/23, 03/01, 03/02, 03/04, 03/05, 03/07, 03/08, 03/11, 03/13, 04/01,
04/02, 04/03, 04/05, 04/08, 04/10, 04/12, 05/01, 05/04, 05/06, 05/08, 05/10,
06/01, 06/03, 06/05, 06/14, 07/01, 07/04, 07/06, 07/10, 08/02, 08/08, 08/13,
08/17, 08/20, 08/23, 09/03, 09/07, 09/08, 09/12, 09/16, 10/02, 10/05, 10/14,
10/16, 10/17, 11/01, 11/05, 11/06, 11/09, 11/12, 11/14, 12/02, 12/04, 12/06,
13/02, 13/08, 13/10, 13/11, 13/13, 14/02, 14/05, 14/07, 14/09, 14/15, 14/20,
14/27, 15/02, 15/05, 15/07, 15/13, 15/15, 16/03, 16/08, 16/09, 16/10, 16/13,
17/01, 17/02, 17/03, 17/04, 17/07, 18/01, 18/04, 18/05, 18/08, 18/13, 18/14,
19/04, 19/07, 20/01, 20/03, 20/07, 20/10, 20/17, 20/20, 21/01, 21/08, 22/01,
22/04, 22/06, 22/07, 22/12, 22/13, 22/14, 22/15, 23/01, 23/05, 23/06, 23/08,
23/09, 23/11, 23/13, 23/14, 24/01, 24/04, 24/08, 24/11, 24/19, 25/02, 25/06,
25/07, 26/01, 26/03, 26/07, 26/09, 26/14, 26/15, 27/01, 27/07, 27/09, 27/11,
27/15, 27/16, 28/01, 28/03, 29/02, 29/08, 29/13, 30/01, 30/07, 30/08, 30/12,
31/01, 31/07, 31/09, 31/11, 31/13, 32/01, 32/05, 32/07, 32/08, 32/11, 33/01,
33/08, 33/14, 33/16, 34/01, 34/07, 35/01, 35/04, 35/05, 35/07, 35/16, 36/01,
36/04, 36/07, 36/12, 36/13, 36/18, 36/20, 37/09, 37/16, 37/18, 37/22, 38/01,
38/04, 38/09, 38/11, 39/01, 39/02, 39/09, 39/10, 39/12, 39/13, 40/01, 40/04,
40/11, 40/12, 40/14, 40/20, 40/23, 41/03, 41/14, 41/15 1. The right to enter
onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction, installation,
operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised project and to— a
construct, lay and install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace,
renew, upgrade, inspect and remove the cables by way of drilling and / or
trenching; b construct, install, use, retain, maintain, inspect, modify,
improve, adjust, repair, extend, test, cleanse, and remove temporary or
permanent drainage and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourse and
culverts; c pass and repass, with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery for the purposes of constructing, laying, installing,
adjusting, altering, using, maintaining, repairing, replacing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables, cable ducts and jointing works;
d retain and maintain existing hardstandings and lay down, use, repair, alter
and remove hardstandings for the purposes of constructing, laying, installing,
adjusting, altering, using maintaining, repairing, replacing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables, cable ducts and jointing works;
e enter and be upon the land and remain with or without plant, vehicles,
machinery, apparatus and equipment which is ancillary to the purposes of
transmitting electricity and telecommunications along the cables, or use of
the cable ducts and jointing works; f retain and use the cables for the
purposes of the transmission of telecommunications and electricity; g place
and use plant, machinery and temporary structures within the land for the
installation, construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing, upgrading,
inspecting, removal and replacing of the cables, cable ducts and jointing
works; h install and maintain cable marker posts to identify the location of
the cables, cable ducts and jointing works as required for routine integrity
testing; i remove, store and stockpile materials (including excavated
material) within the Order land; j remove fences, hedges or other barriers
during any period in which construction, maintenance, upgrading, improvement,
renewal or removal are being carried out and for the exercise of the power to
access the cables (subject to the prior erection of any temporary stock proof
fencing as is reasonably required and the replacement or re-instatement of the
fences, hedges or other barriers following the end of each period of the
exercise of the rights); k install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust
or remove pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus (including the pipes, cables,
conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers); l carry out works to lop,
fell, cut or coppice trees or remove roots of trees or hedges or shrubs; m
retain and maintain existing temporary permissive paths or lay out temporary
permissive paths for public use (if applicable); n remove archaeological
artefacts where they would prevent or cause it to be materially more difficult
or expensive to construct, lay, install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair,
replace, renew, upgrade, inspect or remove the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; o carry out environmental mitigation, remediation and
enhancement works; p install, construct, use and remove temporary welfare
facilities during any periods of construction, maintenance, repair,
replacement, renewal, upgrade and removal of the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; q when the cables are temporarily unusable, to lay down,
install, use, maintain and inspect on the surface of the land electric lines,
telecommunications, ancillary equipment and associated works and other
conducting media together with conduits or pipes for containing the same in
and under the land; and r place temporarily and use plant, machinery and
structures on the land in connection with the lighting of the land and the
authorised project. 2. The right to enter and remain on the land for the
purposes of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised project, and to— a enter upon the land and
to create temporary secure areas; b place equipment on the land, including
portakabins and welfare equipment; c store plant, materials and equipment; d
create car parking sites, site offices, site areas for temporary security and
welfare facilities; e effect access and egress to and from the highway; f
create fuel storage and bunded facilities for the storage of materials
ancillary to the implementation of the authorised project; and g access the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works and any other
land used or to be used in connection with the installation and use of the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works, over the
temporary secure area within the land, for purposes in connection with the
installation and use of the underground electrical cables. 3. The right to
enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
project and to— a pass and repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery to access adjoining land and highway for the purposes
of laying, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining,
repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; b retain and maintain existing hardstandings
and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of
access to adjoining land and highway; c erect temporary supporting or
protective structures (including the bridging over or protection of the
apparatus of the statutory undertakers) for the purposes of access to
adjoining land and highway; d alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and
hedges and other vegetation for the purposes of enabling the right to pass and
repass to and from adjoining land; e retain and maintain existing temporary
permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if
applicable); f effect access and egress to and from the highway; g retain,
maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access
routes for the purposes of accessing adjoining land and highway; h remove
fences, hedges or other barriers during any period in which construction,
maintenance, upgrading, improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out
and for the exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior
erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and
the replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the exercise of the rights); and i retain, maintain, install, use,
inspect, modify, improve, maintain, adjust, repair, replace, extend, test,
cleanse and remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage waterflows in
any drains, watercourses and culverts. “ adjoining land ” for the purposes of
this paragraph 3 means such other parts of the land within the Order limits
required for the authorised project. 4. A restrictive covenant over the land
for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to— a prevent anything to
be done in or upon the Order land or any part thereof for the purpose of the
erection of any buildings or construction or erection of works of any kind
(including the foundations, footings or other supportive structures thereto);
b prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the Order land with
concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project); c prevent mole draining or
anything to be done by way of excavation of any kind in the Order land nor any
activities which increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any
manner whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are
reasonably required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried
out by National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their
apparatus within the Order land; d prevent the planting or growing within the
Order land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage
to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project)
provided that the growing within the land of any pre-existing trees, shrubs or
underwood do not require the consent of the undertaker; and e prevent anything
to be done in or upon the Order land or any part thereof which shall or which
it is reasonably foreseeable may interfere with the exercise of the other
rights set out in this Schedule or the use of the authorised project or in any
way render the authorised project or any part thereof in breach of any statute
or regulation for the time being in force and applicable thereto. Crossings
required to be undertaken by trenchless crossing Plots 08/19, 35/13, 37/01,
37/07. 1. The right to enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of
construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the
authorised project and to— a construct, lay and install, adjust, alter, use,
maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade, inspect and remove the cables by
way of horizontal drilling or other trenchless techniques; b construct,
install, use, retain, maintain, inspect, modify, improve, adjust, repair,
extend, test, cleanse, and remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage
waterflows in any drains, watercourse and culverts; c pass and repass, with or
without vehicles, plant, equipment, materials and machinery for the purposes
of constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; d retain and maintain existing hardstandings
and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of
constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using maintaining,
repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; e enter and be upon the land and remain with
or without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment which is
ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity and telecommunications
along the cables, or use of the cable ducts and jointing works; f retain and
use the cables for the purposes of the transmission of telecommunications and
electricity; g place and use plant, machinery and temporary structures within
the land for the installation, construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting, removal and replacing of the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; h install and maintain cable marker posts to identify the
location of the cables, cable ducts and jointing works as required for routine
integrity testing; i remove, store and stockpile materials (including
excavated material) within the Order land; j remove fences, hedges or other
barriers during any period in which construction, maintenance, upgrading,
improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out and for the exercise of
the power to access the cables (subject to the prior erection of any temporary
stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and the replacement or re-
instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers following the end of each
period of the exercise of the rights); k install, alter, re-lay, maintain,
protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus (including the
pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers); l carry out
works to lop, fell, cut or coppice trees or remove roots of trees or hedges or
shrubs; m retain and maintain existing temporary permissive paths or lay out
temporary permissive paths for public use (if applicable); n remove
archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or cause it to be materially
more difficult or expensive to construct, lay, install, adjust, alter, use,
maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade, inspect or remove the cables, cable
ducts and jointing works; o carry out environmental mitigation, remediation
and enhancement works; p install, construct, use and remove temporary welfare
facilities during any periods of construction, maintenance, repair,
replacement, renewal, upgrade and removal of the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; q when the cables are temporarily unusable, to lay down,
install, use, maintain and inspect on the surface of the land electric lines,
telecommunications, ancillary equipment and associated works and other
conducting media together with conduits or pipes for containing the same in
and under the land; and r place temporarily and use plant, machinery and
structures on the land in connection with the lighting of the land and the
authorised project. 2. The right to enter and remain on the land for the
purposes of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised project, and to— a enter upon the land and
to create temporary secure areas; b place equipment on the land, including
portakabins and welfare equipment; c store plant, materials and equipment; d
create car parking sites, site offices, site areas for temporary security and
welfare facilities; e effect access and egress to and from the highway; f
create fuel storage and bunded facilities for the storage of materials
ancillary to the implementation of the authorised project; and g access the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works and any other
land used or to be used in connection with the installation and use of the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works, over the
temporary secure area within the land, for purposes in connection with the
installation and use of the underground electrical cables. 3. The right to
enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
project and to— a pass and repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery to access adjoining land and highway for the purposes
of laying, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining,
repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; b retain and maintain existing hardstandings
and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of
access to adjoining land and highway; c erect temporary supporting or
protective structures (including the bridging over or protection of the
apparatus of the statutory undertakers) for the purposes of access to
adjoining land and highway; d alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and
hedges and other vegetation for the purposes of enabling the right to pass and
repass to and from adjoining land; e retain and maintain existing temporary
permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if
applicable); f effect access and egress to and from the highway; g retain,
maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access
routes for the purposes of accessing adjoining land and highway; h remove
fences, hedges or other barriers during any period in which construction,
maintenance, upgrading, improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out
and for the exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior
erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and
the replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the exercise of the rights); and i retain, maintain, install, use,
inspect, modify, improve, maintain, adjust, repair, replace, extend, test,
cleanse and remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage waterflows in
any drains, watercourses and culverts. j “ adjoining land ” for the purposes
of this paragraph 3 means such other parts of the land within the Order limits
required for the authorised project. 4. A restrictive covenant over the land
for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to— a prevent anything to
be done in or upon the Order land or any part thereof for the purpose of the
erection of any buildings or construction or erection of works of any kind
(including the foundations, footings or other supportive structures thereto);
b prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the Order land with
concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project); c prevent mole draining or
anything to be done by way of excavation of any kind in the Order land nor any
activities which increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any
manner whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are
reasonably required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried
out by National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their
apparatus within the Order land; d prevent the planting or growing within the
Order land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage
to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project)
provided that the growing within the land of any pre-existing trees, shrubs or
underwood do not require the consent of the undertaker; and e prevent anything
to be done in or upon the Order land or any part thereof which shall or which
it is reasonably foreseeable may interfere with the exercise of the other
rights set out in this Schedule or the use of the authorised project or in any
way render the authorised project or any part thereof in breach of any statute
or regulation for the time being in force and applicable thereto. Minor
crossings inc. highway Plots 02/11, 02/13, 02/16, 02/19, 03/06, 03/09, 03/10,
04/09, 04/11, 05/03, 05/07, 06/02, 06/04, 06/10, 07/03, 07/09, 08/05, 08/07,
08/15, 08/21, 09/11, 09/15, 10/01, 10/15, 11/03, 11/10, 11/13, 12/03, 12/05,
13/05, 13/09, 14/03, 14/04, 14/12, 14/26, 15/11, 16/05, 16/12, 17/05, 18/02,
... 20/02, 20/06, 20/09, 20/19, 21/03, 22/03, 22/05, 23/03, 24/05, 24/16,
25/04, 26/12, 27/05, 27/10, 27/14, 28/02, 29/11, 30/09, 31/06, 31/08, 31/12,
32/04, 32/10, 33/09, 33/11, 33/15, 34/05, 34/06, 35/06, 35/15, 36/03, 37/11,
37/17, 37/19, 37/21, 38/07, 39/03, 41/05 1. The right to enter onto and remain
on the land for the purposes of construction, installation, operation,
maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised project and to— a construct,
lay and install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace, renew,
upgrade, inspect and remove the cables by way of drilling and / or trenching;
b retain, maintain, install, use, inspect, modify, improve, maintain, adjust,
repair, extend, test, cleanse, and remove temporary or permanent drainage and
manage waterflows in any drains, watercourse and culverts; c pass and repass,
with or without vehicles, plant, equipment, materials and machinery for the
purposes of constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using,
maintaining, repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and
removing the cables and cable ducts; d retain and maintain existing
hardstandings and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for
the purposes of constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using
maintaining, repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and
removing the cables and cable ducts; e enter and be upon the land and remain
with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment which is
ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity and telecommunications
along the cables and cable ducts; f retain and use the cables for the purposes
of the transmission of telecommunications and electricity; g place and use
plant, machinery and temporary structures within the land for the
installation, construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing, upgrading,
inspecting, removal and replacing of the cables and cable ducts; h install and
maintain cable marker posts to identify the location of the cables and cable
ducts as required for routine integrity testing; i remove store and stockpile
materials (including excavated material) within the Order land; j remove
fences, hedges or other barriers during any period in which construction,
maintenance, upgrading, improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out
and for the exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior
erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and
the replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the end of each period of the exercise of the rights); k install,
alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables, conduits or
apparatus (including the pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers); l carry out works to lop, fell, cut or coppice trees or remove
roots of trees or hedges or shrubs; m retain and maintain existing temporary
permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if
applicable); n remove archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or
cause it to be materially more difficult or expensive to construct, lay,
install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade,
inspect or remove the cables and cable ducts; o carry out environmental
mitigation, remediation and enhancement works; p install, construct, use and
remove temporary welfare facilities during any periods of maintenance, repair,
replacement, renewal, upgrade and removal of the cables and cable ducts; q
when the cables are temporarily unusable, to lay down, install, use, maintain
and inspect on the surface of the land electric lines, telecommunications,
ancillary equipment and associated works and other conducting media together
with conduits or pipes for containing the same in and under the land; and r
place temporarily and use plant, machinery and structures on the land in
connection with the lighting of the land and the authorised project. Minor
crossings inc. highway required to be undertaken by trenchless crossing Plots
08/10, 10/11, 12/10, 14/18, 19/05, 27/08, 28/08, 35/03, 35/09. 1. The right to
enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
project and to— a construct, lay and install, adjust, alter, use, maintain,
repair, replace, renew, upgrade, inspect and remove the cables by way of
horizontal drilling or other trenchless techniques; b retain, maintain,
install, use, inspect, modify, improve, maintain, adjust, repair, extend,
test, cleanse, and remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage
waterflows in any drains, watercourse and culverts; c pass and repass, with or
without vehicles, plant, equipment, materials and machinery for the purposes
of constructing, laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using, maintaining,
repairing, replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables
and cable ducts; d retain and maintain existing hardstandings and lay down,
use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of constructing,
laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using maintaining, repairing,
replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables and cable
ducts; e enter and be upon the land and remain with or without plant,
vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment which is ancillary to the
purposes of transmitting electricity and telecommunications along the cables
and cable ducts; f retain and use the cables for the purposes of the
transmission of telecommunications and electricity; g place and use plant,
machinery and temporary structures within the land for the installation,
construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removal
and replacing of the cables and cable ducts; h install and maintain cable
marker posts to identify the location of the cables and cable ducts as
required for routine integrity testing; i remove store and stockpile materials
(including excavated material) within the Order land; j remove fences, hedges
or other barriers during any period in which construction, maintenance,
upgrading, improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out and for the
exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior erection of
any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and the
replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the end of each period of the exercise of the rights); k install,
alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables, conduits or
apparatus (including the pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus of statutory
undertakers); l carry out works to lop, fell, cut or coppice trees or remove
roots of trees or hedges or shrubs; m retain and maintain existing temporary
permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if
applicable); n remove archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or
cause it to be materially more difficult or expensive to construct, lay,
install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade,
inspect or remove the cables and cable ducts; o carry out environmental
mitigation, remediation and enhancement works; p install, construct, use and
remove temporary welfare facilities during any periods of maintenance, repair,
replacement, renewal, upgrade and removal of the cables and cable ducts; q
when the cables are temporarily unusable, to lay down, install, use, maintain
and inspect on the surface of the land electric lines, telecommunications,
ancillary equipment and associated works and other conducting media together
with conduits or pipes for containing the same in and under the land; and r
place temporarily and use plant, machinery and structures on the land in
connection with the lighting of the land and the authorised project Major
crossings (railway, dual carriageway) Plots 10/04, 15/03, 15/04, 23/07, 24/10,
33/06, 37/02, 37/08, 37/20 1. The right to enter onto and remain on the land
for the purposes of construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised project and to— a construct, lay and
install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade,
inspect and remove the cables by way of horizontal drilling or other
trenchless techniques; b retain, maintain, install, use, inspect, modify,
improve, maintain, adjust, repair, extend, test, cleanse, and remove temporary
or permanent drainage and manage waterflows in any drains, watercourse and
culverts; c enter the land with or without machinery, apparatus and equipment
which is ancillary to the purposes of transmitting electricity and
telecommunications along the cables and cable ducts; d retain and use the
cables for the purposes of the transmission of telecommunications and
electricity; and e install, alter, re-lay, maintain, protect, adjust or remove
pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus (including the pipes, cables, conduits or
apparatus of statutory undertakers). Balancing pond works Plots 41/23, 41/24,
41/25 1. The right to enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of
construction, installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the
authorised project and to—- a with or without vehicles, plant and equipment to
enter the land to construct the authorised project and thereafter to use,
retain, inspect, maintain, repair, alter, renew and replace or remove the
authorised project; b with or without vehicles, plant and equipment to enter
the land to construct or modify drainage apparatus, flood works, water
attenuation works or other works, and to construct in, on, over or under the
land drains, conduits or pipes to allow existing attenuation works to
communicate with the authorised project; c with or without vehicles, plant and
equipment to enter the land to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which may
obstruct or interfere with the rights exercised by the undertaker; d with or
without vehicles, plant and equipment to enter the land to access any
adjoining land for the purposes of the authorised project; e with or without
vehicles, plant and equipment to enter the land to exercise the rights over
and across any access route; and f to carry out any activities ancillary or
incidental thereto. 2. A restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit of
the remainder of the Order land to— a prevent anything to be done in or upon
the Order land or any part thereof for the purpose of the erection of any
buildings or construction or erection of works of any kind (including the
foundations, footings or other supportive structures thereto); b prevent
anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the Order land with concrete
of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without the
consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project); c prevent mole draining or
anything to be done by way of excavation of any kind in the Order land nor any
activities which increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any
manner whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are
reasonably required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried
out by National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their
apparatus within the Order land; d prevent the planting or growing within the
Order land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage
to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project)
provided that the growing within the land of any pre-existing trees, shrubs or
underwood do not require the consent of the undertaker; and e prevent anything
to be done in or upon the Order land or any part thereof which shall or which
it is reasonably foreseeable may interfere with the exercise of the other
rights set out in this Schedule or the use of the authorised project or in any
way render the authorised project or any part thereof in breach of any statute
or regulation for the time being in force and applicable thereto. Connection
into cable sealing ends 41/33 1. The right to enter onto and remain on the
land for the purposes of construction, installation, operation, maintenance
and decommissioning of the authorised project and to— a construct, lay and
install, adjust, alter, use, maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade,
inspect and remove the cables by way of drilling and / or trenching or by over
ground construction; b construct, lay and install, adjust, alter, use,
maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade, inspect and remove any apparatus
necessary to connect the cables into cable sealing ends and to facilitate the
connection to electrical apparatus; c construct, install, use, retain,
maintain, inspect, modify, improve, adjust, repair, extend, test, cleanse, and
remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage waterflows in any drains,
watercourse and culverts; d pass and repass, with or without vehicles, plant,
equipment, materials and machinery for the purposes of constructing, laying,
installing, adjusting, altering, using, maintaining, repairing, replacing,
renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; e retain and maintain existing hardstandings and lay down,
use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of constructing,
laying, installing, adjusting, altering, using maintaining, repairing,
replacing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting and removing the cables, cable
ducts and jointing works; f enter and be upon the land and remain with or
without plant, vehicles, machinery, apparatus and equipment which is ancillary
to the purposes of transmitting electricity and telecommunications along the
cables, or use of the cable ducts and jointing works; g retain and use the
cables for the purposes of the transmission of telecommunications and
electricity; h place and use plant, machinery and temporary structures within
the land for the installation, construction, maintenance, repairing, renewing,
upgrading, inspecting, removal and replacing of the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; i install and maintain cable marker posts to identify the
location of the cables, cable ducts and jointing works as required for routine
integrity testing; j remove, store and stockpile materials (including
excavated material) within the Order land; k remove fences, hedges or other
barriers during any period in which construction, maintenance, upgrading,
improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out and for the exercise of
the power to access the cables (subject to the prior erection of any temporary
stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and the replacement or re-
instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers following the end of each
period of the exercise of the rights); l install, alter, re-lay, maintain,
protect, adjust or remove pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus (including the
pipes, cables, conduits or apparatus of statutory undertakers); m carry out
works to lop, fell, cut or coppice trees or remove roots of trees or hedges or
shrubs; n retain and maintain existing temporary permissive paths or lay out
temporary permissive paths for public use (if applicable); o remove
archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or cause it to be materially
more difficult or expensive to construct, lay, install, adjust, alter, use,
maintain, repair, replace, renew, upgrade, inspect or remove the cables, cable
ducts and jointing works; p carry out environmental mitigation, remediation
and enhancement works; q install, construct, use and remove temporary welfare
facilities during any periods of construction, maintenance, repair,
replacement, renewal, upgrade and removal of the cables, cable ducts and
jointing works; r when the cables are temporarily unusable, to lay down,
install, use, maintain and inspect on the surface of the land electric lines,
telecommunications, ancillary equipment and associated works and other
conducting media together with conduits or pipes for containing the same in
and under the land; and s place temporarily and use plant, machinery and
structures on the land in connection with the lighting of the land and the
authorised project. 2. The right to enter and remain on the land for the
purposes of the construction, installation, operation, maintenance and
decommissioning of the authorised project, and to— a enter upon the land and
to create temporary secure areas; b place equipment on the land, including
portakabins and welfare equipment; c store plant, materials and equipment; d
create car parking sites, site offices, site areas for temporary security and
welfare facilities; e effect access and egress to and from the highway; f
create fuel storage and bunded facilities for the storage of materials
ancillary to the implementation of the authorised project; and g access the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works and any other
land used or to be used in connection with the installation and use of the
underground electrical cables, cable ducts and jointing works, over the
temporary secure area within the land, for purposes in connection with the
installation and use of the underground electrical cables. 3. The right to
enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
project and to— a pass and repass with or without vehicles, plant, equipment,
materials and machinery to access adjoining land and highway for the purposes
of laying, installing, adjusting, altering, constructing, using, maintaining,
repairing, renewing, upgrading, inspecting, removing and replacing the cables,
cable ducts and jointing works; b retain and maintain existing hardstandings
and lay down, use, repair, alter and remove hardstandings for the purposes of
access to adjoining land and highway; c erect temporary supporting or
protective structures (including the bridging over or protection of the
apparatus of the statutory undertakers) for the purposes of access to
adjoining land and highway; d alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and
hedges and other vegetation for the purposes of enabling the right to pass and
repass to and from adjoining land; e retain and maintain existing temporary
permissive paths or lay out temporary permissive paths for public use (if
applicable); f effect access and egress to and from the highway; g retain,
maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access
routes for the purposes of accessing adjoining land and highway; h remove
fences, hedges or other barriers during any period in which construction,
maintenance, upgrading, improvement, renewal or removal are being carried out
and for the exercise of the power to access the cables (subject to the prior
erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required and
the replacement or re-instatement of the fences, hedges or other barriers
following the exercise of the rights); and i retain, maintain, install, use,
inspect, modify, improve, maintain, adjust, repair, replace, extend, test,
cleanse and remove temporary or permanent drainage and manage waterflows in
any drains, watercourses and culverts. “ adjoining land ” for the purposes of
this paragraph 3 means such other parts of the land within the Order limits
required for the authorised project. Overhead line alterations 40/26, 40/27,
40/31, 40/33a, 41/01a, 41/28, 41/30b, 41/30c, 41/30d, 41/40 1. The right to
enter onto and remain on the land for the purposes of construction,
installation, operation, maintenance and decommissioning of the authorised
project and— a to enter the land with or without vehicles plant and equipment
to erect the electric lines and thereafter retain, inspect, maintain, repair,
alter, renew, replace and remove the overhead lines; b with or without
vehicles, plant and equipment and in a proper and woodman like manner to fell,
trim or lop all trees and bushes on the land which obstruct or interfere with
the exercise of the undertaker’s rights; c enter the land to access any
adjoining land; d to use the overhead lines. 2. A restrictive covenant over
the land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land to— a not do or
suffer to be done anything upon the land which may in any way interfere with,
damage or cause injury to the overhead lines or interfere with or obstruct
access thereto or use thereof, and to take all reasonable precautions to
prevent such interference, obstruction, damage or injury; b not erect any
building or structure (whether temporary or permanent) or plant or allow to
grow any plant or tree on the land within 5.3 metres of any conductors when
they are at a maximum temperature and/or swing; c not erect any building or
structure (whether temporary or permanent) or plant or allow any plant or tree
within or under any towers or within 5 metres of the outer edge of each of the
foundations of any towers without the written consent of the undertaker (such
consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed and which consent may be
granted subject to reasonable conditions); d not store or place within or
under any towers or within 5 metres of the outer edge of the foundations of
any towers any goods or materials whatsoever without the written consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed and
which consent may be granted subject to reasonable conditions); e not raise
the level of the surface of the land so as to make the distance between the
level of the ground and the lowest conductor at any point of the span less
than 7.6 metres; and f not carry out any works or excavations on the land or
otherwise which may endanger the stability, safety and integrity of the
overhead lines.

  Modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights

Article 20

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply as respects compensation on the compulsory
purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act
1973  has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 of the 1965 Act as
substituted by paragraph 4—

2.2.a

for the words “land is acquired or taken” there is substituted the words  “a
right or restrictive covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

2.2.b

for the words “acquired or taken from him” there is substituted the words
“over which the right is exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable”
.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

3.2.5A

If—

3.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) (powers of entry) of the
1965 Act (as modified by paragraph 8 of Schedule 7 to the Norfolk Vanguard
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022);

3.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 6 of Schedule 7
to the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022) to acquire an interest
in the land; and

3.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land where it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

4

4.1

The 1965 Act has effect with the modifications necessary to make it apply to
the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a
new right, or to the imposition under this Order of a restrictive covenant, as
it applies to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of land, so that, in
appropriate contexts, references in that Act to land are read (according to
the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including
references to—

4.1.a

the right acquired or to be acquired or the restriction imposed or to be
imposed; or

4.1.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is to be enforceable.

4.2

Without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (1), Part 1 of the 1965
Act applies in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a
right by the creation of a new right or, in relation to the imposition of a
restrictive, with the modifications specified in the following provisions of
this Schedule.

5

For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation in case of severance)
there is substituted the following section—

5.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act

.

6

Section 8(1) of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 has effect as if references
to acquiring land were to acquiring a right in the land, and Schedule 2A to
that Act is to be read as if, for that Schedule, there were substituted—

########### Counter-Notice Requiring Purchase of Land

Introduction   1       1    This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority
serves a notice to treat in respect of a right over the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act as applied by
article 22 (application of the 1981 Act) of the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind
Farm Order 2022 in respect of land to which the notice to treat relates.
2   But see article 24(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the
Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022, which excludes acquisition of
subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.             2     In this
Schedule “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

########### Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

6.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the undertaker to purchase the owner’s
interest in the house, building or factory.

6.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

########### Response to counter-notice

6.5

On receiving a counter-notice the undertaker must decide whether to—

6.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

6.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

6.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

6.6

The undertaker must serve notice of their decision on the owner within the
period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is
served (“the decision period”).

6.7

If the undertaker decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal
they must do so within the decision period.

6.8

If the undertaker does not serve notice of a decision within the decision
period they are to be treated as if they had served notice of a decision to
withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

6.9

If the undertaker serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice,
the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

########### Determination by Upper Tribunal

6.10

On a referral under paragraph 7 the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right would—

6.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

6.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

6.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

6.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right,

6.11.b

the proposed use of the right, and

6.11.c

if the right is proposed to be acquired for works or other purposes extending
to other land, the effect of the whole of the works and the use of the other
land.

6.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right would have
either of the consequences described in paragraph 10 it must determine how
much of the house, building or factory the authority ought to be required to
take.

6.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

6.14

6.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the authority may at any
time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the Upper
Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to treat in relation to
that land.

6.14.2

If the undertaker withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph they must
pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss or
expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

6.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

7

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

7.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

7.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

7.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

7.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

8

Section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) is so modified as to secure that,
as from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat
in respect of any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of
entry required by subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory
acquisition under article 18), it has power, exercisable in equivalent
circumstances and subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose
of exercising that right or enforcing that restrictive covenant (which is
deemed for this purpose to have been created on the date of service of the
notice); and sections 11A (powers of entry: further notices of entry), 11B
(counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified date), 12
(unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

9

Section 20 of the 1965 Act (tenants at will, etc.) applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

10

Section 22 of the 1965 Act (interests omitted from purchase) is so modified as
to enable the acquiring authority, in circumstances corresponding to those
referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled to exercise the right
acquired, subject to compliance with that section as respects compensation.

  Land of which temporary possession may be taken

Article 26

      (1) Area (2) Number of land shown on land plan (3) Purpose for which
temporary possession may be taken (4) Part of the authorised project
District of North Norfolk 01/07, 01/08, 01/09, 01/10, 01/11, 02/01, 02/02
Facilitating construction and carrying out the authorised project;
construction compounds for carrying out the authorised project; access for
carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 4B, 4C and 5 District of North
Norfolk 01/01, 01/02, 01/03, 01/04, 01/05, 01/06, 01/13, 01/17, 01/18, 01/19,
01/20, 02/03, 01/12, 02/04, 02/05, 02/09, 02/11, 02/12, 02/13, 02/14, 02/16,
02/18, 02/19, 02/21, 02/22, 02/23, 03/01, 03/02, 03/04, 03/05, 03/06, 03/07,
03/08, 03/09, 03/10, 03/11, 03/13, 04/01, 04/02, 04/03, 04/05, 04/08, 04/09,
04/10, 04/11, 04/12, 05/01, 05/03, 05/04, 05/06, 05/07, 05/08, 05/10, 06/01,
06/02, 06/03, 06/04, 06/05, 06/10, 06/14, 07/01, 07/03, 07/04, 07/06, 07/09,
07/10, 08/02, 08/05, 08/07, 08/08, 08/10, 08/13, 08/15, 08/17, 08/19, 08/20,
08/21, 08/23, 09/03, 09/07, 09/08, 09/11, 09/12, 09/15, 09/16, 10/01, 10/02,
10/04, 10/05, 10/11, 10/14, 10/15, 10/16, 10/17, 11/01, 11/03, 11/05, 11/06,
11/09, 11/10, 11/12, 11/13, 11/14, 12/02, 12/03, 12/04, 12/05, 12/06, 12/10,
13/02, 13/05, 13/08, 13/09, 13/10, 13/11, 13/13, 14/02, 14/03, 14/04, 14/05
Facilitating construction and carrying out the authorised project; carrying
out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised project.
Work Nos. 4A, 4B, 4C and 5 District of North Norfolk 01/14, 01/15, 01/16,
02/06, 02/07, 02/08, 02/10, 02/15, 02/17, 02/20, 03/03, 03/12, 04/04, 05/02,
05/05, 05/09, 05/11, 06/06, 06/08, 06/09, 06/11, 06/13, 07/02, 07/05, 07/07,
07/08, 07/12, 08/03, 08/04, 08/06, 08/12, 09/06, 09/09, 09/10, 09/13, 09/14,
10/07, 10/08, 10/09, 10/10, 11/02, 11/04, 11/07, 11/08, 11/11, 11/15, 12/01,
12/07, 12/09, 13/01, 13/04, 13/06, 13/07, 13/12, 14/01, 14/06 Laying of
hardstanding and improvements to tracks; access for carrying out the
authorised project. Work Nos. 4B, 4C, 5 and 6 District of North Norfolk 04/06,
04/07, 09/04, 09/05, 10/12 Facilitating construction and carrying out Work No.
5; mobilisation zone for construction and laydown and carrying out the
authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos.
4C and 5 District of North Norfolk 06/07, 07/11, 08/01, 08/07, 08/09, 08/11,
08/14, 08/16, 08/18, 08/22, 08/24, 09/01, 09/02, 10/03, 10/06, 10/13, 12/08,
12/11, 13/03 Facilitating construction and carrying out Work No. 5; trenchless
crossing zone for construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work No. 5 District
of North Norfolk 06/12 Facilitating construction and carrying out Work No. 5;
mobilisation zone and trenchless crossing zone for construction and laydown
and carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the
authorised project. Work No. 5 Districts of North Norfolk and Broadland 14/07
Facilitating construction and carrying out the authorised project; carrying
out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised project.
Work Nos. 5 and 6 Districts of North Norfolk and Broadland 14/08 Facilitating
construction and carrying out Work Nos. 5 and 6; trenchless crossing zone for
construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised project; access for
carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 5 and 6 District of Broadland
14/09, 14/12, 14/15, 14/18, 14/20, 14/26, 14/27, 15/02, 15/03, 15/04, 15/05,
15/07, 15/11, 15/13, 15/15, 16/03, 16/05, 16/08, 16/09, 16/10, 16/12, 16/13,
17/01, 17/02, 17/03, 17/04, 17/05, 17/07, 18/01, 18/02, 18/04, 18/05, 18/08,
18/13, 18/14, 19/04,, 19/07, 20/01, 20/02, 20/03, 20/06, 20/07, 20/09, 20/10,
20/17, 20/19, 20/20, 21/01, 21/03, 21/08, 22/01, 22/03, 22/04, 22/05, 22/06,
22/07, 22/12, 22/13, 22/14, 22/15, 23/01, 23/03, 23/05, 23/06, 23/07, 23/08,
23/09, 23/11, 23/13, 23/14, 24/01, 24/04, 24/05, 24/08, 24/10, 24/11, 24/16,
24/19, 25/02, 25/04, 25/06, 25/07, 26/01 Facilitating construction and
carrying out the authorised project; carrying out the authorised project;
access for carrying out the authorised project. Work No. 6 District of
Broadland 14/10, 14/21, 14/23, 14/25, 14/28, 15/01, 15/06, 15/09, 21/10,
21/11, 21/17, 23/04, 23/10, 23/12, 24/09, 24/12 Facilitating construction and
carrying out Work No. 6; trenchless crossing zone for construction and laydown
and carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the
authorised project. Work No. 6 District of Broadland 14/11, 14/13, 14/16,
14/19, 14/22, 14/24, 15/08, 15/10, 15/12, 15/14, 16/01, 16/02, 16/04, 16/06,
16/07, 16/11, 16/14, 17/06, 18/06, 18/07, 18/09, 18/10, 18/11, 18/12, 19/01,
19/02, 19/03, 19/06, 19/08, 19/09, 20/04, 20/05, 20/08, 20/11, 20/12, 20/13,
20/14, 20/15, 20/16, 20/18, 21/04, 21/05, 21/07, 21/09, 21/12, 21/13, 21/14,
21/15, 21/16, 22/02, 22/08, 22/09, 22/10, 22/11, 22/16, 23/02, 24/02, 24/03,
24/06, 24/07, 24/13, 24/14, 24/15, 24/17, 24/18, 25/01, 25/03, 25/05, 26/02,
26/04 Laying of hardstanding and improvements to tracks; access for carrying
out the authorised project. Work Nos. 5, 6 and 7 District of Broadland 14/14,
19/05 Facilitating construction and carrying out Work No. 6; mobilisation zone
and trenchless crossing zone for construction, laydown, and carrying out the
authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work No. 6
District of Broadland 18/03, 20/21, 21/02, 21/06 Facilitating construction and
carrying out Work No. 6; mobilisation zone for construction and laydown and
carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised
project. Work No. 6 District of Broadland 18/15, 18/16 Temporary storage site;
worksites for construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 5, 6, 7
Districts of Broadland and Breckland 26/03 Facilitating construction and
carrying out the authorised project; carrying out the authorised project;
access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 6 and 7. District of
Breckland 26/05, 26/06, 26/08, 26/10, 26/11, 26/13, 27/02, 27/04, 27/06,
27/13, 28/04, 28/05, 29/05, 29/07, 29/09, 29/10, 29/12, 30/02, 30/03, 30/04,
30/05, 30/06, 30/10, 30/11, 31/02, 31/03, 31/04, 31/05, 32/02, 32/03, 32/06,
32/09, 32/12, 32/13, 32/14, 32/15, 33/02, 33/03, 33/04, 33/12, 34/03, 34/04,
34/08, 34/09, 34/10, 34/11, 34/13, 35/11, 35/12, 36/02, 36/05, 36/06, 36/08,
36/09, 36/10, 36/11, 36/14, 36/15, 36/16, 36/17, 36/21, 37/05, 37/13, 37/14,
38/02, 38/03, 38/05, 38/06, 38/08, 41/08, 41/10, 41/11, 41/13, 41/16, 41/22,
39/07, 40/02, 40/03 Laying of hardstanding and improvements to tracks; access
for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 6, 7 District of Breckland
26/07, 26/09, 26/12, 26/14, 26/15, 27/01, 27/05, 27/07, 27/08, 27/09, 27/10,
27/11, 27/14, 27/15, 27/16, 28/01, 28/02, 28/03, 28/08, 29/02, 29/08, 29/11,
29/13, 30/01, 30/07, 30/08, 30/09, 30/12, 31/01, 31/06, 31/07, 31/08, 31/09,
31/11, 31/12, 31/13, 32/01, 32/04, 32/05, 32/07, 32/08, 32/10, 32/11, 33/01,
33/06, 33/08, 33/09, 33/11, 33/14, 33/15, 33/16, 34/01, 34/05, 34/06, 34/07,
35/01, 35/03, 35/04, 35/05, 35/06, 35/07, 35/09, 35/13, 35/15, 35/16, 36/01,
36/03, 36/04, 36/07, 36/12, 36/13, 36/18, 36/20, 37/01, 37/02, 37/07, 37/08,
37/09, 37/11, 37/16, 37/17, 37/18, 37/19, 37/20, 37/21, 37/22, 38/01, 38/04,
38/07, 38/09, 39/10, 40/11, 40/14, 40/20, 40/23, 41/03, 41/14, 41/15, 38/11,
38/12, 39/01, 39/02, 39/03, 39/04, 39/05, 39/06, 39/09, 39/12, 39/13, 39/15,
39/16, 40/01, 40/04, 40/12, 41/05 Facilitating construction and carrying out
the authorised project; carrying out the authorised project; access for
carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 7 District of Breckland 27/03,
27/12, 31/10, 33/17, 34/02, 37/04, 37/12, 37/15 Facilitating construction and
carrying out Work Nos. 7; mobilisation zone for construction and laydown and
carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised
project. Work Nos. 7 District of Breckland 27/08, 28/06, 28/07, 28/09, 28/10,
29/01, 29/03, 29/04, 29/06, 33/05, 33/07, 33/09, 33/10, 33/13, 34/12, 35/02,
35/08, 35/10, 35/14, 36/19, 37/10 Facilitating construction and carrying out
Work Nos. 7; trenchless crossing zone for construction and laydown and
carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised
project. Work Nos. 7 District of Breckland 37/03, 37/06 Facilitating
construction and carrying out Work Nos. 7; mobilisation zone and trenchless
crossing zone for construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 7 District
of Breckland 40/16 Construction compound; worksites for construction and
laydown and carrying out the authorised project; access for carrying out the
authorised project. Work Nos. 7, 8A, 8B, 9 and 12 District of Breckland 40/26,
40/26a 40/27, 40/27a, 40/28, 40/31, 40/31a, 40/32, 40/33, 40/33a, 40/33b,
41/01, 41/01a, 41/01b, 41/07, 41/09, 41/17, 41/18, 41/27, 41/28, 41/30,
41/30b, 41/30c, 41/30d, 41/30e, 41/30f, 41/39, 41/40, 41/40a, 41/41, 41/42,
41/43, 41/44, 41/45, 41/46, 41/47, 41/48, 42/04 Facilitating construction and
carrying out the authorised project and works to the National Grid overhead
lines; worksites for construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 7, 8A, 8B,
9, 10A, 10B, 10C, 11, 11A and 12 District of Breckland 41/07, 41/09, 41/17,
41/18 Construction compound and carrying out the authorised project; worksites
for construction and laydown and carrying out the authorised project; access
for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 9, 10A, 10B, 10C, 11 and 12
District of Breckland 41/12, 42/05, 42/06 Facilitation construction and
carrying out Work No. 12; worksites for construction and laydown and carrying
out the authorised project; access for carrying out the authorised project.
Work Nos. 10C and 12 District of Breckland 41/23, 41/24, 41/25 Facilitating
construction and carrying out Work No. 10B; carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 8B, 9, 10A,
10B, 10C, 11, 11A and 12 District of Breckland 41/33 Facilitating construction
and carrying out Work No. 11 and Work No. 11A; carrying out the authorised
project; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work No. 11, and Work
No. 11A District of Breckland 42/02, 42/03 Facilitating construction and
carrying out Work No. 12; worksites for construction and laydown and carrying
out the authorised project; park and ride offload area for substation
construction; access for carrying out the authorised project. Work Nos. 8A,
8B, 9 and 12

Deemed Licence under the 2009 Act – Generation Assets (Licence 1 – Phase 1)

Article 32

##### Interpretation

1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009; “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore Marine
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ accommodation platform ” means a
fixed structure providing offshore accommodation for personnel “ authorised
deposits ” means the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of Part
2 of this licence; “ authorised scheme ” means Work No. 1 described in Part 3
of this licence or any part of that work; “ cable protection ” means measures
for offshore cable crossings and where cable burial is not possible due to
ground conditions or approaching offshore structures, to protect cables and
fibre optic cables and prevent loss of seabed sediment by use of grout bags,
protective aprons, mattresses, flow energy dissipation (frond) devices or rock
and gravel dumping; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any part of
the licensed activities save for pre-construction surveys and monitoring and “
commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed accordingly; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 4 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ Development Principles ”
means the document certified as the Development Principles by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order; “ draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ draught height ”
means the distance between the lowest point of the rotating blade of the wind
turbine generator and MHWS; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised
to carry out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of Part 4 (marine licensing)
of the 2009 Act; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as
the environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order; “ gravity base system ” means a structure principally of steel,
concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on the seabed either due to its
own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and associated
equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion
protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access systems,
access ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “ HAT ” means
highest astronomical tide; “ in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea
Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan ” means the document
certified as the in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea Special area
of Conservation Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this Order; “ jacket foundation ” means a steel jacket/ lattice-type
structure constructed of steel which is fixed to the seabed at three or more
points with steel pin piles or steel suction caissons and associated equipment
including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion protection
systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access systems, access
ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “ Kingfisher
Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the bulletin published by the Humber Seafood
Institute or such other alternative publication approved in writing by the MMO
for the purposes of this licence; “ licence 2 (generation) ” means the licence
set out in Schedule 10 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act – generation assets
(licence 2 – phase 2)); “ licensed activities ” means the activities specified
in Part 3 of this licence; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair,
adjust, and alter and further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but
only in relation to any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1
(ancillary works), any cable, and any component part of any wind turbine
generator, offshore electrical substation, accommodation platform or
meteorological mast described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development)
not including the alteration, removal or replacement of foundations), to the
extent assessed in the environmental statement; and “maintenance” is construed
accordingly; “Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the body
created under the 2009 Act which is responsible for the monitoring and
enforcement of this licence; “ marker buoy ” means any floating device used
for marker or navigation purposes, including LIDAR buoys and wave buoys; “ MCA
” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency; “mean high water springs” or “
MHWS ” means the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a
period of time; “ measurement buoy ” means any floating device used for
measurement purposes, including LIDAR buoys and wave buoys; “ meteorological
mast ” means a mast housing equipment to measure wind speed and other wind
characteristics, including a topside housing electrical, communication and
associated equipment and marking and lighting; “ monopile foundation ” means a
steel pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or drilled into the seabed and
associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece,
corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access
systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “
Norfolk Vanguard East ” means the eastern area located in the offshore Order
limits within which wind turbine generators will be situated; “ Norfolk
Vanguard West ” means the western area located in the offshore Order limits
within which wind turbine generators will be situated; “ notice to mariners ”
means a notice issued by the undertaker to mariners to inform them of issues
that affect the safety of navigation; “ offshore cables ” means any cables
offshore; “ offshore in principle monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the offshore in principle monitoring plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order; “ offshore Order limits ” means the
limits shown on the works plan within which the authorised scheme may be
carried out, whose grid coordinates are set out in Part 2 of this licence; “
the Order ” means the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “
outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan ” means the document certified
as the outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline marine traffic monitoring
strategy ” means the document certified as the outline marine traffic
monitoring strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ outline offshore operations and maintenance plan ” means the document
certified as the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline written scheme of
investigation (offshore) ” means the document certified as the outline written
scheme of investigation (offshore) by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this Order; “ pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or
drilled into the seabed to secure steel jacket foundations; “ relevant site ”
means a European offshore marine site or a European site as defined in the
2017 Regulations; “ scour protection ” means measures to prevent loss of
seabed sediment around any marine structure placed in or on the seabed by use
of protective aprons, mattresses with or without frond devices, or rock and
gravel placement. “ single offshore phase ” means carrying out all offshore
works as a single construction operation; “ statutory historic body ” means
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England (Historic England) or
its successor in function; “ statutory nature conservation body ” means an
organisation charged by government with advising on nature conservation
matters; “ suction caisson ” means a large diameter steel cylindrical shell
which penetrates the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential
for fixity of foundations; “ Trinity House ” means the Corporation of Trinity
House of Deptford Strond; “ two offshore phases ” means carrying out the
offshore works as two separate construction operations; “ UK Hydrographic
Office ” means the UK Hydrographic Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset,
TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means Norfolk Vanguard Limited (Company No. 08141115)
whose registered office is at 5th Floor, 70 St Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE; “
vessel ” means every description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and
includes a non-displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the
surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious
vehicle and any other thing constructed or adapted for movement through, in,
on or over water and which is at the time in, on or over water; “ wind turbine
generator ” means a structure comprising a tower, rotor with up to three
blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical and other
equipment which may include corrosion protection systems, helicopter landing
facilities and other associated equipment, fixed to a foundation; and “ works
plan ” means the plan certified as the works plan by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of the Order.

2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

3

Unless otherwise indicated—

3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT); and

3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary points of contact with the organisations listed below and the
addresses for returns and correspondence are—

4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Lowestoft Office

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 573 149;

4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

4.f

Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 562 244;

4.g

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

4.h

Historic England

Cannon Bridge

House 25

Dowgate Hill

London

EC4R 2YA

Tel: 020 7973 3700

##### Licensed Marine Activities – General

1

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108 (reviews
and revisions of decommissioning programmes), and the completion of such
programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in writing.

2

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article 6 (benefit of the Order).

3

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

4

Any amendments to or variations from the approved plans, protocols or
statements must be minor or immaterial and it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the MMO that they are unlikely to give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

5

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

5.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

5.b

stone and rock;

5.c

concrete;

5.d

sand and gravel;

5.e

plastic and synthetic;

5.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre
optic cable) sandwave preparation works; and

5.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

6

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) 1
52° 55′ 0.308″ N 3° 4′ 42.589″ E 6 53° 2′ 36.817″ N 2° 34′ 16.309″ E 2 52° 49′
53.975″ N 3° 5′ 22.789″ E 7 52° 49′ 38.834″ N 2° 34′ 15.809″ E 3 52° 46′
19.050″ N 3° 2′ 16.682″ E 8 52° 48′ 47.472″ N 2° 33′ 28.343″ E 4 52° 45′
10.584″ N 2° 45′ 33.989″ E 9 52° 48′ 3.133″ N 2° 26′ 37.427″ E 5 52° 51′
41.636″ N 2° 45′ 34.220″ E 10 52° 56′ 9.089″ N 2° 18′ 33.231″ E

##### Details of Licensed Marine Activities

1

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 4, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

1.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of
Part 2 of this licence;

1.b

the construction of works in or over the sea and/or on or under the sea bed;

1.c

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

1.d

the disposal of up to 37,736,390m 3  of inert material of natural origin
within the offshore Order limits produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre optic
cable) sandwave preparation works at disposal site references HU215 and HU216
within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS, comprising—

1.d.i

36,000,000 m 3  for cable and fibre optic cable installation;

1.d.ii

1,648,824 m 3  for the wind turbine generators;

1.d.iii

75,000 m 3  for the accommodation platform; and

1.d.iv

12,566 m 3  for the meteorological masts;

1.e

the removal of static fishing equipment; and

1.f

the disposal of drill arisings in connection with any foundation drilling up
to 400,624 m 3

2

2.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of Work No. 1 (phase 1)—

2.1.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with an electrical export capacity
of up to 1,800 MW at the point of connection to the offshore electrical
platform(s) referred to at Work No. 2 comprising up to 158 wind turbine
generators each fixed to the seabed by one of the following foundation types:
monopile (piled or suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson), or
gravity base fitted with rotating blades and situated within the area shown on
the works plan and further comprising (b) to (e) below;

2.1.b

up to two accommodation platforms fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: jacket (piled or
suction caisson) or gravity base;

2.1.c

up to two meteorological masts fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: monopile (piled or
suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson) or gravity base;

2.1.d

up to two LIDAR measurement buoys fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: monopile (piled) or
floating and up to two wave measurement buoys fixed to the seabed within the
area shown on the works plan by one foundation type (floating); and

2.1.e

a network of subsea array cables and fibre optic cables within the area shown
on the works plan between the wind turbine generators, and between the wind
turbine generators and Work No.2 including one or more offshore cable
crossings.

2.2

In connection with Work No. 1 and to the extent that they do not otherwise
form part of any such work, further associated development comprising such
other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in
connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which fall
within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement and the
provisions of this licence including:

2.2.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

2.2.b

cable protection measures such as the placement of rock and/or concrete
mattresses, with or without frond devices;

2.2.c

the removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work
No. 1 and the disposal of up to 37,736,390 cubic metres of inert material of
natural origin within the Order limits produced during construction drilling,
seabed preparation for foundation works, cable installation preparation such
as sandwave clearance, boulder clearance and pre–trenching and excavation of
horizontal directional drilling exit pits; and

2.2.d

removal of static fishing equipment;

2.3

In connection with such Work No. 1, ancillary works within the Order limits
which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment recorded in the
environmental statement comprising—

2.3.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

2.3.b

beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact protection
works.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

Subject to paragraph (2), each wind turbine generator forming part of the
authorised scheme must not—

1.1.a

exceed a height of 350 metres when measured from HAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

1.1.b

exceed a height of 198.5 metres to the height of the centreline of the
generator shaft forming part of the hub when measured from HAT;

1.1.c

exceed a rotor diameter of 303 metres;

1.1.d

be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in either
direction perpendicular to the approximate prevailing wind direction
(crosswind) or be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator
in either direction which is in line with the approximate prevailing wind
direction (downwind); or

1.1.e

have a draught height which is less than the minimum draught height specified
for the relevant wind turbine generator capacity in the table below—

Wind Turbine Generator Capacity Minimum draught height Up to and including
14.6MW 35m from MHWS 14.7MW and above 30m from MHWS

1.2

References to the location of a wind turbine generator in paragraph (1) above
are references to the centre point of that turbine.

1.3

The total number of wind turbine generators must not exceed 158 and must be
configured such that at any time—

1.3.a

no more than two-thirds of the total number of wind turbine generators
(rounded to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard
West; and

1.3.b

no more than one-half of the total number of wind turbine generators (rounded
to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard East.

2

2.1

The dimensions of any accommodation platform forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed 100 metres in height when measured from HAT, 90 metres
in length and 60 metres in width.

2.2

Each meteorological mast must not exceed a height of 200 metres above HAT.

2.3

Each meteorological mast must not have more than one supporting foundation.

3

The total length of the cables and the area and volume of their cable
protection must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection (m 2  and m 3 ) Work No. 1(e) (array) 600
kilometres 389,000m 2  198,500 m 3

4

4.1

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation using piles must not
have—

4.1.a

more than four driven piles;

4.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 15
metres; or

4.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than five metres.

4.2

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 1,963 m 2 .

5

5.1

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation using piles must not
have—

5.1.a

more than four driven piles;

5.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 10
metres; or

5.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than three metres.

5.2

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation must not have a seabed
footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 314 m 2 .

6

6.1

In relation to an accommodation platform, each foundation using piles must not
have—

6.1.a

more than six driven piles; or

6.1.b

a pile diameter which is more than three metres.

6.2

In relation to an accommodation platform, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 7,500 m 2 .

7

7.1

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation using piles must
not have a pile diameter of greater than 10 metres.

7.2

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 79m² per
buoy and 157 m 2  in total.

7.3

In relation to any wave measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 150m² per
buoy and 300 m 2  in total.

###### Phasing of the authorised scheme

8

8.1

Taken together with works authorised and proposed to be constructed pursuant
to licence 2 (generation)—

8.1.a

the total electrical export capacity of the authorised scheme must not exceed
1,800MW at the point of connection to the offshore electrical platform(s);

8.1.b

the total number of wind turbine generators forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed 158;

8.1.c

the total number of accommodation platforms forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.d

the total number of meteorological masts forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed two;

8.1.e

the total number of LIDAR measurement buoys forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.f

the total number of wave measurement buoys forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.g

the total amount of scour protection for the wind turbine generators,
accommodation platform(s), meteorological masts and measurement buoys forming
part of the authorised scheme must not exceed 5,176,703m 2  and 25,883,515 m3;

8.1.h

the total amount of inert material of natural origin disposed within the
offshore Order limits as part of the authorised scheme must not exceed
37,736,390 m 3 ;

8.1.i

the total amount of disposal for drill arisings in connection with any
foundation drilling must not exceed 400,624 m 3 ; and

8.1.j

the total length of cable and the amount of cable protection must not exceed
the figures stated in condition 3 of this licence.

8.2

Prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme the undertaker must give
notice to the MMO detailing—

8.2.a

whether the authorised scheme will be constructed—

8.2.a.i

in a single offshore phase under this licence; or

8.2.a.ii

in two offshore phases under this licence and licence 2 (generation); and

8.2.b

where the authorised scheme will be constructed in two offshore phases—

8.2.b.i

prior to the commencement of phase 1, the total number of wind turbine
generators accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, LIDAR measurement
buoys and wave measurement buoys to be constructed in that phase; and

8.2.b.ii

prior to the commencement of phase 2, the total number of wind turbine
generators accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, LIDAR measurement
buoys and wave measurement buoys to be constructed in that phase.

###### Notifications and inspections

9

9.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

9.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

9.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
17; and

9.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 17; and

9.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the MMO
confirming receipt of this licence.

9.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 17 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

9.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

9.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

9.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

9.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

9.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

9.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

9.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to the commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them,
and within five days of completion of the licensed activities.

9.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

9.7.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

9.7.b

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours of completion of
construction of all offshore activities,

and confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

9.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least ten days prior to the
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them advising of the
start date of Work No. 1 (wind turbine generators or other offshore
construction activities including array cables and fibre optic cables) and the
expected vessel routes from the construction ports to the relevant location.
Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA and UKHO within five
days.

9.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at weekly intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction and monitoring
programme approved under condition 14(1)(b). Copies of all notices must be
provided to the MMO and UKHO within five days.

9.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office both of the commencement
(within ten days), progress and completion of construction (within ten days)
of the licensed activities in order that all necessary amendments to nautical
charts are made and the undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to
the MMO within five days.

9.11

In case of  damage to, or destruction or decay of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof, the undertaker must as soon as reasonably
practicable and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware
of any such damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, the
Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish and the UK Hydrographic Office.

9.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days following identification of a potential cable exposure,
notify mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and  by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure . Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO and MCA within five days.

###### Aids to navigation

10

10.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and to take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

10.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS including the following—

10.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

10.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

10.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

10.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation as set out in the aids to navigation management plan agreed
pursuant to condition 14(1)(k) using the reporting system provided by Trinity
House.

10.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

10.5

In the event that the provisions of condition 9(11) and condition 9(12) are
invoked, the undertaker must lay down such marker buoys, exhibit such lights
and take such other steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by
Trinity House.

###### Colouring of structures

11

11.1

Except as otherwise required by Trinity House the undertaker must colour all
structures forming part of the authorised scheme yellow (colour code RAL 1023)
from at least HAT to a height directed by Trinity House, or must colour the
structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

11.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must paint the remainder of the structures submarine grey (colour
code RAL 7035).

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

12

12.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme, including any chemical agents placed
within any monopile void, must be selected from the List of Notified Chemicals
approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under the Offshore
Chemicals Regulations 2002  (as amended).

12.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

12.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

12.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under this licence. This information must be submitted
to the MMO by 15 February each year for the months August to January
inclusive, and by 15 August each year for the months February to July
inclusive. In the event that no activity has taken place during the reporting
period the undertaker must provide a null (0) return to the MMO.

12.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within disposal site references
HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS. Any
other materials must be screened out before disposal of the inert material at
this site.

12.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

12.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

12.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

12.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed under condition
14(1)(d)(i).

12.10

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within 24
hours of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

13

13.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to make a deposit which is not authorised
under this licence, whether within or outside of the Order limits, because the
safety of human life and/or of the vessel is threatened, within 48 hours the
undertaker must notify full details of the circumstances of the deposit to the
MMO.

13.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

14

14.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

14.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be agreed in
writing with the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which
shows, in accordance with the Development Principles—

14.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all wind turbine generators,
offshore electrical platforms, accommodation platforms and meteorological
masts;

14.1.a.ii

the height to the tip of the vertical blade of all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.iii

the height to the centreline of the generator shaft forming part of the hub of
all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.iv

the rotor diameter and spacing of all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.v

the height of all lattice towers forming part of all meteorological masts;

14.1.a.vi

the height, length and width of all accommodation platforms;

14.1.a.vii

the dimensions of all foundations;

14.1.a.viii

the length and arrangement of all cables (including fibre optic cables)
comprising Work No. 1(e);

14.1.a.ix

the proposed layout of all wind turbine generators (in accordance with the
recommendations for layout contained in MGN543 and its annexes), accommodation
platforms and meteorological masts including any exclusion zones identified
under sub-paragraph (1)(h)(iv);

14.1.a.x

a plan showing the indicative layout of all wind turbine generators,
accommodation platforms and meteorological masts including all exclusion zones
(insofar as not shown in (ix) above) and showing the indicative programming of
particular works as set out in the indicative programme to be provided under
sub-paragraph (1)(b)(iv);

14.1.a.xi

any exclusion zones/micrositing requirements identified in any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph (1)(i); and

14.1.a.xii

the grid coordinates of the centre point of the proposed location for each
wind turbine generator, offshore electrical platform, substation and
meteorological mast.

to ensure conformity with the description of Work No. 1 and compliance with
conditions 1 to 8 above.

14.1.b

A construction programme and monitoring plan (which accords with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan) to include details of—

14.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

14.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

14.1.b.iii

proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format and content,
construction monitoring, post-construction surveys and monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(h) and conditions 17, 18, 19
and 20; and

14.1.b.iv

an indicative written construction programme for all wind turbine generators
accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, measurement buoys and cables
(including fibre optic cables) comprised in the works in Part 3 (licensed
marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar as not shown in paragraph (ii)
above);

with details pursuant to paragraph (iii) above to be submitted to the MMO in
accordance with the following—

14.1.b.aa

at least four months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed pre-construction monitoring;

14.1.b.bb

at least four months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;
and

14.1.b.cc

at least four months prior to commissioning, detail of post-construction (and
operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

14.1.c

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

14.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works, and having regard to any mitigation scheme pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1)(i);

14.1.c.ii

soft start procedures with specified duration periods;

14.1.c.iii

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation

14.1.c.iv

contractors;

14.1.c.v

vessels, vessels maintenance and vessels transit corridors; and

14.1.c.vi

associated and ancillary works.

14.1.d

A project environmental management plan (in accordance with the outline
project environmental management plan) covering the period of construction and
operation to include details of—

14.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

14.1.d.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

14.1.d.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

14.1.d.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer;

14.1.d.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan (which accords with the outline
fisheries liaison and co-existence plan) to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 9 and to
address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities;
and

14.1.d.vi

procedures to be followed within vessels transit corridors to minimise
disturbance to red-throated diver during operation and maintenance activities.

14.1.e

A scour protection and cable protection plan (in accordance with the outline
scour protection and cable protection plan) providing details of the need,
type, sources, quantity, distribution and installation methods for scour
protection and cable (including fibre optic cable) protection. For the
avoidance of doubt “distribution” in this sub-paragraph must include
quantities in respect of each structure comprised in the offshore works and
intended to be subject to scour protection.

14.1.f

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a marine mammal
mitigation protocol, in accordance with the draft marine mammal mitigation
protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals and
following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature
conservation bodies.

14.1.g

A cable specification, installation and monitoring plan, to include—

14.1.g.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cables)
below MHWS, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of electro-
magnetic field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in accordance with
industry good practice;

14.1.g.ii

a detailed cable (including fibre optic cables) laying plan for the Order
limits, incorporating a burial risk assessment to ascertain suitable burial
depths and cable laying techniques, including cable protection; and

14.1.g.iii

proposals for monitoring offshore cables (including fibre optic cables)
including cable protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised
scheme which includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or
shallow buried cables.

14.1.h

An archaeological written scheme of investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean low water, which must accord with the outline
written scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in
consultation with the statutory historic body to include—

14.1.h.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

14.1.h.ii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

14.1.h.iii

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

14.1.h.iv

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

14.1.h.v

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction;

14.1.h.vi

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (Online Access to the
Index of archaeological investigations) form with a digital copy of the report
within six months of completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and
to notify the MMO that the OASIS form has been submitted to the National
Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of submission;

14.1.h.vii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

14.1.h.viii

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order Limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

14.1.i

A mitigation scheme for any habitats of principal importance identified by the
survey referred to in condition 18(2)(a) and in accordance with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan.

14.1.j

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
four months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

14.1.k

An aids to navigation management plan to be agreed in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 10 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

14.1.l

In relation to ornithological monitoring—

14.1.l.i

a plan setting out the aims, objectives and timing for ornithological
monitoring which must be submitted to the MMO (in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body) at least four months prior to the
first pre-construction survey (as referred to in condition 14(1)(b)(aa)), and

14.1.l.ii

an ornithological monitoring plan setting out the methods for ornithological
monitoring which must be submitted to the MMO (in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body) in accordance with the details
and timescales approved pursuant to the plan referred to in sub-paragraph (i).

14.1.m

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, at least six
months prior to commencement of licensed activities, a site integrity plan
which accords with the principles set out in the in principle Norfolk Vanguard
Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan, and which
the MMO is satisfied would provide such mitigation as is necessary to avoid
adversely affecting the integrity (within the meaning of the 2017 Regulations)
of a relevant site, to the extent that harbour porpoise are a protected
feature of that site.

14.2

Pre-commencement surveys and archaeological investigations and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of investigation
which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the outline offshore
written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO.

14.3

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed 5,000kJ.

15

15.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition 14(h)(iii)
must be agreed with the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body.

15.2

The design plan required by condition 14(1)(a) must be prepared by the
undertaker and determined by the MMO in accordance with the Development
Principles.

15.3

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 14 must be submitted for approval at least four months prior
to the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

15.4

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 14.

15.5

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker, the MMO must use
reasonable endeavours to determine an application for approval made under
condition 14 as soon as practicable and in any event within a period of four
months commencing on the date the application is received by the MMO.

15.6

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the plans,
protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 14, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

15.7

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the project, adequately
addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised scheme
contained within MGN543 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations (OREIs) –
Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response Issues”
and its annexes.

###### Post-construction plans and documents

16

The undertaker must conduct a swath bathymetric survey to IHO S44ed5 Order 1a
across the area(s) within the Order limits in which construction works were
carried out and provide the data and survey report(s) to the MCA and UKHO.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

17

17.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

17.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

17.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

17.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

18

18.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed
format and content for a pre-construction baseline report; and—

18.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

18.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

18.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

18.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine the location and extent of any benthic
communities/benthos constituting Annex 1 reef habitats of principal importance
in whole or in part inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is
proposed to carry out construction works;

18.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a, and side scan sonar, of the area(s) within the Order
limits in which it is proposed to carry out construction works;

18.2.c

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plan
submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(l); and

18.2.d

or contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in principle
monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(b).

18.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

19

19.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In the event that driven or part-driven pile
foundations are proposed, such monitoring must include measurements of noise
generated by the installation of the first four piled foundations of each
piled foundation type to be installed unless the MMO otherwise agrees in
writing.

19.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

19.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required.  If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with Natural England, the assessment shows significantly
different impacts to those assessed in the environmental statement or failures
in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an update to the  marine
mammal mitigation protocol  and further monitoring requirements have been
agreed.

19.4

Construction monitoring must include traffic monitoring in accordance with the
outline marine traffic monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports
on the results of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in
consultation with the MCA and Trinity House.

19.5

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, the details
submitted in accordance with the offshore in principle monitoring plan must
include proposals for monitoring marine mammals.

###### Post construction

20

20.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

20.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

20.2.a

a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and composition of
any benthic habitats of conservation, ecological and/or economic importance
constituting Annex 1 reef habitats identified in the pre-construction survey
in the parts of the Order limits in which construction works were carried out.
The survey design must be informed by the results of the pre-construction
benthic survey;

20.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one full sea
floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements of IHO
S44ed5 Order 1a across the area(s) within the Order limits in which
construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables (including fibre optic cables) have been buried or
protected;

20.2.c

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plan
submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(l);

20.2.d

post-construction traffic monitoring in accordance with the outline marine
traffic monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on the results
of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in consultation with
the MCA and Trinity House; and

20.2.e

undertake or contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in
principle monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(b).

20.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

20.4

Following installation of cables (including fibre optic cables), the cable
monitoring plan required under condition 14(1)(g)(iii) must be updated with
the results of the post installation surveys. The plan must be implemented
during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme and reviewed as
specified within the plan, following cable burial surveys, or as instructed by
the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

21

21.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the UK Marine Noise Registry—

21.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licensed activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the
Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

21.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

21.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

21.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph (1) above within 7 days of the
submission.

21.3

For the purpose of this condition—

21.3.a

“ Marine Noise Registry ” means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas; and

21.3.b

“Forward Look” and “Close Out” requirements are as set out in the UK Marine
Noise Registry Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated
information document.

###### Reporting of scour and cable protection

22

22.1

Not more than 4 months following completion of the construction phase of the
authorised scheme, the undertaker must provide the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies with a report setting out details of the
cable and scour protection used for the authorised scheme.

22.2

The report must include the following information—

22.2.a

location of the cable protection and scour protection;

22.2.b

volume of cable protection and scour protection; and

22.2.c

any other information relating to the cable protection as agreed between the
MMO and the undertaker.

###### Completion of construction

23

23.1

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body within three months of the date of
completion of construction. The close out report must confirm the date of
completion of construction and must include the following details—

23.1.a

the final number of installed turbine generators;

23.1.b

the installed wind turbine generator parameters relevant for ornithological
collision risk modelling.

23.2

Following completion of construction, no further construction activities can
be undertaken under this licence.

Deemed Licence under the 2009 Act – Generation Assets (Licence 2 – Phase 2)

Article 32

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009; “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore Marine
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ accommodation platform ” means a
fixed structure providing offshore accommodation for personnel “ authorised
deposits ” means the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of Part
2 of this licence; “ authorised scheme ” means Work No. 1 described in Part 3
of this licence or any part of that work; “ cable protection ” means measures
for offshore cable crossings and where cable burial is not possible due to
ground conditions or approaching offshore structures, to protect cables and
fibre optic cables and prevent loss of seabed sediment by use of grout bags,
protective aprons, mattresses, flow energy dissipation (frond) devices or rock
and gravel dumping; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any part of
the licensed activities save for pre-construction surveys and monitoring and “
commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed accordingly; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 4 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ Development Principles ”
means the document certified as the Development Principles by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order; “ draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ draught height ”
means the distance between the lowest point of the rotating blade of the wind
turbine generator and MHWS; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised
to carry out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of the 2009 Act; “
environmental statement ” means the document certified as the environmental
statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ gravity
base system ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and
concrete which rests on the seabed either due to its own weight with or
without added ballast or additional skirts and associated equipment including
scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion protection systems,
fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and
access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “ HAT ” means highest astronomical
tide; “ in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of
Conservation Site Integrity Plan ” means the document certified as the in
principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea Special area of Conservation
Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ jacket foundation ” means a steel jacket/ lattice-type structure constructed
of steel which is fixed to the seabed at three or more points with steel pin
piles or steel suction caissons and associated equipment including scour
protection, J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion protection systems, fenders
and maintenance equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and access and
rest platform(s) and equipment; “ Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the
bulletin published by the Humber Seafood Institute or such other alternative
publication approved in writing by the MMO for the purposes of this licence; “
licence 1 (generation) ” means the licence set out in Schedule 9 (deemed
licence under the 2009 Act – generation assets (licence 1 – phase 1)); “
licensed activities ” means the activities specified in Part 3 of this
licence; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and
further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but only in relation to any
of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works), any cable
and any component part of any wind turbine generator, offshore electrical
substation, accommodation platform or meteorological mast described in Part 1
of Schedule 1 (authorised development) not including the alteration, removal
or replacement of foundations), to the extent assessed in the environmental
statement; and “maintenance” is construed accordingly; “Marine Management
Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the body created under the 2009 Act which is
responsible for the monitoring and enforcement of this licence; “ marker buoy
” means any floating device used for marker or navigation purposes, including
LIDAR buoys and wave buoys; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
“mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means the highest level which spring
tides reach on average over a period of time; “ measurement buoy ” means any
floating device used for measurement purposes, including LIDAR buoys and wave
buoys; “ meteorological mast ” means a mast housing equipment to measure wind
speed and other wind characteristics, including a topside housing electrical,
communication and associated equipment and marking and lighting; “ monopile
foundation ” means a steel pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or drilled
into the seabed and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes,
transition piece, corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance
equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s)
and equipment; “ Norfolk Vanguard East ” means the eastern area located in the
offshore Order limits within which wind turbine generators will be situated; “
Norfolk Vanguard West ” means the western area located in the offshore Order
limits within which wind turbine generators will be situated; “ notice to
mariners ” means a notice issued by the undertaker to mariners to inform them
of issues that affect the safety of navigation; “ offshore cables ” means any
cables offshore; “ offshore in principle monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the offshore in principle monitoring plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order; “ offshore Order limits ” means the
limits shown on the works plan within which the authorised scheme may be
carried out, whose grid coordinates are set out in Part 2 of this licence; “
the Order ” means the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “
outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan ” means the document certified
as the outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline marine traffic monitoring
strategy ” means the document certified as the outline marine traffic
monitoring strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ outline offshore operations and maintenance plan ” means the document
certified as the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline written scheme of
investigation (offshore) ” means the document certified as the outline written
scheme of investigation (offshore) by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this Order; “ pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or
drilled into the seabed to secure steel jacket foundations; “ relevant site ”
means a European offshore marine site or a European site as defined in the
2017 Regulations; “ scour protection ” means measures to prevent loss of
seabed sediment around any marine structure placed in or on the seabed by use
of protective aprons, mattresses with or without frond devices, or rock and
gravel placement. “ single offshore phase ” means carrying out all offshore
works as a single construction operation; “ statutory historic body ” means
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England (Historic England) or
its successor in function; “ statutory nature conservation body ” means an
organisation charged by government with advising on nature conservation
matters; “ suction caisson ” means a large diameter steel cylindrical shell
which penetrates the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential
for fixity of foundations; “ Trinity House ” means the Corporation of Trinity
House of Deptford Strond; “ two offshore phases ” means carrying out the
offshore works as two separate construction operations; “ UK Hydrographic
Office ” means the UK Hydrographic Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset,
TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means Norfolk Vanguard Limited (Company No. 08141115)
whose registered office is at 5th Floor, 70 St Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE; “
vessel ” means every description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and
includes a non-displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the
surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious
vehicle and any other thing constructed or adapted for movement through, in,
on or over water and which is at the time in, on or over water; “ wind turbine
generator ” means a structure comprising a tower, rotor with up to three
blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical and other
equipment which may include corrosion protection systems, helicopter landing
facilities and other associated equipment, fixed to a foundation; and “ works
plan ” means the plan certified as the works plan by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of the Order.

2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

3

Unless otherwise indicated—

3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT); and

3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary points of contact with the organisations listed below and the
addresses for returns and correspondence are—

4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Lowestoft Office

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 573 149;

4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

4.f

Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 562 244;

4.g

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

4.h

Historic England

Cannon Bridge

House 25

Dowgate Hill

London

EC4R 2YA

Tel: 020 7973 3700

##### Licensed Marine Activities – General

1

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108, and the
completion of such programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in
writing.

2

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article 6 (benefit of the Order).

3

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

4

Any amendments to or variations from the approved plans, protocols or
statements must be minor or immaterial and it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the MMO that they are unlikely to give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

5

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

5.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

5.b

stone and rock;

5.c

concrete;

5.d

sand and gravel;

5.e

plastic and synthetic;

5.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre
optic cable) sandwave preparation works; and

5.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

6

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) 1
52° 55′ 0.308″ N 3° 4′ 42.589″ E 6 53° 2′ 36.817″ N 2° 34′ 16.309″ E 2 52° 49′
53.975″ N 3° 5′ 22.789″ E 7 52° 49′ 38.834″ N 2° 34′ 15.809″ E 3 52° 46′
19.050″ N 3° 2′ 16.682″ E 8 52° 48′ 47.472″ N 2° 33′ 28.343″ E 4 52° 45′
10.584″ N 2° 45′ 33.989″ E 9 52° 48′ 3.133″ N 2° 26′ 37.427″ E 5 52° 51′
41.636″ N 2° 45′ 34.220″ E 10 52° 56′ 9.089″ N 2° 18′ 33.231″ E

##### Details of Licensed Marine Activities

1

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 4, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

1.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of
Part 2 of this licence;

1.b

the construction of works in or over the sea and/or on or under the sea bed;

1.c

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

1.d

the disposal of up to 37,736,390 m 3  of inert material of natural origin
within the offshore Order limits produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre optic
cable) sandwave preparation works at disposal site references HU215 and HU216
within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS, comprising—

1.d.i

36,000,000 m 3  for cable and fibre optic cable installation;

1.d.ii

1,648,824 m 3  for the wind turbine generators;

1.d.iii

75,000 m 3  for the accommodation platform; and

1.d.iv

12,566 m 3  for the meteorological masts;

1.e

the removal of static fishing equipment; and

1.f

The disposal of drill arisings in connection with any foundation drilling up
to a total of 400,624m 3 .

2

2.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of Work No. 1 (phase 2)—

2.1.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with an electrical export capacity
of up to 1,800 MW at the point of connection to the offshore electrical
platform(s) referred to at Work No. 2 comprising up to 158 wind turbine
generators each fixed to the seabed by one of the following foundation types:
monopile (piled or suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson), or
gravity base fitted with rotating blades and situated within the area shown on
the works plan and further comprising (b) to (e) below;

2.1.b

up to two accommodation platforms fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: jacket (piled or
suction caisson) or gravity base;

2.1.c

up to two meteorological masts fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: monopile (piled or
suction caisson), jacket (piled or suction caisson) or gravity base;

2.1.d

up to two LIDAR measurement buoys fixed to the seabed within the area shown on
the works plan by one of the following foundation types: monopile (piled) or
floating and up to two wave measurement buoys fixed to the seabed within the
area shown on the works plan by one foundation type (floating); and

2.1.e

a network of subsea array cables and fibre optic cables within the area shown
on the works plan between the wind turbine generators, and between the wind
turbine generators and Work No.2 including one or more offshore cable
crossings.

2.2

In connection with Work No. 1 and to the extent that they do not otherwise
form part of any such work, further associated development comprising such
other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of or in
connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which fall
within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement and the
provisions of this licence including:

2.2.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

2.2.b

cable protection measures such as the placement of rock and/or concrete
mattresses, with or without frond devices;

2.2.c

the removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work
No. 1 and the disposal of up to 37,736,390 cubic metres of inert material of
natural origin within the Order limits produced during construction drilling,
seabed preparation for foundation works, cable installation preparation such
as sandwave clearance, boulder clearance and pre–trenching and excavation of
horizontal directional drilling exit pits; and

2.2.d

removal of static fishing equipment;

2.3

In connection with such Work No. 1, ancillary works within the Order limits
which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment recorded in the
environmental statement comprising—

2.3.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

2.3.b

beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact protection
works.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

Subject to paragraph (2), each wind turbine generator forming part of the
authorised scheme must not—

1.1.a

exceed a height of 350 metres when measured from HAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

1.1.b

exceed a height of 198.5 metres to the height of the centreline of the
generator shaft forming part of the hub when measured from HAT;

1.1.c

exceed a rotor diameter of 303 metres;

1.1.d

be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in either
direction perpendicular to the approximate prevailing wind direction
(crosswind) or be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator
in either direction which is in line with the approximate prevailing wind
direction (downwind); or

1.1.e

have a draught height which is less than the minimum draught height specified
for the relevant wind turbine generator capacity in the table below

Wind Turbine Generator Capacity Minimum draught height Up to and including
14.6MW 35m from MHWS 14.7 MW and above 30m from MHWS

1.2

References to the location of a wind turbine generator in paragraph (1) above
are references to the centre point of that turbine.

1.3

The total number of wind turbine generators must not exceed 158 and must be
configured such that at any time—

1.3.a

no more than two-thirds of the total number of wind turbine generators
(rounded to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard
West; and

1.3.b

no more than one-half of the total number of wind turbine generators (rounded
to the nearest whole number) must be located in Norfolk Vanguard East.

2

2.1

The dimensions of any accommodation platform forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed 100 metres in height when measured from HAT, 90 metres
in length and 60 metres in width.

2.2

Each meteorological mast must not exceed a height of 200 metres above HAT.

2.3

Each meteorological mast must not have more than one supporting foundation.

3

The total length of the cables and the area and volume of their cable
protection must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection (m 2  and m 3 ) Work No. 1(e) (array) 600
kilometres 389,000 m 2  198,500 m 3

4

4.1

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation using piles must not
have—

4.1.a

more than four driven piles;

4.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 15
metres; or

4.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than five metres.

4.2

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 1,963 m 2 .

5

5.1

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation using piles must not
have—

5.1.a

more than four driven piles;

5.1.b

in the case of single pile structures, a pile diameter which is more than 10
metres; or

5.1.c

in the case of two or more pile structures, have a pile diameter which is more
than three metres.

5.2

In relation to a meteorological mast, each foundation must not have a seabed
footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 314 m 2 .

6

6.1

In relation to an accommodation platform, each foundation using piles must not
have—

6.1.a

more than six driven piles; or

6.1.b

a pile diameter which is more than three metres.

6.2

In relation to an accommodation platform, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 7,500 m 2 .

7

7.1

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation using piles must
not have a pile diameter of greater than 10 metres.

7.2

In relation to any LIDAR measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 79m² per
buoy and 157 m 2  in total.

7.3

In relation to any wave measurement buoys, each foundation must not have a
seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 150m² per
buoy and 300 m 2  in total.

###### Phasing of the authorised scheme

8

8.1

Taken together with works authorised and proposed to be constructed pursuant
to licence 1 (generation)—

8.1.a

the total electrical export capacity of the authorised scheme must not exceed
1,800MW at the point of connection to the offshore electrical platform(s);

8.1.b

the total number of wind turbine generators forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed 158;

8.1.c

the total number of accommodation platforms forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.d

the total number of meteorological masts forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed two;

8.1.e

the total number of LIDAR measurement buoys forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.f

the total number of wave measurement buoys forming part of the authorised
scheme must not exceed two;

8.1.g

the total amount of scour protection for the wind turbine generators,
accommodation platform(s), meteorological masts and measurement buoys forming
part of the authorised scheme must not exceed 5,176,703 m 2  and 25,883,515 m
3 ; and

8.1.h

the total amount of inert material of natural origin disposed within the
offshore Order limits as part of the authorised scheme must not exceed
37,736,390 m 3 ;

8.1.i

the total amount of disposal for drill arisings in connection with any
foundation drilling must not exceed 400,624 m 3 ; and

8.1.j

the total length of cable and the amount of cable protection must not exceed
the figures stated in condition 3 of this licence.

8.2

Prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme the undertaker must give
notice to the MMO detailing—

8.2.a

whether the authorised scheme will be constructed—

8.2.a.i

in a single offshore phase under this licence; or

8.2.a.ii

in two offshore phases under this licence and licence 1 (generation); and

8.2.b

where the authorised scheme will be constructed in two offshore phases—

8.2.b.i

prior to the commencement of phase 1, the total number of wind turbine
generators accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, LIDAR measurement
buoys and wave measurement buoys to be constructed in that phase; and

8.2.b.ii

prior to the commencement of phase 2, the total number of wind turbine
generators accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, LIDAR measurement
buoys and wave measurement buoys to be constructed in that phase.

###### Notifications and inspections

9

9.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

9.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

9.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
17; and

9.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 17; and

9.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the MMO
confirming receipt of this licence.

9.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 17 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

9.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

9.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

9.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

9.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

9.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

9.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

9.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to the commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them,
and within five days of completion of the licensed activities.

9.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

9.7.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

9.7.b

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours of completion of
construction of all offshore activities;

and confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

9.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least ten days prior to the
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them advising of the
start date of Work No. 1 (wind turbine generators or other offshore
construction activities including array cables and fibre optic cables) and the
expected vessel routes from the construction ports to the relevant location.
Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, the MCA and UKHO within
five days.

9.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at weekly intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction and monitoring
programme approved under condition 14(1)(b). Copies of all notices must be
provided to the MMO and UKHO within five days.

9.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office both of the commencement
(within ten days), progress and completion of construction (within ten days)
of the licensed activities in order that all necessary amendments to nautical
charts are made and the undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to
the MMO within five days.

9.11

In case of  damage to, or destruction or decay of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof, the undertaker must as soon as reasonably
practicable and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware
of any such damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, the
Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish and the UK Hydrographic Office.

9.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days following identification of a potential cable exposure,
notify mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure . Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO and MCA within five days.

###### Aids to navigation

10

10.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and to take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

10.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS including the following—

10.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

10.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

10.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

10.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation as set out in the aids to navigation management plan agreed
pursuant to condition 14(1)(k) using the reporting system provided by Trinity
House.

10.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

10.5

In the event that the provisions of condition 9(11) and condition 9(12) are
invoked, the undertaker must lay down such marker buoys, exhibit such lights
and take such other steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by
Trinity House.

###### Colouring of structures

11

11.1

Except as otherwise required by Trinity House the undertaker must colour all
structures forming part of the authorised scheme yellow (colour code RAL 1023)
from at least HAT to a height directed by Trinity House, or must colour the
structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

11.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must paint the remainder of the structures submarine grey (colour
code RAL 7035).

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

12

12.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme, including any chemical agents placed
within any monopile void, must be selected from the List of Notified Chemicals
approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under the Offshore
Chemicals Regulations 2002  (as amended).

12.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

12.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

12.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under this licence. This information must be submitted
to the MMO by 15 February each year for the months August to January
inclusive, and by 15 August each year for the months February to July
inclusive. In the event that no activity has taken place during the reporting
period the undertaker must provide a null (0) return to the MMO.

12.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within disposal site references
HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS. Any
other materials must be screened out before disposal of the inert material at
this site.

12.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

12.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

12.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

12.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed under condition
14(1)(d)(i).

12.10

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within 24
hours of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

13

13.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to make a deposit which is not authorised
under this licence, whether within or outside of the Order limits, because the
safety of human life and/or of the vessel is threatened, within 48 hours the
undertaker must notify full details of the circumstances of the deposit to the
MMO.

13.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

14

14.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

14.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be agreed in
writing with the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which
shows, in accordance with the Development Principles—

14.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all wind turbine generators,
offshore electrical platforms, accommodation platforms and meteorological
masts;

14.1.a.ii

the height to the tip of the vertical blade of all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.iii

the height to the centreline of the generator shaft forming part of the hub of
all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.iv

the rotor diameter and spacing of all wind turbine generators;

14.1.a.v

the height of all lattice towers forming part of all meteorological masts;

14.1.a.vi

the height, length and width of all accommodation platforms;

14.1.a.vii

the dimensions of all foundations;

14.1.a.viii

the length and arrangement of all cables (including fibre optic cables)
comprising Work No. 1(e);

14.1.a.ix

the proposed layout of all wind turbine generators (in accordance with the
recommendations for layout contained in MGN543 and its annexes), accommodation
platforms and meteorological masts including any exclusion zones identified
under sub-paragraph (1)(h)(iv);

14.1.a.x

a plan showing the indicative layout of all wind turbine generators,
accommodation platforms and meteorological masts including all exclusion zones
(insofar as not shown in (ix) above) and showing the indicative programming of
particular works as set out in the indicative programme to be provided under
sub-paragraph (1)(b)(iv);

14.1.a.xi

any exclusion zones/micrositing requirements identified in any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph (1)(i); and

14.1.a.xii

the grid coordinates of the centre point of the proposed location for each
wind turbine generator, offshore electrical platform, substation and
meteorological mast.

to ensure conformity with the description of Work No. 1 and compliance with
conditions 1 to 8 above.

14.1.b

A construction programme and monitoring plan (which accords with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan) to include details of—

14.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

14.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

14.1.b.iii

proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format and content,
construction monitoring, post-construction surveys and monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(h) and conditions 17, 18, 19
and 20; and

14.1.b.iv

an indicative written construction programme for all wind turbine generators
accommodation platforms, meteorological masts, measurement buoys and cables
(including fibre optic cables) comprised in the works in Part 3 (licensed
marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar as not shown in paragraph (ii)
above);

with details pursuant to paragraph (iii) above to be submitted to the MMO in
accordance with the following—

14.1.b.aa

at least four months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed pre-construction monitoring;

14.1.b.bb

at least four months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;
and

14.1.b.cc

at least four months prior to commissioning, detail of post-construction (and
operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

14.1.c

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

14.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works, and having regard to any mitigation scheme pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1)(i);

14.1.c.ii

soft start procedures with specified duration periods;

14.1.c.iii

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

14.1.c.iv

contractors;

14.1.c.v

vessels, vessels maintenance and vessels transit corridors; and

14.1.c.vi

associated and ancillary works.

14.1.d

A project environmental management plan (in accordance with the outline
project environmental management plan) covering the period of construction and
operation to include details of—

14.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

14.1.d.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

14.1.d.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

14.1.d.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer;

14.1.d.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan (which accords with the outline
fisheries liaison and co-existence plan) to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 9 and to
address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities;
and

14.1.d.vi

procedures to be followed within vessels transit corridors to minimise
disturbance to red-throated diver during operation and maintenance activities.

14.1.e

A scour protection and cable protection plan (in accordance with the outline
scour protection and cable protection plan) providing details of the need,
type, sources, quantity, distribution and installation methods for scour
protection and cable (including fibre optic cable) protection. For the
avoidance of doubt “distribution” in this sub-paragraph must include
quantities in respect of each structure comprised in the offshore works and
intended to be subject to scour protection.

14.1.f

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a marine mammal
mitigation protocol, in accordance with the draft marine mammal mitigation
protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals and
following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature
conservation bodies.

14.1.g

A cable specification, installation and monitoring plan, to include—

14.1.g.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cables)
below MHWS, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of electro-
magnetic field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in accordance with
industry good practice;

14.1.g.ii

a detailed cable (including fibre optic cables) laying plan for the Order
limits, incorporating a burial risk assessment to ascertain suitable burial
depths and cable laying techniques, including cable protection; and

14.1.g.iii

proposals for monitoring offshore cables (including fibre optic cables)
including cable protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised
scheme which includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or
shallow buried cables.

14.1.h

An archaeological written scheme of investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean low water, which must accord with the outline
written scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in
consultation with the statutory historic body to include—

14.1.h.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

14.1.h.ii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

14.1.h.iii

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

14.1.h.iv

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

14.1.h.v

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction;

14.1.h.vi

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (Online Access to the
Index of archaeological investigations) form with a digital copy of the report
within six months of completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and
to notify the MMO that the OASIS form has been submitted to the National
Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of submission;

14.1.h.vii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

14.1.h.viii

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order Limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

14.1.i

A mitigation scheme for any habitats of principal importance identified by the
survey referred to in condition 18(2)(a) and in accordance with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan.

14.1.j

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
four months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

14.1.k

An aids to navigation management plan to be agreed in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 10 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

14.1.l

In relation to ornithological monitoring—

14.1.l.i

a plan setting out the aims, objectives and timing for ornithological
monitoring which must be submitted to the MMO (in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body) at least four months prior to the
first pre-construction survey (as referred to in condition 14(1)(b)(aa)), and

14.1.l.ii

an ornithological monitoring plan setting out the methods for ornithological
monitoring which must be submitted to the MMO (in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body) in accordance with the details
and timescales approved pursuant to the plan referred to sub-paragraph (i).

14.1.m

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a site integrity
plan which accords with the principles set out in the in principle Norfolk
Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan,
and which the MMO is satisfied would provide such mitigation as is necessary
to avoid adversely affecting the integrity (within the meaning of the 2017
Regulations) of a relevant site, to the extent that harbour porpoise are a
protected feature of that site.

14.2

Pre-commencement surveys and archaeological investigations and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of investigation
which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the outline offshore
written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO.

14.3

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed 5,000kJ .

15

15.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition 14(h)(iii)
must be agreed with the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body.

15.2

The design plan required by condition 14(1)(a) must be prepared by the
undertaker and determined by the MMO in accordance with the Development
Principles.

15.3

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 14 must be submitted for approval at least four months prior
to the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

15.4

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 14.

15.5

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker, the MMO must use
reasonable endeavours to determine an application for approval made under
condition 14 as soon as practicable and in any event within a period of four
months commencing on the date the application is received by the MMO.

15.6

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the plans,
protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 14, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

15.7

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the project, adequately
addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised scheme
contained within MGN543 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations (OREIs) –
Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response Issues”
and its annexes.

###### Post-construction plans and documents

16

The undertaker must conduct a swath bathymetric survey to IHO S44ed5 Order 1a
across the area(s) within the Order limits in which construction works were
carried out and provide the data and survey report(s) to the MCA and UKHO.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

17

17.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

17.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

17.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

17.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

18

18.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed
format and content for a pre-construction baseline report; and—

18.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

18.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

18.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

18.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine the location and extent of any benthic
communities/benthos constituting Annex 1 reef habitats of principal importance
in whole or in part inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is
proposed to carry out construction works;

18.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a, and side scan sonar, of the area(s) within the Order
limits in which it is proposed to carry out construction works;

18.2.c

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plan
submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(l); and

18.2.d

or contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in principle
monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(b).

18.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

19

19.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In the event that driven or part-driven pile
foundations are proposed, such monitoring must include measurements of noise
generated by the installation of the first four piled foundations of each
piled foundation type to be installed unless the MMO otherwise agrees in
writing.

19.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

19.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required.  If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with Natural England, the assessment shows significantly
different impacts to those assessed in the environmental statement or failures
in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an update to the  marine
mammal mitigation protocol  and further monitoring requirements have been
agreed.

19.4

Construction monitoring must include traffic monitoring in accordance with the
outline marine traffic monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports
on the results of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in
consultation with the MCA and Trinity House.

19.5

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, the details
submitted in accordance with the offshore in principle monitoring plan must
include proposals for monitoring marine mammals.

###### Post construction

20

20.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 14(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

20.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

20.2.a

a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and composition of
any benthic habitats of conservation, ecological and/or economic importance
constituting Annex 1 reef habitats identified in the pre-construction survey
in the parts of the Order limits in which construction works were carried out.
The survey design must be informed by the results of the pre-construction
benthic survey;

20.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one full sea
floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements of IHO
S44ed5 Order 1a across the area(s) within the Order limits in which
construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables (including fibre optic cables) have been buried or
protected;

20.2.c

any ornithological monitoring required by the ornithological monitoring plan
submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(l);

20.2.d

post-construction traffic monitoring in accordance with the outline marine
traffic monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on the results
of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in consultation with
the MCA and Trinity House; and

20.2.e

contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in principle
monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 14(1)(b).

20.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

20.4

Following installation of cables (including fibre optic cables), the cable
monitoring plan required under condition 14(1)(g)(iii) must be updated with
the results of the post installation surveys. The plan must be implemented
during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme and reviewed as
specified within the plan, following cable burial surveys, or as instructed by
the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

21

21.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the UK Marine Noise Registry—

21.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licensed activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the
Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

21.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

21.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

21.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph (1) above within 7 days of the
submission.

21.3

For the purpose of this condition—

21.3.a

“ Marine Noise Registry ” means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas; and

21.3.b

“Forward Look” and “Close Out” requirements are as set out in the UK Marine
Noise Registry Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated
information document.

###### Reporting of cable and scour protection

22

22.1

Not more than 4 months following completion of the construction phase of the
authorised scheme, the undertaker must provide the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies with a report setting out details of the
cable protection and scour protection used for the authorised scheme.

22.2

The report must include the following information—

22.2.a

Location of the cable protection and scour protection;

22.2.b

volume of cable protection and scour protection; and

22.2.c

any other information relating to the cable protection as agreed between the
MMO and the undertaker.

###### Completion of construction

23

23.1

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body within three months of the date of
completion of construction. The close out report must confirm the date of
completion of construction and must include the following details—

23.1.a

the final number of installed turbine generators;

23.1.b

the installed wind turbine generator parameters relevant for ornithological
collision risk modelling.

23.2

Following completion of construction, no further construction activities can
be undertaken under this licence.

Deemed Licence under the 2009 Act – Transmission Assets (Licence 1 – Phase 1)

Article 32

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009; “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore
MarineHabitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ authorised deposits ” means
the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of Part 2 of this
licence; “ authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A, and 4B described in
Part 3 of this licence or any part of that work; “ cable protection ” means
measures for offshore cable crossings and where cable burial is not possible
due to ground conditions or approaching offshore structures, to protect cables
and fibre optic cables and prevent loss of seabed sediment by use of grout
bags, protective aprons, mattresses, flow energy dissipation (frond) devices
or rock and gravel dumping; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any
part of the licensed activities save for pre-construction surveys and
monitoring and “ commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed
accordingly; “ condition ” means a condition in Part 4 of this licence; “
Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence
Safeguarding, Defence Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton
Coldfield, West Midlands B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “
Development Principles ” means the document certified as the Development
Principles by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order; “ draft
marine mammal mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the draft
marine mammal mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this Order; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised to carry out
enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of the 2009 Act; “ environmental statement
” means the document certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order; “ gravity base system ” means a
structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on
the seabed either due to its own weight with or without added ballast or
additional skirts and associated equipment including scour protection,
J-tubes, transition piece, corrosion protection systems, fenders and
maintenance equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and access and rest
platform(s) and equipment; “ HAT ” means highest astronomical tide; “ in
principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation
Site Integrity Plan ” means the document certified as the in principle Norfolk
Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ jacket foundation
” means a steel jacket/ lattice-type structure constructed of steel which is
fixed to the seabed at three or more points with steel pin piles or steel
suction caissons and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes,
transition piece, corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance
equipment, boat access systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s)
and equipment; “ Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the bulletin
published by the Humber Seafood Institute or such other alternative
publication approved in writing by the MMO for the purposes of this licence; “
licence 2 (transmission) ” means the licence set out in Schedule 12 (deemed
licence under the 2009 Act – transmission assets (licence 2 – phase 2)); “
licensed activities ” means the activities specified in Part 3 of this
licence; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and
further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but only in relation to any
of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works), any cable
and any component part of any wind turbine generator, offshore electrical
platform, accommodation platform or meteorological mast described in Part 1 of
Schedule 1 (authorised development) not including the alteration, removal or
replacement of foundations), to the extent assessed in the environmental
statement; and “maintenance” is construed accordingly; “Marine Management
Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the body created under the 2009 Act which is
responsible for the monitoring and enforcement of this licence; “ MCA ” means
the Maritime and Coastguard Agency; “mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ”
means the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a period of
time; “ meteorological mast ” means a mast housing equipment to measure wind
speed and other wind characteristics, including a topside housing electrical,
communication and associated equipment and marking and lighting; “ notice to
mariners ” means a notice issued by the undertaker to mariners to inform them
of issues that affect the safety of navigation; “ offshore cables ” means any
cables offshore; “ offshore electrical platform ” means a platform attached to
the seabed by means of a foundation, with one or more decks, whether open or
fully clad, accommodating electrical power transformers, switchgear,
instrumentation, protection and control systems and other associated equipment
and facilities to enable the transmission of electronic communications and for
electricity to be collected at, and exported from, the platform; “ offshore in
principle monitoring plan ” means the document certified as the offshore in
principle monitoring plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order; “ offshore Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plan
within which the authorised scheme may be carried out, whose grid coordinates
are set out in Part 2 of this licence; “ the Order ” means the Norfolk
Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “ outline offshore operations and
maintenance plan ” means the document certified as the outline offshore
operations and maintenance plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order; “ outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan ” means the
document certified as the outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline written
scheme of investigation (offshore) ” means the document certified as the
outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order; “ pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles
driven and/or drilled into the seabed to secure steel jacket foundations; “
relevant site ” means a European offshore marine site or a European site as
defined in the 2017 Regulations; “ scour protection ” means measures to
prevent loss of seabed sediment around any marine structure placed in or on
the seabed by use of protective aprons, mattresses with or without frond
devices, or rock and gravel placement. “ single offshore phase ” means
carrying out all offshore works as a single construction operation; “
statutory historic body ” means Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission
for England (Historic England) or its successor in function; “ statutory
nature conservation body ” means an organisation charged by government with
advising on nature conservation matters; “ suction caisson ” means a large
diameter steel cylindrical shell which penetrates the seabed assisted by a
hydrostatic pressure differential for fixity of foundations; “ Trinity House ”
means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “ two offshore
phases ” means carrying out the offshore works as two separate construction
operations; “ UK Hydrographic Office ” means the UK Hydrographic Office of
Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means Norfolk
Vanguard Limited (Company No. 08141115) whose registered office is at 5th
Floor, 70 St Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE; “ vessel ” means every description of
vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a
personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil
vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing
constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is
at the time in, on or over water; “Work No. 4C” means the onshore transmission
works at the landfall consisting of up to two transition jointing pits and up
to four cables to be laid in ducts underground and associated fibre optic
cables laid within cable ducts from MHWS at Happisburgh South, North Norfolk;
and “ works plan ” means the plan certified as the works plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of the Order.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT); and

1.3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary points of contact with the organisations listed below and the
addresses for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Lowestoft Office

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 573 149;

1.4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

1.4.f

Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 562 244;

1.4.g

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.h

Historic England

Cannon Bridge

House 25

Dowgate Hill

London

EC4R 2YA

Tel: 020 7973 3700

##### Licensed Marine Activities – General

1

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108, and the
completion of such programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in
writing.

2

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article 6 (benefit of the Order).

3

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

4

Any amendments to or variations from the approved plans, protocols or
statements must be minor or immaterial and it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the MMO that they are unlikely to give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

5

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

5.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

5.b

stone and rock;

5.c

concrete;

5.d

sand and gravel;

5.e

plastic and synthetic;

5.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre
optic cable) sandwave preparation works; and

5.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

6

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) 1
52° 55′ 0.308″ N 3° 4′ 42.589″ E 269 52° 48′ 36.617″ N 1° 39′ 45.198″ E 2 52°
49′ 53.975″ N 3° 5′ 22.789″ E 270 52° 48′ 36.608″ N 1° 39′ 45.442″ E 3 52° 46′
19.050″ N 3° 2′ 16.682″ E 271 52° 48′ 36.111″ N 1° 39′ 58.227″ E 4 52° 45′
10.584″ N 2° 45′ 33.989″ E 272 52° 47′ 53.162″ N 1° 57′ 17.842″ E 5 52° 51′
41.636″ N 2° 45′ 34.220″ E 273 52° 47′ 51.688″ N 1° 57′ 48.405″ E 6 53° 2′
36.817″ N 2° 34′ 16.309″ E 274 52° 47′ 50.436″ N 1° 58′ 0.642″ E 7 52° 49′
38.834″ N 2° 34′ 15.809″ E 275 52° 47′ 48.214″ N 1° 58′ 12.320″ E 8 52° 48′
47.472″ N 2° 33′ 28.343″ E 276 52° 47′ 42.495″ N 1° 58′ 33.820″ E 9 52° 48′
3.133″ N 2° 26′ 37.427″ E 277 52° 47′ 36.793″ N 1° 58′ 49.157″ E 10 52° 56′
9.089″ N 2° 18′ 33.231″ E 278 52° 47′ 27.713″ N 1° 59′ 7.719″ E 11 52° 45′
11.467″ N 2° 45′ 30.454″ E 279 52° 47′ 19.963″ N 1° 59′ 19.409″ E 12 52° 45′
11.943″ N 2° 45′ 28.711″ E 280 52° 47′ 10.581″ N 1° 59′ 30.409″ E 13 52° 45′
12.967″ N 2° 45′ 25.281″ E 281 52° 45′ 3.401″ N 2° 1′ 51.874″ E 14 52° 45′
14.081″ N 2° 45′ 21.928″ E 282 52° 45′ 3.127″ N 2° 1′ 52.189″ E 15 52° 45′
15.285″ N 2° 45′ 18.661″ E 283 52° 45′ 2.287″ N 2° 1′ 53.183″ E 16 52° 45′
15.920″ N 2° 45′ 17.061″ E 284 52° 45′ 1.635″ N 2° 1′ 53.925″ E 17 52° 45′
17.254″ N 2° 45′ 13.933″ E 285 52° 45′ 1.351″ N 2° 1′ 54.277″ E 18 52° 45′
17.952″ N 2° 45′ 12.407″ E 286 52° 45′ 0.388″ N 2° 1′ 55.510″ E 19 52° 45′
19.409″ N 2° 45′ 9.432″ E 287 52° 45′ 0.110″ N 2° 1′ 55.877″ E 20 52° 45′
20.533″ N 2° 45′ 7.335″ E 288 52° 44′ 59.840″ N 2° 1′ 56.258″ E 21 52° 45′
20.944″ N 2° 45′ 6.567″ E 289 52° 44′ 58.926″ N 2° 1′ 57.587″ E 22 52° 45′
21.741″ N 2° 45′ 5.178″ E 290 52° 44′ 58.663″ N 2° 1′ 57.982″ E 23 52° 45′
23.389″ N 2° 45′ 2.488″ E 291 52° 44′ 58.407″ N 2° 1′ 58.390″ E 24 52° 45′
24.240″ N 2° 45′ 1.188″ E 292 52° 44′ 57.545″ N 2° 1′ 59.812″ E 25 52° 45′
25.993″ N 2° 44′ 58.685″ E 293 52° 44′ 57.298″ N 2° 2′ 0.233″ E 26 52° 45′
27.812″ N 2° 44′ 56.313″ E 294 52° 44′ 57.059″ N 2° 2′ 0.667″ E 27 52° 45′
29.693″ N 2° 44′ 54.076″ E 295 52° 44′ 56.253″ N 2° 2′ 2.175″ E 28 52° 45′
31.632″ N 2° 44′ 51.980″ E 296 52° 44′ 56.022″ N 2° 2′ 2.621″ E 29 52° 45′
32.623″ N 2° 44′ 50.985″ E 297 52° 44′ 55.800″ N 2° 2′ 3.078″ E 30 52° 45′
33.626″ N 2° 44′ 50.027″ E 298 52° 44′ 55.053″ N 2° 2′ 4.667″ E 31 52° 45′
35.671″ N 2° 44′ 48.223″ E 299 52° 44′ 54.839″ N 2° 2′ 5.136″ E 32 52° 45′
37.763″ N 2° 44′ 46.570″ E 300 52° 44′ 54.635″ N 2° 2′ 5.615″ E 33 52° 45′
39.897″ N 2° 44′ 45.071″ E 301 52° 44′ 53.950″ N 2° 2′ 7.278″ E 34 52° 45′
42.069″ N 2° 44′ 43.731″ E 302 52° 44′ 53.755″ N 2° 2′ 7.768″ E 35 52° 45′
43.168″ N 2° 44′ 43.121″ E 303 52° 44′ 53.569″ N 2° 2′ 8.268″ E 36 52° 45′
44.275″ N 2° 44′ 42.551″ E 304 52° 44′ 52.949″ N 2° 2′ 9.998″ E 37 52° 45′
46.511″ N 2° 44′ 41.534″ E 305 52° 44′ 52.773″ N 2° 2′ 10.507″ E 38 52° 45′
47.638″ N 2° 44′ 41.087″ E 306 52° 44′ 52.607″ N 2° 2′ 11.025″ E 39 52° 45′
48.833″ N 2° 44′ 40.681″ E 307 52° 44′ 52.053″ N 2° 2′ 12.816″ E 40 52° 46′
9.781″ N 2° 44′ 40.687″ E 308 52° 44′ 51.897″ N 2° 2′ 13.343″ E 41 52° 46′
46.724″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 309 52° 44′ 51.751″ N 2° 2′ 13.877″ E 42 52° 46′
48.173″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 310 52° 44′ 51.267″ N 2° 2′ 15.722″ E 43 52° 46′
52.974″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 311 52° 44′ 51.131″ N 2° 2′ 16.263″ E 44 52° 46′
55.152″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 312 52° 44′ 51.006″ N 2° 2′ 16.812″ E 45 52° 46′
57.976″ N 2° 44′ 40.699″ E 313 52° 44′ 50.593″ N 2° 2′ 18.703″ E 46 52° 47′
0.395″ N 2° 44′ 40.053″ E 314 52° 44′ 50.478″ N 2° 2′ 19.257″ E 47 52° 47′
1.558″ N 2° 44′ 39.624″ E 315 52° 44′ 50.373″ N 2° 2′ 19.818″ E 48 52° 47′
1.970″ N 2° 44′ 39.479″ E 316 52° 44′ 50.034″ N 2° 2′ 21.747″ E 49 52° 47′
2.003″ N 2° 44′ 39.463″ E 317 52° 44′ 49.940″ N 2° 2′ 22.313″ E 50 52° 47′
3.144″ N 2° 44′ 38.936″ E 318 52° 44′ 49.857″ N 2° 2′ 22.883″ E 51 52° 47′
4.295″ N 2° 44′ 38.272″ E 319 52° 44′ 49.592″ N 2° 2′ 24.844″ E 52 52° 47′
4.681″ N 2° 44′ 38.004″ E 320 52° 44′ 49.520″ N 2° 2′ 25.418″ E 53 52° 47′
4.998″ N 2° 44′ 37.816″ E 321 52° 44′ 49.459″ N 2° 2′ 25.996″ E 54 52° 47′
5.524″ N 2° 44′ 37.450″ E 322 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 2′ 27.980″ E 55 52° 47′
6.616″ N 2° 44′ 36.554″ E 323 52° 44′ 49.218″ N 2° 2′ 28.561″ E 56 52° 47′
7.671″ N 2° 44′ 35.546″ E 324 52° 44′ 49.179″ N 2° 2′ 29.143″ E 57 52° 47′
8.686″ N 2° 44′ 34.431″ E 325 52° 44′ 49.065″ N 2° 2′ 31.144″ E 58 52° 47′
9.657″ N 2° 44′ 33.214″ E 326 52° 44′ 49.037″ N 2° 2′ 31.728″ E 59 52° 47′
10.579″ N 2° 44′ 31.898″ E 327 52° 44′ 49.021″ N 2° 2′ 32.314″ E 60 52° 47′
11.449″ N 2° 44′ 30.489″ E 328 52° 44′ 48.989″ N 2° 2′ 34.021″ E 61 52° 47′
12.264″ N 2° 44′ 28.993″ E 329 52° 44′ 48.983″ N 2° 2′ 34.638″ E 62 52° 47′
13.021″ N 2° 44′ 27.415″ E 330 52° 44′ 49.220″ N 2° 15′ 49.970″ E 63 52° 47′
13.715″ N 2° 44′ 25.762″ E 331 52° 44′ 49.236″ N 2° 15′ 51.345″ E 64 52° 47′
14.346″ N 2° 44′ 24.040″ E 332 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 15′ 53.169″ E 65 52° 47′
14.910″ N 2° 44′ 22.257″ E 333 52° 44′ 49.284″ N 2° 15′ 53.754″ E 66 52° 47′
15.404″ N 2° 44′ 20.418″ E 334 52° 44′ 49.311″ N 2° 15′ 54.339″ E 67 52° 47′
15.784″ N 2° 44′ 18.728″ E 335 52° 44′ 49.422″ N 2° 15′ 56.340″ E 68 52° 47′
15.918″ N 2° 44′ 18.041″ E 336 52° 44′ 49.460″ N 2° 15′ 56.922″ E 69 52° 47′
16.179″ N 2° 44′ 16.606″ E 337 52° 44′ 49.509″ N 2° 15′ 57.503″ E 70 52° 47′
16.456″ N 2° 44′ 14.647″ E 338 52° 44′ 49.680″ N 2° 15′ 59.308″ E 71 52° 47′
16.520″ N 2° 44′ 14.023″ E 339 52° 44′ 49.731″ N 2° 15′ 59.809″ E 72 52° 47′
16.658″ N 2° 44′ 12.664″ E 340 52° 44′ 49.791″ N 2° 16′ 0.309″ E 73 52° 47′
16.784″ N 2° 44′ 10.663″ E 341 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 74 52° 47′
16.834″ N 2° 44′ 8.653″ E 342 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 75 52° 47′
16.807″ N 2° 44′ 6.642″ E 343 52° 45′ 49.555″ N 2° 23′ 47.080″ E 76 52° 47′
16.703″ N 2° 44′ 4.638″ E 344 52° 45′ 49.556″ N 2° 23′ 47.093″ E 77 52° 47′
16.559″ N 2° 44′ 3.046″ E 345 52° 45′ 49.762″ N 2° 23′ 48.593″ E 78 52° 47′
15.589″ N 2° 43′ 55.247″ E 346 52° 45′ 50.105″ N 2° 23′ 50.522″ E 79 52° 47′
14.341″ N 2° 43′ 45.216″ E 347 52° 45′ 50.521″ N 2° 23′ 52.412″ E 80 52° 47′
13.615″ N 2° 43′ 39.381″ E 348 52° 45′ 51.008″ N 2° 23′ 54.255″ E 81 52° 47′
13.538″ N 2° 43′ 38.765″ E 349 52° 45′ 51.565″ N 2° 23′ 56.044″ E 82 52° 43′
46.039″ N 2° 16′ 19.075″ E 350 52° 45′ 52.188″ N 2° 23′ 57.772″ E 83 52° 43′
45.182″ N 2° 16′ 10.004″ E 351 52° 45′ 52.876″ N 2° 23′ 59.431″ E 84 52° 43′
44.634″ N 2° 16′ 0.162″ E 352 52° 45′ 53.626″ N 2° 24′ 1.017″ E 85 52° 43′
44.531″ N 2° 15′ 54.221″ E 353 52° 45′ 54.434″ N 2° 24′ 2.521″ E 86 52° 43′
44.490″ N 2° 15′ 51.462″ E 354 52° 45′ 55.299″ N 2° 24′ 3.939″ E 87 52° 43′
44.512″ N 2° 7′ 23.550″ E 355 52° 45′ 56.215″ N 2° 24′ 5.265″ E 88 52° 42′
44.166″ N 2° 3′ 14.512″ E 356 52° 45′ 57.180″ N 2° 24′ 6.493″ E 89 52° 42′
43.152″ N 2° 3′ 9.802″ E 357 52° 45′ 58.191″ N 2° 24′ 7.619″ E 90 52° 42′
42.369″ N 2° 3′ 4.946″ E 358 52° 45′ 59.242″ N 2° 24′ 8.639″ E 91 52° 42′
31.534″ N 2° 1′ 44.644″ E 359 52° 46′ 0.330″ N 2° 24′ 9.547″ E 92 52° 42′
31.056″ N 2° 1′ 40.338″ E 360 52° 46′ 1.450″ N 2° 24′ 10.341″ E 93 52° 42′
30.948″ N 2° 1′ 39.044″ E 361 52° 46′ 2.598″ N 2° 24′ 11.017″ E 94 52° 42′
30.701″ N 2° 1′ 34.686″ E 362 52° 46′ 3.770″ N 2° 24′ 11.573″ E 95 52° 42′
30.654″ N 2° 1′ 30.309″ E 363 52° 46′ 4.960″ N 2° 24′ 12.007″ E 96 52° 42′
30.675″ N 2° 1′ 29.003″ E 364 52° 46′ 6.165″ N 2° 24′ 12.317″ E 97 52° 42′
30.833″ N 2° 1′ 25.173″ E 365 52° 46′ 7.380″ N 2° 24′ 12.501″ E 98 52° 42′
33.173″ N 2° 0′ 49.768″ E 366 52° 46′ 8.022″ N 2° 24′ 12.532″ E 99 52° 42′
34.216″ N 2° 0′ 40.941″ E 367 52° 46′ 9.762″ N 2° 24′ 12.670″ E 100 52° 42′
34.439″ N 2° 0′ 39.649″ E 368 52° 50′ 9.656″ N 2° 24′ 31.707″ E 101 52° 42′
35.302″ N 2° 0′ 35.379″ E 369 52° 51′ 3.549″ N 2° 34′ 15.864″ E 102 52° 42′
41.649″ N 2° 0′ 7.655″ E 370 52° 51′ 3.486″ N 2° 34′ 19.188″ E 103 52° 42′
43.788″ N 2° 0′ 0.073″ E 371 52° 51′ 3.295″ N 2° 34′ 22.530″ E 104 52° 42′
44.149″ N 1° 59′ 59.016″ E 372 52° 51′ 2.978″ N 2° 34′ 25.846″ E 105 52° 42′
45.445″ N 1° 59′ 55.557″ E 373 52° 51′ 2.535″ N 2° 34′ 29.122″ E 106 52° 42′
55.437″ N 1° 59′ 30.877″ E 374 52° 51′ 1.968″ N 2° 34′ 32.346″ E 107 52° 42′
55.855″ N 1° 59′ 29.924″ E 375 52° 51′ 1.280″ N 2° 34′ 35.504″ E 108 52° 42′
58.378″ N 1° 59′ 24.593″ E 376 52° 51′ 0.473″ N 2° 34′ 38.585″ E 109 52° 42′
58.842″ N 1° 59′ 23.685″ E 377 52° 50′ 59.551″ N 2° 34′ 41.577″ E 110 52° 43′
0.673″ N 1° 59′ 20.588″ E 378 52° 50′ 58.516″ N 2° 34′ 44.466″ E 111 52° 43′
2.861″ N 1° 59′ 17.394″ E 379 52° 50′ 57.374″ N 2° 34′ 47.243″ E 112 52° 43′
17.859″ N 1° 58′ 57.179″ E 380 52° 50′ 56.129″ N 2° 34′ 49.896″ E 113 52° 43′
19.625″ N 1° 58′ 54.953″ E 381 52° 50′ 54.785″ N 2° 34′ 52.414″ E 114 52° 43′
21.284″ N 1° 58′ 53.106″ E 382 52° 50′ 53.348″ N 2° 34′ 54.787″ E 115 52° 43′
21.796″ N 1° 58′ 52.576″ E 383 52° 50′ 51.823″ N 2° 34′ 57.007″ E 116 52° 43′
23.547″ N 1° 58′ 50.895″ E 384 52° 50′ 50.218″ N 2° 34′ 59.065″ E 117 52° 45′
46.103″ N 1° 56′ 43.184″ E 385 52° 50′ 48.537″ N 2° 35′ 0.952″ E 118 52° 46′
2.160″ N 1° 56′ 27.260″ E 386 52° 50′ 46.788″ N 2° 35′ 2.661″ E 119 52° 46′
3.532″ N 1° 56′ 26.078″ E 387 52° 50′ 44.977″ N 2° 35′ 4.185″ E 120 52° 46′
17.577″ N 1° 56′ 12.146″ E 388 52° 50′ 43.112″ N 2° 35′ 5.518″ E 121 52° 46′
37.038″ N 1° 55′ 33.566″ E 389 52° 50′ 41.200″ N 2° 35′ 6.655″ E 122 52° 46′
51.513″ N 1° 54′ 38.977″ E 390 52° 50′ 39.248″ N 2° 35′ 7.591″ E 123 52° 46′
58.151″ N 1° 53′ 21.115″ E 391 52° 50′ 37.265″ N 2° 35′ 8.323″ E 124 52° 46′
59.490″ N 1° 52′ 52.341″ E 392 52° 50′ 33.492″ N 2° 35′ 9.272″ E 125 52° 47′
32.039″ N 1° 39′ 38.159″ E 393 52° 50′ 32.920″ N 2° 35′ 9.346″ E 126 52° 47′
32.129″ N 1° 39′ 36.152″ E 394 52° 46′ 31.498″ N 2° 26′ 1.301″ E 127 52° 47′
32.273″ N 1° 39′ 33.526″ E 395 52° 46′ 31.407″ N 2° 26′ 1.294″ E 128 52° 47′
32.388″ N 1° 39′ 31.565″ E 396 52° 46′ 31.505″ N 2° 26′ 1.330″ E 129 52° 47′
32.521″ N 1° 39′ 29.607″ E 397 52° 46′ 30.476″ N 2° 26′ 1.280″ E 130 52° 47′
32.673″ N 1° 39′ 27.652″ E 398 52° 46′ 29.257″ N 2° 26′ 1.347″ E 131 52° 47′
32.844″ N 1° 39′ 25.702″ E 399 52° 46′ 28.043″ N 2° 26′ 1.540″ E 132 52° 47′
33.028″ N 1° 39′ 23.714″ E 400 52° 46′ 26.839″ N 2° 26′ 1.859″ E 133 52° 47′
33.217″ N 1° 39′ 21.768″ E 401 52° 46′ 25.650″ N 2° 26′ 2.301″ E 134 52° 47′
33.425″ N 1° 39′ 19.828″ E 402 52° 46′ 24.480″ N 2° 26′ 2.866″ E 135 52° 47′
33.652″ N 1° 39′ 17.893″ E 403 52° 46′ 23.333″ N 2° 26′ 3.551″ E 136 52° 47′
33.896″ N 1° 39′ 15.964″ E 404 52° 46′ 22.215″ N 2° 26′ 4.353″ E 137 52° 47′
34.155″ N 1° 39′ 13.999″ E 405 52° 46′ 21.130″ N 2° 26′ 5.269″ E 138 52° 47′
34.419″ N 1° 39′ 12.073″ E 406 52° 46′ 20.230″ N 2° 26′ 6.150″ E 139 52° 47′
34.701″ N 1° 39′ 10.153″ E 407 52° 46′ 20.081″ N 2° 26′ 6.296″ E 140 52° 47′
35.001″ N 1° 39′ 8.241″ E 408 52° 46′ 19.074″ N 2° 26′ 7.430″ E 141 52° 47′
35.320″ N 1° 39′ 6.337″ E 409 52° 46′ 18.112″ N 2° 26′ 8.665″ E 142 52° 47′
35.827″ N 1° 39′ 3.397″ E 410 52° 46′ 17.199″ N 2° 26′ 9.998″ E 143 52° 47′
36.193″ N 1° 39′ 1.398″ E 411 52° 46′ 16.338″ N 2° 26′ 11.422″ E 144 52° 47′
36.599″ N 1° 38′ 59.313″ E 412 52° 46′ 15.534″ N 2° 26′ 12.933″ E 145 52° 47′
37.000″ N 1° 38′ 57.371″ E 413 52° 46′ 14.788″ N 2° 26′ 14.524″ E 146 52° 47′
37.497″ N 1° 38′ 55.056″ E 414 52° 46′ 14.105″ N 2° 26′ 16.189″ E 147 52° 47′
37.906″ N 1° 38′ 53.193″ E 415 52° 46′ 13.486″ N 2° 26′ 17.921″ E 148 52° 47′
38.332″ N 1° 38′ 51.340″ E 416 52° 46′ 12.935″ N 2° 26′ 19.714″ E 149 52° 47′
38.777″ N 1° 38′ 49.499″ E 417 52° 46′ 12.453″ N 2° 26′ 21.561″ E 150 52° 47′
39.239″ N 1° 38′ 47.670″ E 418 52° 46′ 12.042″ N 2° 26′ 23.454″ E 151 52° 48′
59.902″ N 1° 33′ 32.091″ E 419 52° 46′ 11.704″ N 2° 26′ 25.386″ E 152 52° 49′
1.602″ N 1° 33′ 25.973″ E 420 52° 46′ 11.440″ N 2° 26′ 27.349″ E 153 52° 49′
2.819″ N 1° 33′ 19.121″ E 421 52° 46′ 11.252″ N 2° 26′ 29.335″ E 154 52° 49′
3.674″ N 1° 33′ 13.073″ E 422 52° 46′ 11.139″ N 2° 26′ 31.337″ E 155 52° 49′
3.797″ N 1° 33′ 6.096″ E 423 52° 46′ 11.103″ N 2° 26′ 33.346″ E 156 52° 49′
2.898″ N 1° 32′ 57.549″ E 424 52° 46′ 11.144″ N 2° 26′ 35.356″ E 157 52° 49′
4.139″ N 1° 32′ 54.271″ E 425 52° 46′ 11.261″ N 2° 26′ 37.357″ E 158 52° 49′
4.845″ N 1° 32′ 52.212″ E 426 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.780″ E 159 52° 49′
5.188″ N 1° 32′ 51.467″ E 427 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.781″ E 160 52° 49′
6.147″ N 1° 32′ 49.575″ E 428 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.782″ E 161 52° 49′
7.035″ N 1° 32′ 47.473″ E 429 52° 47′ 4.976″ N 2° 33′ 42.433″ E 162 52° 49′
7.208″ N 1° 32′ 46.999″ E 430 52° 47′ 5.398″ N 2° 33′ 45.780″ E 163 52° 49′
8.015″ N 1° 32′ 44.486″ E 431 52° 47′ 6.051″ N 2° 33′ 50.967″ E 164 52° 49′
8.663″ N 1° 32′ 42.319″ E 432 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 165 52° 49′
8.910″ N 1° 32′ 41.417″ E 433 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 166 52° 49′
9.102″ N 1° 32′ 41.019″ E 434 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.473″ E 167 52° 49′
9.635″ N 1° 32′ 40.648″ E 435 52° 47′ 6.675″ N 2° 33′ 55.224″ E 168 52° 49′
9.807″ N 1° 32′ 40.345″ E 436 52° 47′ 7.088″ N 2° 33′ 57.116″ E 169 52° 49′
9.768″ N 1° 32′ 39.737″ E 437 52° 47′ 7.573″ N 2° 33′ 58.962″ E 170 52° 49′
9.855″ N 1° 32′ 38.941″ E 438 52° 47′ 8.126″ N 2° 34′ 0.754″ E 171 52° 49′
10.086″ N 1° 32′ 38.247″ E 439 52° 47′ 8.747″ N 2° 34′ 2.485″ E 172 52° 49′
10.218″ N 1° 32′ 37.939″ E 440 52° 47′ 9.433″ N 2° 34′ 4.148″ E 173 52° 49′
10.691″ N 1° 32′ 36.993″ E 441 52° 47′ 10.180″ N 2° 34′ 5.737″ E 174 52° 49′
11.553″ N 1° 32′ 35.417″ E 442 52° 47′ 10.987″ N 2° 34′ 7.246″ E 175 52° 49′
12.200″ N 1° 32′ 33.887″ E 443 52° 47′ 11.849″ N 2° 34′ 8.668″ E 176 52° 49′
12.742″ N 1° 32′ 32.736″ E 444 52° 47′ 12.764″ N 2° 34′ 9.998″ E 177 52° 49′
13.080″ N 1° 32′ 31.922″ E 445 52° 47′ 13.727″ N 2° 34′ 11.230″ E 178 52° 49′
13.507″ N 1° 32′ 31.040″ E 446 52° 47′ 14.736″ N 2° 34′ 12.361″ E 179 52° 49′
14.325″ N 1° 32′ 29.767″ E 447 52° 47′ 15.785″ N 2° 34′ 13.384″ E 180 52° 49′
14.340″ N 1° 32′ 29.796″ E 448 52° 47′ 16.872″ N 2° 34′ 14.297″ E 181 52° 49′
15.178″ N 1° 32′ 31.478″ E 449 52° 47′ 17.991″ N 2° 34′ 15.096″ E 182 52° 49′
15.638″ N 1° 32′ 32.401″ E 450 52° 47′ 19.138″ N 2° 34′ 15.777″ E 183 52° 49′
45.178″ N 1° 33′ 31.705″ E 451 52° 47′ 20.309″ N 2° 34′ 16.338″ E 184 52° 49′
45.944″ N 1° 33′ 33.513″ E 452 52° 47′ 21.499″ N 2° 34′ 16.777″ E 185 52° 49′
46.772″ N 1° 33′ 35.540″ E 453 52° 47′ 22.704″ N 2° 34′ 17.091″ E 186 52° 49′
47.579″ N 1° 33′ 37.591″ E 454 52° 47′ 23.918″ N 2° 34′ 17.280″ E 187 52° 49′
48.363″ N 1° 33′ 39.664″ E 455 52° 47′ 25.496″ N 2° 34′ 17.365″ E 188 52° 49′
49.126″ N 1° 33′ 41.760″ E 456 52° 48′ 2.953″ N 2° 26′ 36.184″ E 189 52° 49′
49.866″ N 1° 33′ 43.878″ E 457 52° 48′ 2.518″ N 2° 26′ 33.730″ E 190 52° 49′
50.585″ N 1° 33′ 46.016″ E 458 52° 48′ 1.985″ N 2° 26′ 31.328″ E 191 52° 49′
51.280″ N 1° 33′ 48.175″ E 459 52° 48′ 1.357″ N 2° 26′ 28.991″ E 192 52° 49′
51.952″ N 1° 33′ 50.354″ E 460 52° 48′ 1.009″ N 2° 26′ 27.849″ E 193 52° 49′
52.602″ N 1° 33′ 52.551″ E 461 52° 48′ 0.243″ N 2° 26′ 25.626″ E 194 52° 49′
53.228″ N 1° 33′ 54.767″ E 462 52° 47′ 59.827″ N 2° 26′ 24.547″ E 195 52° 49′
53.831″ N 1° 33′ 57.000″ E 463 52° 47′ 58.931″ N 2° 26′ 22.461″ E 196 52° 49′
54.410″ N 1° 33′ 59.251″ E 464 52° 47′ 57.954″ N 2° 26′ 20.477″ E 197 52° 49′
54.965″ N 1° 34′ 1.518″ E 465 52° 47′ 57.436″ N 2° 26′ 19.526″ E 198 52° 49′
55.496″ N 1° 34′ 3.800″ E 466 52° 47′ 56.343″ N 2° 26′ 17.712″ E 199 52° 49′
56.003″ N 1° 34′ 6.098″ E 467 52° 47′ 55.181″ N 2° 26′ 16.022″ E 200 52° 49′
56.486″ N 1° 34′ 8.409″ E 468 52° 47′ 53.953″ N 2° 26′ 14.462″ E 201 52° 49′
56.944″ N 1° 34′ 10.735″ E 469 52° 47′ 53.316″ N 2° 26′ 13.734″ E 202 52° 49′
57.378″ N 1° 34′ 13.073″ E 470 52° 47′ 52.000″ N 2° 26′ 12.384″ E 203 52° 49′
57.786″ N 1° 34′ 15.423″ E 471 52° 47′ 51.322″ N 2° 26′ 11.763″ E 204 52° 49′
58.171″ N 1° 34′ 17.784″ E 472 52° 47′ 49.931″ N 2° 26′ 10.635″ E 205 52° 49′
58.530″ N 1° 34′ 20.157″ E 473 52° 47′ 48.498″ N 2° 26′ 9.662″ E 206 52° 49′
58.864″ N 1° 34′ 22.539″ E 474 52° 47′ 47.030″ N 2° 26′ 8.847″ E 207 52° 49′
59.173″ N 1° 34′ 24.930″ E 475 52° 47′ 45.531″ N 2° 26′ 8.195″ E 208 52° 49′
59.456″ N 1° 34′ 27.330″ E 476 52° 47′ 44.124″ N 2° 26′ 7.739″ E 209 52° 49′
59.714″ N 1° 34′ 29.738″ E 477 52° 47′ 42.819″ N 2° 26′ 7.446″ E 210 52° 49′
59.947″ N 1° 34′ 32.153″ E 478 52° 47′ 42.518″ N 2° 26′ 7.422″ E 211 52° 50′
0.154″ N 1° 34′ 34.574″ E 479 52° 47′ 40.198″ N 2° 26′ 6.759″ E 212 52° 50′
0.336″ N 1° 34′ 37.001″ E 480 52° 47′ 32.505″ N 2° 26′ 6.180″ E 213 52° 50′
0.492″ N 1° 34′ 39.433″ E 481 52° 50′ 2.151″ N 2° 35′ 9.316″ E 214 52° 50′
0.623″ N 1° 34′ 41.869″ E 482 52° 47′ 39.858″ N 2° 35′ 10.667″ E 215 52° 50′
0.727″ N 1° 34′ 44.308″ E 483 52° 47′ 38.680″ N 2° 35′ 10.728″ E 216 52° 50′
0.806″ N 1° 34′ 46.750″ E 484 52° 47′ 37.466″ N 2° 35′ 10.917″ E 217 52° 50′
0.859″ N 1° 34′ 49.193″ E 485 52° 47′ 36.261″ N 2° 35′ 11.231″ E 218 52° 50′
0.887″ N 1° 34′ 51.638″ E 486 52° 47′ 35.071″ N 2° 35′ 11.670″ E 219 52° 50′
0.888″ N 1° 34′ 54.083″ E 487 52° 47′ 33.900″ N 2° 35′ 12.231″ E 220 52° 50′
0.864″ N 1° 34′ 56.528″ E 488 52° 47′ 32.753″ N 2° 35′ 12.912″ E 221 52° 50′
0.814″ N 1° 34′ 58.972″ E 489 52° 47′ 31.634″ N 2° 35′ 13.711″ E 222 52° 50′
0.739″ N 1° 35′ 1.414″ E 490 52° 47′ 30.547″ N 2° 35′ 14.623″ E 223 52° 50′
0.637″ N 1° 35′ 3.854″ E 491 52° 47′ 29.498″ N 2° 35′ 15.647″ E 224 52° 50′
0.510″ N 1° 35′ 6.290″ E 492 52° 47′ 28.489″ N 2° 35′ 16.777″ E 225 52° 50′
0.357″ N 1° 35′ 8.722″ E 493 52° 47′ 27.525″ N 2° 35′ 18.010″ E 226 52° 50′
0.178″ N 1° 35′ 11.150″ E 494 52° 47′ 26.611″ N 2° 35′ 19.340″ E 227 52° 49′
59.974″ N 1° 35′ 13.572″ E 495 52° 47′ 25.748″ N 2° 35′ 20.762″ E 228 52° 49′
59.745″ N 1° 35′ 15.987″ E 496 52° 47′ 24.942″ N 2° 35′ 22.271″ E 229 52° 49′
59.490″ N 1° 35′ 18.396″ E 497 52° 47′ 24.194″ N 2° 35′ 23.860″ E 230 52° 49′
59.209″ N 1° 35′ 20.797″ E 498 52° 47′ 23.509″ N 2° 35′ 25.523″ E 231 52° 49′
58.903″ N 1° 35′ 23.190″ E 499 52° 47′ 22.888″ N 2° 35′ 27.254″ E 232 52° 49′
58.573″ N 1° 35′ 25.573″ E 500 52° 47′ 22.334″ N 2° 35′ 29.046″ E 233 52° 49′
58.217″ N 1° 35′ 27.947″ E 501 52° 47′ 21.849″ N 2° 35′ 30.892″ E 234 52° 49′
57.836″ N 1° 35′ 30.310″ E 502 52° 47′ 21.436″ N 2° 35′ 32.784″ E 235 52° 49′
57.430″ N 1° 35′ 32.661″ E 503 52° 47′ 21.096″ N 2° 35′ 34.716″ E 236 52° 49′
56.999″ N 1° 35′ 35.001″ E 504 52° 47′ 20.829″ N 2° 35′ 36.678″ E 237 52° 49′
56.544″ N 1° 35′ 37.328″ E 505 52° 47′ 20.638″ N 2° 35′ 38.665″ E 238 52° 49′
56.064″ N 1° 35′ 39.641″ E 506 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 40.667″ E 239 52° 49′
55.560″ N 1° 35′ 41.940″ E 507 52° 47′ 20.485″ N 2° 35′ 42.678″ E 240 52° 49′
55.032″ N 1° 35′ 44.225″ E 508 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 44.688″ E 241 52° 49′
54.480″ N 1° 35′ 46.494″ E 509 52° 47′ 20.637″ N 2° 35′ 46.691″ E 242 52° 49′
53.904″ N 1° 35′ 48.746″ E 510 52° 47′ 20.743″ N 2° 35′ 47.801″ E 243 52° 49′
53.304″ N 1° 35′ 50.982″ E 511 52° 47′ 20.744″ N 2° 35′ 47.806″ E 244 52° 49′
52.681″ N 1° 35′ 53.200″ E 512 52° 47′ 21.786″ N 2° 35′ 56.101″ E 245 52° 49′
52.034″ N 1° 35′ 55.400″ E 513 52° 48′ 20.763″ N 2° 43′ 47.964″ E 246 52° 49′
51.868″ N 1° 35′ 55.943″ E 514 52° 48′ 21.026″ N 2° 43′ 49.928″ E 247 52° 48′
40.863″ N 1° 39′ 22.453″ E 515 52° 48′ 21.364″ N 2° 43′ 51.862″ E 248 52° 48′
40.702″ N 1° 39′ 22.924″ E 516 52° 48′ 21.774″ N 2° 43′ 53.756″ E 249 52° 48′
40.367″ N 1° 39′ 23.994″ E 517 52° 48′ 22.256″ N 2° 43′ 55.605″ E 250 52° 48′
40.234″ N 1° 39′ 24.393″ E 518 52° 48′ 22.808″ N 2° 43′ 57.400″ E 251 52° 48′
40.107″ N 1° 39′ 24.797″ E 519 52° 48′ 23.426″ N 2° 43′ 59.134″ E 252 52° 48′
39.560″ N 1° 39′ 26.596″ E 520 52° 48′ 24.109″ N 2° 44′ 0.800″ E 253 52° 48′
39.405″ N 1° 39′ 27.124″ E 521 52° 48′ 24.854″ N 2° 44′ 2.393″ E 254 52° 48′
39.261″ N 1° 39′ 27.661″ E 522 52° 48′ 25.659″ N 2° 44′ 3.905″ E 255 52° 48′
38.783″ N 1° 39′ 29.512″ E 523 52° 48′ 26.519″ N 2° 44′ 5.331″ E 256 52° 48′
38.649″ N 1° 39′ 30.055″ E 524 52° 48′ 27.432″ N 2° 44′ 6.665″ E 257 52° 48′
38.525″ N 1° 39′ 30.606″ E 525 52° 48′ 28.394″ N 2° 44′ 7.902″ E 258 52° 48′
38.044″ N 1° 39′ 32.861″ E 526 52° 48′ 29.401″ N 2° 44′ 9.037″ E 259 52° 48′
37.927″ N 1° 39′ 33.484″ E 527 52° 48′ 30.449″ N 2° 44′ 10.065″ E 260 52° 48′
37.569″ N 1° 39′ 35.557″ E 528 52° 48′ 31.534″ N 2° 44′ 10.983″ E 261 52° 48′
37.477″ N 1° 39′ 36.124″ E 529 52° 48′ 32.652″ N 2° 44′ 11.786″ E 262 52° 48′
37.396″ N 1° 39′ 36.696″ E 530 52° 48′ 33.799″ N 2° 44′ 12.472″ E 263 52° 48′
37.137″ N 1° 39′ 38.662″ E 531 52° 48′ 34.969″ N 2° 44′ 13.037″ E 264 52° 48′
37.067″ N 1° 39′ 39.237″ E 532 52° 48′ 36.158″ N 2° 44′ 13.481″ E 265 52° 48′
37.008″ N 1° 39′ 39.816″ E 533 52° 48′ 37.362″ N 2° 44′ 13.800″ E 266 52° 48′
36.824″ N 1° 39′ 41.805″ E 534 52° 48′ 38.576″ N 2° 44′ 13.994″ E 267 52° 48′
36.776″ N 1° 39′ 42.387″ E 535 52° 48′ 39.226″ N 2° 44′ 14.030″ E 268 52° 48′
36.739″ N 1° 39′ 42.971″ E 536 52° 51′ 27.631″ N 2° 44′ 14.043″ E

##### Details of Licensed Marine Activities

1

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 4, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

1.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of
Part 2 of this licence;

1.b

the construction of works in or over the sea and/or on or under the sea bed;

1.c

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

1.d

the disposal of up to 11,475,000 m 3  of inert material of natural origin
within the offshore Order limits produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre optic
cable) sandwave preparation works at disposal site references HU213, HU214,
HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS,
comprising—

1.d.i

9,000,000 m 3  for cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

1.d.ii

75,000 m 3  for the offshore electrical platforms;

1.d.iii

1,900,000 m 3  for the export cables (including fibre optic cables) within the
Order limits excluding the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of
Conservation; and

1.d.iv

500,000 m 3  for the export cables (including fibre optic cables) within the
part of the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation
that falls within the Order limits;

1.e

the removal of static fishing equipment; and

1.f

the disposal of drill arisings in connection with any foundation drilling up
to 14,137 m 3 .

2

2.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of—

2.2

Work No. 2   (phase 1)  – up to two offshore electrical platforms fixed to the
seabed within the area shown on the works plan by one of the following
foundation types: jacket (piled or suction caisson) or gravity base.

2.3

Work No. 3 (phase 1)  – a network of subsea cables and fibre optic cables
within the area shown on the works plan comprising Work No. 2 and for the
transmission of electricity and electronic communications between the offshore
electrical platforms including one or more cable crossings.

2.4

Work No. 4A (phase 1)  – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic
cables between Work No. 2 and Work No. 4B consisting of subsea cables and
fibre optic cables along routes within the Order limits seaward of MHWS
including one or more offshore cable crossings.

2.5

Work No . 4B (phase 1) – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic
cables between Work No. 4A and Work No. 4C consisting of subsea cables and
fibre optic cables along routes within the Order limits between MLWS and MHWS
at Happisburgh South, North Norfolk.

2.6

In connection with Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A and 4B and to the extent that they do
not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement and
the provisions of this licence.

2.7

In connection with Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A and 4B, ancillary works within the Order
limits which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment recorded
in the environmental statement comprising—

2.7.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

2.7.b

beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact protection
works.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platform forming part of the
authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 100 metres in height when measured from HAT, 120 metres in length and
80 metres in width.

1.2

In relation to an offshore electrical platform, each foundation using piles
must not have—

1.2.a

more than 18 driven piles; or

1.2.b

a pile diameter which is more than five metres.

2

In relation to the offshore electrical platform(s), the foundations must not
have a combined seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater
than 15,000m 2 . The total length of the cables and the area and volume of
their cable protection must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection (m 2  and m 3 ) Work No. 3 (Interconnector link)
150 kilometres 76,000m 2  38,000 m 3 Work No. 4A and 4B (export cable) 400
kilometres 102,086m 2  59,836 m 3

###### Phasing of the authorised scheme

3

3.1

Taken together with works authorised and proposed to be constructed pursuant
to licence 2 (transmission)—

3.1.a

the total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised scheme must not exceed two;

3.1.b

the total amount of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme must not exceed 20,000m 2  and 100,000 m
3 ; and

3.1.c

the total amount of inert material of natural origin disposed within the
offshore Order limits as part of the authorised scheme must not exceed
11,475,000 m 3 ;

3.1.d

the total amount of disposal for drill arisings in connection with any
foundation drilling must not exceed 14,137m 3 ;

3.1.e

the total length of cable and the amount of cable protection must not exceed
the figures stated in condition 2 of this licence; and

3.1.f

in the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation, the
total area of cable protection must not exceed 32,000m² and the total volume
of cable protection must not exceed 20,800m³.

3.2

Prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme the undertaker must give
notice to the MMO detailing—

3.2.a

whether the authorised scheme will be constructed—

3.2.a.i

in a single offshore phase under this licence; or

3.2.a.ii

in two offshore phases under this licence and licence 2 (transmission); and

3.2.b

where the authorised scheme will be constructed in two offshore phases, the
total number of offshore electrical platforms to be constructed in each phase.

###### Notifications and inspections

4

4.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

4.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

4.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
12; and

4.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 12; and

4.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the MMO
confirming receipt of this licence.

4.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 12 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

4.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

4.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

4.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

4.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

4.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

4.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

4.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to the commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them,
and within five days of completion of the licensed activities.

4.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

4.7.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

4.7.b

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours of completion of
construction of all offshore activities;

and confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

4.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least ten days prior to the
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them advising of the
start date of Work No. 2 and the expected vessel routes from the construction
ports to the relevant location. A second notice to mariners must be issued
advising of the start date of Work Nos. 3, 4A and 4B and the route of the sub-
sea cables and fibre optic cables. Copies of all notices must be provided to
the MMO, MCA and UKHO within five days.

4.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at weekly intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction and monitoring
programme approved under condition 9(1)(b). Copies of all notices must be
provided to the MMO and UKHO within five days.

4.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office both of the commencement
(within ten days), progress and completion of construction (within ten days)
of the licensed activities in order that all necessary amendments to nautical
charts are made and the undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to
the MMO within five days.

4.11

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS or any part thereof, the undertaker must as soon as reasonably
practicable and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware
of any such damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, the
Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish and the UK Hydrographic Office.

4.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days following identification of a potential cable exposure,
notify mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure. Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO and MCA within five days.

###### Aids to navigation

5

5.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and to take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

5.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS including the following—

5.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

5.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

5.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

5.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation as set out in the aids to navigation management plan agreed
pursuant to condition 9(1)(k) using the reporting system provided by Trinity
House.

5.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

5.5

In the event that the provisions of condition 4(11) and condition 4(12) are
invoked, the undertaker must lay down such marker buoys, exhibit such lights
and take such other steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by
Trinity House.

###### Colouring of structures

6

6.1

Except as otherwise required by Trinity House the undertaker must colour all
structures forming part of the authorised scheme yellow (colour code RAL 1023)
from at least HAT to a height directed by Trinity House, or must colour the
structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must paint the remainder of the structures submarine grey (colour
code RAL 7035).

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

7

7.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme must be selected from the List of
Notified Chemicals approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under
the Offshore Chemicals Regulations 2002  (as amended).

7.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

7.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

7.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under this licence. This information must be submitted
to the MMO by 15 February each year for the months August to January
inclusive, and by 15 August each year for the months February to July
inclusive.

7.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within disposal site references
HU213, HU214, HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of
MHWS. Any other materials must be screened out before disposal of the inert
material at this site.

7.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

7.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

7.8

The undertaker must undertake the survey agreed under condition 9(1)(h)(iii)
following the swath-bathymetry survey referred to in condition 15(2)(b).
Should any such obstructions resulting from burial of Work No. 4A or 4B
(export cables and fibre optic cables) be identified which, in the reasonable
opinion of the MMO, may be considered to interfere with fishing, the
undertaker must take such steps to remove them as the MMO in its reasonable
opinion may require.

7.9

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

7.10

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed under condition
14(1)(d)(i).

7.11

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within 24
hours of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

8

8.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to make a deposit which is not authorised
under this licence, whether within or outside of the Order limits, because the
safety of human life and/or of the vessel is threatened, within 48 hours the
undertaker must notify full details of the circumstances of the deposit to the
MMO.

8.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

9

9.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

9.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be agreed in
writing with the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which
shows, in accordance with the Development Principles—

9.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all offshore electrical
platforms;

9.1.a.ii

the height, length and width of all offshore electrical platforms;

9.1.a.iii

the length and arrangement of all cables (including fibre optic cables)
comprising Work Nos. 3, 4A and 4B;

9.1.a.iv

the dimensions of all foundations;

9.1.a.v

the proposed layout of all offshore electrical platforms including any
exclusion zones identified under sub-paragraph (1)(h)(iv);

9.1.a.vi

a plan showing the indicative layout of all offshore electrical platforms
including all exclusion zones (insofar as not shown in (v) above) and showing
the indicative programming of particular works as set out in the indicative
programme to be provided under sub-paragraph (1)(b)(iv); and

9.1.a.vii

any exclusion zones/micrositing requirements identified in any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph (1)(i);

to ensure conformity with the description of Works No. 2, 3, 4A and 4B and
compliance with conditions 1 to 3 above.

9.1.b

A construction programme and monitoring plan (which accords with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan) to include details of—

9.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

9.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

9.1.b.iii

proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format and content,
construction monitoring, post-construction surveys and monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(h) and conditions 12, 13, 14
and 15; and

9.1.b.iv

an indicative written construction programme for all offshore electrical
platforms and cables including fibre optic cables comprised in the works at
Part 3 (licensed marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar as not shown in
paragraph (ii) above);

with details pursuant to paragraph (iii) above to be submitted to the MMO in
accordance with the following—

9.1.b.aa

at least four months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed pre-construction monitoring;

9.1.b.bb

at least four months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;
and

9.1.b.cc

at least four months prior to commissioning, detail of post-construction (and
operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

9.1.c

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

9.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works and having regard to any mitigation scheme pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1)(i);

9.1.c.ii

soft start procedures with specified duration periods;

9.1.c.iii

offshore electrical platform location and installation, including scour
protection;

9.1.c.iv

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

9.1.c.v

contractors;

9.1.c.vi

vessels, vessels maintenance and vessels transit corridors; and

9.1.c.vii

associated and ancillary works.

9.1.d

A project environmental management plan (in accordance with the outline
project environmental management plan) covering the period of construction and
operation to include details of—

9.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

9.1.d.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

9.1.d.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

9.1.d.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer; and

9.1.d.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan (which accords with the outline
fisheries liaison and co-existence plan) to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 4 and to
address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities.

9.1.e

A scour protection and cable protection plan (in accordance with the outline
scour protection and cable protection plan) providing details of the need,
type, sources, quantity, distribution and installation methods for scour
protection and cable (including fibre optic cable) protection. For the
avoidance of doubt “distribution” in this sub-paragraph must include
quantities in respect of each structure comprised in the offshore works and
intended to be subject to scour protection.

9.1.f

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a marine mammal
mitigation protocol, in accordance with the draft marine mammal mitigation
protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals and
following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature
conservation bodies.

9.1.g

A cable specification, installation and monitoring plan, for the installation
and protection of cables outside of the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton
Special Area of Conservation, to include—

9.1.g.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cable) below
MHWS, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of electro-magnetic
field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in accordance with industry
good practice;

9.1.g.ii

a detailed cable (including fibre optic cable) laying plan for the Order
limits, incorporating a burial risk assessment to ascertain suitable burial
depths and cable laying techniques, including cable landfall and cable
protection measures;

9.1.g.iii

proposals for monitoring offshore cables including cable (including fibre
optic cable) protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised
scheme which includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or
shallow buried cables; and

9.1.g.iv

appropriate methods such as a trawl or drift net to be deployed along Work No.
4A and 4B (export cables and fibre optic cables), following the survey
referred to in condition 15(2)(b) to assess any seabed obstructions resulting
from burial of the export cables and fibre optic cables.

9.1.h

An archaeological written scheme of investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean low water, which must accord with the outline
written scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in
consultation with the statutory historic body (and, if relevant, North Norfolk
District Council) to include—

9.1.h.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

9.1.h.ii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

9.1.h.iii

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

9.1.h.iv

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

9.1.h.v

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction;

9.1.h.vi

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (Online Access to the
Index of archaeological investigations) form with a digital copy of the report
within six months of completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and
to notify the MMO (and North Norfolk District Council where the report relates
to the intertidal area) that the OASIS form has been submitted to the National
Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of submission;

9.1.h.vii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

9.1.h.viii

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order Limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

9.1.i

A mitigation scheme for any habitats of principal importance identified by the
survey referred to in condition 13(2)(a) and in accordance with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan.

9.1.j

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
four months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

9.1.k

An aids to navigation management plan to be agreed in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 5 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

9.1.l

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a site integrity
plan which accords with the principles set out in the in principle Norfolk
Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan ,
and which the MMO is satisfied would provide such mitigation as is necessary
to avoid adversely affecting the integrity (within the meaning of the 2017
Regulations) of a relevant site, to the extent that harbour porpoise are a
protected feature of that site.

9.2

Pre-commencement surveys and archaeological investigations and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of investigation
which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the outline offshore
written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO.

9.3

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed 5,000 KJ.

10

10.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition 9(1)(h)(iii)
must be agreed with the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body
(and, if relevant, North Norfolk District Council).

10.2

The design plan required by condition 9(1)(a) must be prepared by the
undertaker and determined by the MMO in accordance with the Development
Principles.

10.3

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 9 must be submitted for approval at least four months prior to
the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

10.4

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 9.

10.5

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker, the MMO must use
reasonable endeavours to determine an application for approval made under
condition 9 as soon as practicable and in any event within a period of four
months commencing on the date the application is received by the MMO.

10.6

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the plans,
protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 9, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

10.7

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the project, adequately
addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised scheme
contained within MGN543 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations (OREIs) –
Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response Issues”
and its annexes.

###### Post-construction plans and documents

11

The undertaker must conduct a swath bathymetric survey to IHO S44ed5 Order 1a
across the area(s) within the Order limits in which construction works were
carried out and provide the data and survey report(s) to the MCA and UKHO.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

12

12.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

12.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

12.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

12.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

13

13.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed
format and content for a pre-construction baseline report; and—

13.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

13.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

13.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

13.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine the location and extent of any benthic
communities/benthos constituting Annex 1 reef habitats of principal importance
in whole or in part inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is
proposed to carry out construction works; and

13.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a, and side scan sonar, of the area(s) within the Order
limits in which it is proposed to carry out construction works.

13.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

14

14.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In the event that driven or part-driven pile
foundations are proposed, such monitoring must include measurements of noise
generated by the installation of the first four piled foundations of each
piled foundation type to be installed unless the MMO otherwise agrees in
writing.

14.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

14.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required.  If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with Natural England, the assessment shows significantly
different impacts to those assessed in the environmental statement or failures
in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an update to the  marine
mammal mitigation protocol  and further monitoring requirements have been
agreed.

14.4

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, details submitted
in accordance with the in principle monitoring plan must include proposals for
monitoring marine mammals.

###### Post construction

15

15.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

15.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

15.2.a

a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and composition of
any benthic habitats of conservation, ecological and/or economic importance
constituting Annex 1 reef habitats identified in the pre-construction survey
in the parts of the Order limits in which construction works were carried out.
The survey design must be informed by the results of the pre-construction
benthic survey;

15.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one full sea
floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements of IHO
S44ed5 Order 1a across the area(s) within the Order limits in which
construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables including fibre optic cables have been buried or protected;
and

15.2.c

or contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in principle
monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 9(1)(b).

15.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

15.4

Following installation of cables, the cable (including fibre optic cables)
monitoring plan required under condition 9(1)(g)(iii) must be updated with the
results of the post installation surveys. The plan must be implemented during
the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme and reviewed as specified
within the plan, following cable burial surveys, or as instructed by the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

16

16.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the UK Marine Noise Registry—

16.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licensed activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the
Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

16.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

16.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

16.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph (1) above within 7 days of the
submission.

16.3

For the purpose of this condition—

“ Marine Noise Registry ” means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas; and “Forward Look” and
“Close Out” requirements are as set out in the UK Marine Noise Registry
Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated information
document.

###### Reporting of scour and cable protection

17

17.1

Not more than 4 months following completion of the construction phase of the
authorised scheme, the undertaker must provide the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies with a report setting out details of the
cable protection and scour protection used for the authorised scheme.

17.2

The report must include the following information—

17.2.a

location of the cable protection and scour protection;

17.2.b

volume of cable protection and scour protection; and

17.2.c

any other information relating to the cable protection as agreed between the
MMO and the undertaker.

###### Restriction on cable installation construction works

18

During the months of January to March inclusive, construction activities
consisting of cable installation for Work No. 4A and Work No. 4B must only
take place with one main cable laying vessel.

Deemed Licence under the 2009 Act – Transmission Assets (Licence 2 – Phase 2)

Article 32

##### Interpretation

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access Act
2009; “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Offshore Marine
Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ authorised deposits ” means the
substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of Part 2 of this licence; “
authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A, and 4B described in Part 3 of
this licence or any part of that work; “ cable protection ” means measures for
offshore cable crossings and where cable burial is not possible due to ground
conditions or approaching offshore structures, to protect cables and fibre
optic cables and prevent loss of seabed sediment by use of grout bags,
protective aprons, mattresses, flow energy dissipation (frond) devices or rock
and gravel dumping; “ commence ” means the first carrying out of any part of
the licensed activities save for pre-construction surveys and monitoring and “
commenced ” and “ commencement ” must be construed accordingly; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 4 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ Development Principles ”
means the document certified as the Development Principles by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order; “ draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal mitigation protocol
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ enforcement
officer ” means a person authorised to carry out enforcement duties under
Chapter 3 of the 2009 Act; “ environmental statement ” means the document
certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order; “ gravity base system ” means a structure principally
of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on the seabed either due
to its own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and
associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece,
corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access
systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “ HAT ”
means highest astronomical tide; “ in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern
North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan ” means the
document certified as the in principle Norfolk Vanguard Southern North Sea
Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order; “ jacket foundation ” means a steel jacket/
lattice-type structure constructed of steel which is fixed to the seabed at
three or more points with steel pin piles or steel suction caissons and
associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, transition piece,
corrosion protection systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, boat access
systems, access ladders and access and rest platform(s) and equipment; “
Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the bulletin published by the Humber
Seafood Institute or such other alternative publication approved in writing by
the MMO for the purposes of this licence; “ licence 1 (transmission) ” means
the licence set out in Schedule 11 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act –
transmission assets (licence 1 – phase 1)); “ licensed activities ” means the
activities specified in Part 3 of this licence; “ maintain ” includes inspect,
upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and further includes remove, reconstruct and
replace (but only in relation to any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of
Schedule 1 (ancillary works), any cable and any component part of any wind
turbine generator, offshore electrical platform, accommodation platform or
meteorological mast described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development)
not including the alteration, removal or replacement of foundations), to the
extent assessed in the environmental statement; and “maintenance” is construed
accordingly; “Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the body
created under the 2009 Act which is responsible for the monitoring and
enforcement of this licence; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency;
“mean high water springs” or “ MHWS ” means the highest level which spring
tides reach on average over a period of time; “ meteorological mast ” means a
mast housing equipment to measure wind speed and other wind characteristics,
including a topside housing electrical, communication and associated equipment
and marking and lighting; “ notice to mariners ” means a notice issued by the
undertaker to mariners to inform them of issues that affect the safety of
navigation; “ offshore cables ” means any cables offshore; “ offshore
electrical platform ” means a platform attached to the seabed by means of a
foundation, with one or more decks, whether open or fully clad, accommodating
electrical power transformers, switchgear, instrumentation, protection and
control systems and other associated equipment and facilities to enable the
transmission of electronic communications and for electricity to be collected
at, and exported from, the platform; “ offshore in principle monitoring plan ”
means the document certified as the offshore in principle monitoring plan by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ offshore Order limits
” means the limits shown on the works plan within which the authorised scheme
may be carried out, whose grid coordinates are set out in Part 2 of this
licence; “ the Order ” means the Norfolk Vanguard Offshore Wind Farm Order
2022; “ outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan ” means the document
certified as the outline fisheries liaison and co-existence plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ outline offshore
operations and maintenance plan ” means the document certified as the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order; “ outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) ”
means the document certified as the outline written scheme of investigation
(offshore) by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order; “ pin
piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to
secure steel jacket foundations; “ relevant site ” means a European offshore
marine site or a European site as defined in the 2017 Regulations; “ scour
protection ” means measures to prevent loss of seabed sediment around any
marine structure placed in or on the seabed by use of protective aprons,
mattresses with or without frond devices, or rock and gravel placement. “
single offshore phase ” means carrying out all offshore works as a single
construction operation; “ statutory historic body ” means Historic Buildings
and Monuments Commission for England (Historic England) or its successor in
function; “ statutory nature conservation body ” means an organisation charged
by government with advising on nature conservation matters; “ suction caisson
” means a large diameter steel cylindrical shell which penetrates the seabed
assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential for fixity of foundations; “
Trinity House ” means the Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “
two offshore phases ” means carrying out the offshore works as two separate
construction operations; “ UK Hydrographic Office ” means the UK Hydrographic
Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN; “ undertaker ” means
Norfolk Vanguard Limited (Company No. 08141115) whose registered office is at
5th Floor, 70 St Mary Axe, London EC3A 8BE; “ vessel ” means every description
of vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft,
a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil
vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing
constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is
at the time in, on or over water; “Work No. 4C” means the onshore transmission
works at the landfall consisting of up to two transition jointing pits and up
to four cables to be laid in ducts underground and associated fibre optic
cables laid within cable ducts from MHWS at Happisburgh South, North Norfolk;
and “ works plan ” means the plan certified as the works plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of the Order.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT); and

1.3.b

all co-ordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary points of contact with the organisations listed below and the
addresses for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Lowestoft Office

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 573 149;

1.4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

1.4.f

Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 01502 562 244;

1.4.g

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.h

Historic England

Cannon Bridge

House 25

Dowgate Hill

London

EC4R 2YA

Tel: 020 7973 3700

##### Licensed Marine Activities – General

1

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 (approval of decommissioning programmes) of the 2004
Act, including any modification to the programme under section 108, and the
completion of such programme has been confirmed by the Secretary of State in
writing.

2

The provisions of section 72 (variation, suspension, revocation and transfer)
of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that the provisions of section
72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the licence only apply to a transfer
not falling within article 6 (benefit of the Order).

3

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this Schedule, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

4

Any amendments to or variations from the approved plans, protocols or
statements must be minor or immaterial and it must be demonstrated to the
satisfaction of the MMO that they are unlikely to give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement.

5

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

5.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

5.b

stone and rock;

5.c

concrete;

5.d

sand and gravel;

5.e

plastic and synthetic;

5.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre
optic cable) sandwave preparation works; and

5.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

6

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) Point Latitude (DMS) Longitude (DMS) 1
52° 55′ 0.308″ N 3° 4′ 42.589″ E 269 52° 48′ 36.617″ N 1° 39′ 45.198″ E 2 52°
49′ 53.975″ N 3° 5′ 22.789″ E 270 52° 48′ 36.608″ N 1° 39′ 45.442″ E 3 52° 46′
19.050″ N 3° 2′ 16.682″ E 271 52° 48′ 36.111″ N 1° 39′ 58.227″ E 4 52° 45′
10.584″ N 2° 45′ 33.989″ E 272 52° 47′ 53.162″ N 1° 57′ 17.842″ E 5 52° 51′
41.636″ N 2° 45′ 34.220″ E 273 52° 47′ 51.688″ N 1° 57′ 48.405″ E 6 53° 2′
36.817″ N 2° 34′ 16.309″ E 274 52° 47′ 50.436″ N 1° 58′ 0.642″ E 7 52° 49′
38.834″ N 2° 34′ 15.809″ E 275 52° 47′ 48.214″ N 1° 58′ 12.320″ E 8 52° 48′
47.472″ N 2° 33′ 28.343″ E 276 52° 47′ 42.495″ N 1° 58′ 33.820″ E 9 52° 48′
3.133″ N 2° 26′ 37.427″ E 277 52° 47′ 36.793″ N 1° 58′ 49.157″ E 10 52° 56′
9.089″ N 2° 18′ 33.231″ E 278 52° 47′ 27.713″ N 1° 59′ 7.719″ E 11 52° 45′
11.467″ N 2° 45′ 30.454″ E 279 52° 47′ 19.963″ N 1° 59′ 19.409″ E 12 52° 45′
11.943″ N 2° 45′ 28.711″ E 280 52° 47′ 10.581″ N 1° 59′ 30.409″ E 13 52° 45′
12.967″ N 2° 45′ 25.281″ E 281 52° 45′ 3.401″ N 2° 1′ 51.874″ E 14 52° 45′
14.081″ N 2° 45′ 21.928″ E 282 52° 45′ 3.127″ N 2° 1′ 52.189″ E 15 52° 45′
15.285″ N 2° 45′ 18.661″ E 283 52° 45′ 2.287″ N 2° 1′ 53.183″ E 16 52° 45′
15.920″ N 2° 45′ 17.061″ E 284 52° 45′ 1.635″ N 2° 1′ 53.925″ E 17 52° 45′
17.254″ N 2° 45′ 13.933″ E 285 52° 45′ 1.351″ N 2° 1′ 54.277″ E 18 52° 45′
17.952″ N 2° 45′ 12.407″ E 286 52° 45′ 0.388″ N 2° 1′ 55.510″ E 19 52° 45′
19.409″ N 2° 45′ 9.432″ E 287 52° 45′ 0.110″ N 2° 1′ 55.877″ E 20 52° 45′
20.533″ N 2° 45′ 7.335″ E 288 52° 44′ 59.840″ N 2° 1′ 56.258″ E 21 52° 45′
20.944″ N 2° 45′ 6.567″ E 289 52° 44′ 58.926″ N 2° 1′ 57.587″ E 22 52° 45′
21.741″ N 2° 45′ 5.178″ E 290 52° 44′ 58.663″ N 2° 1′ 57.982″ E 23 52° 45′
23.389″ N 2° 45′ 2.488″ E 291 52° 44′ 58.407″ N 2° 1′ 58.390″ E 24 52° 45′
24.240″ N 2° 45′ 1.188″ E 292 52° 44′ 57.545″ N 2° 1′ 59.812″ E 25 52° 45′
25.993″ N 2° 44′ 58.685″ E 293 52° 44′ 57.298″ N 2° 2′ 0.233″ E 26 52° 45′
27.812″ N 2° 44′ 56.313″ E 294 52° 44′ 57.059″ N 2° 2′ 0.667″ E 27 52° 45′
29.693″ N 2° 44′ 54.076″ E 295 52° 44′ 56.253″ N 2° 2′ 2.175″ E 28 52° 45′
31.632″ N 2° 44′ 51.980″ E 296 52° 44′ 56.022″ N 2° 2′ 2.621″ E 29 52° 45′
32.623″ N 2° 44′ 50.985″ E 297 52° 44′ 55.800″ N 2° 2′ 3.078″ E 30 52° 45′
33.626″ N 2° 44′ 50.027″ E 298 52° 44′ 55.053″ N 2° 2′ 4.667″ E 31 52° 45′
35.671″ N 2° 44′ 48.223″ E 299 52° 44′ 54.839″ N 2° 2′ 5.136″ E 32 52° 45′
37.763″ N 2° 44′ 46.570″ E 300 52° 44′ 54.635″ N 2° 2′ 5.615″ E 33 52° 45′
39.897″ N 2° 44′ 45.071″ E 301 52° 44′ 53.950″ N 2° 2′ 7.278″ E 34 52° 45′
42.069″ N 2° 44′ 43.731″ E 302 52° 44′ 53.755″ N 2° 2′ 7.768″ E 35 52° 45′
43.168″ N 2° 44′ 43.121″ E 303 52° 44′ 53.569″ N 2° 2′ 8.268″ E 36 52° 45′
44.275″ N 2° 44′ 42.551″ E 304 52° 44′ 52.949″ N 2° 2′ 9.998″ E 37 52° 45′
46.511″ N 2° 44′ 41.534″ E 305 52° 44′ 52.773″ N 2° 2′ 10.507″ E 38 52° 45′
47.638″ N 2° 44′ 41.087″ E 306 52° 44′ 52.607″ N 2° 2′ 11.025″ E 39 52° 45′
48.833″ N 2° 44′ 40.681″ E 307 52° 44′ 52.053″ N 2° 2′ 12.816″ E 40 52° 46′
9.781″ N 2° 44′ 40.687″ E 308 52° 44′ 51.897″ N 2° 2′ 13.343″ E 41 52° 46′
46.724″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 309 52° 44′ 51.751″ N 2° 2′ 13.877″ E 42 52° 46′
48.173″ N 2° 44′ 40.696″ E 310 52° 44′ 51.267″ N 2° 2′ 15.722″ E 43 52° 46′
52.974″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 311 52° 44′ 51.131″ N 2° 2′ 16.263″ E 44 52° 46′
55.152″ N 2° 44′ 40.698″ E 312 52° 44′ 51.006″ N 2° 2′ 16.812″ E 45 52° 46′
57.976″ N 2° 44′ 40.699″ E 313 52° 44′ 50.593″ N 2° 2′ 18.703″ E 46 52° 47′
0.395″ N 2° 44′ 40.053″ E 314 52° 44′ 50.478″ N 2° 2′ 19.257″ E 47 52° 47′
1.558″ N 2° 44′ 39.624″ E 315 52° 44′ 50.373″ N 2° 2′ 19.818″ E 48 52° 47′
1.970″ N 2° 44′ 39.479″ E 316 52° 44′ 50.034″ N 2° 2′ 21.747″ E 49 52° 47′
2.003″ N 2° 44′ 39.463″ E 317 52° 44′ 49.940″ N 2° 2′ 22.313″ E 50 52° 47′
3.144″ N 2° 44′ 38.936″ E 318 52° 44′ 49.857″ N 2° 2′ 22.883″ E 51 52° 47′
4.295″ N 2° 44′ 38.272″ E 319 52° 44′ 49.592″ N 2° 2′ 24.844″ E 52 52° 47′
4.681″ N 2° 44′ 38.004″ E 320 52° 44′ 49.520″ N 2° 2′ 25.418″ E 53 52° 47′
4.998″ N 2° 44′ 37.816″ E 321 52° 44′ 49.459″ N 2° 2′ 25.996″ E 54 52° 47′
5.524″ N 2° 44′ 37.450″ E 322 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 2′ 27.980″ E 55 52° 47′
6.616″ N 2° 44′ 36.554″ E 323 52° 44′ 49.218″ N 2° 2′ 28.561″ E 56 52° 47′
7.671″ N 2° 44′ 35.546″ E 324 52° 44′ 49.179″ N 2° 2′ 29.143″ E 57 52° 47′
8.686″ N 2° 44′ 34.431″ E 325 52° 44′ 49.065″ N 2° 2′ 31.144″ E 58 52° 47′
9.657″ N 2° 44′ 33.214″ E 326 52° 44′ 49.037″ N 2° 2′ 31.728″ E 59 52° 47′
10.579″ N 2° 44′ 31.898″ E 327 52° 44′ 49.021″ N 2° 2′ 32.314″ E 60 52° 47′
11.449″ N 2° 44′ 30.489″ E 328 52° 44′ 48.989″ N 2° 2′ 34.021″ E 61 52° 47′
12.264″ N 2° 44′ 28.993″ E 329 52° 44′ 48.983″ N 2° 2′ 34.638″ E 62 52° 47′
13.021″ N 2° 44′ 27.415″ E 330 52° 44′ 49.220″ N 2° 15′ 49.970″ E 63 52° 47′
13.715″ N 2° 44′ 25.762″ E 331 52° 44′ 49.236″ N 2° 15′ 51.345″ E 64 52° 47′
14.346″ N 2° 44′ 24.040″ E 332 52° 44′ 49.268″ N 2° 15′ 53.169″ E 65 52° 47′
14.910″ N 2° 44′ 22.257″ E 333 52° 44′ 49.284″ N 2° 15′ 53.754″ E 66 52° 47′
15.404″ N 2° 44′ 20.418″ E 334 52° 44′ 49.311″ N 2° 15′ 54.339″ E 67 52° 47′
15.784″ N 2° 44′ 18.728″ E 335 52° 44′ 49.422″ N 2° 15′ 56.340″ E 68 52° 47′
15.918″ N 2° 44′ 18.041″ E 336 52° 44′ 49.460″ N 2° 15′ 56.922″ E 69 52° 47′
16.179″ N 2° 44′ 16.606″ E 337 52° 44′ 49.509″ N 2° 15′ 57.503″ E 70 52° 47′
16.456″ N 2° 44′ 14.647″ E 338 52° 44′ 49.680″ N 2° 15′ 59.308″ E 71 52° 47′
16.520″ N 2° 44′ 14.023″ E 339 52° 44′ 49.731″ N 2° 15′ 59.809″ E 72 52° 47′
16.658″ N 2° 44′ 12.664″ E 340 52° 44′ 49.791″ N 2° 16′ 0.309″ E 73 52° 47′
16.784″ N 2° 44′ 10.663″ E 341 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 74 52° 47′
16.834″ N 2° 44′ 8.653″ E 342 52° 44′ 51.112″ N 2° 16′ 10.573″ E 75 52° 47′
16.807″ N 2° 44′ 6.642″ E 343 52° 45′ 49.555″ N 2° 23′ 47.080″ E 76 52° 47′
16.703″ N 2° 44′ 4.638″ E 344 52° 45′ 49.556″ N 2° 23′ 47.093″ E 77 52° 47′
16.559″ N 2° 44′ 3.046″ E 345 52° 45′ 49.762″ N 2° 23′ 48.593″ E 78 52° 47′
15.589″ N 2° 43′ 55.247″ E 346 52° 45′ 50.105″ N 2° 23′ 50.522″ E 79 52° 47′
14.341″ N 2° 43′ 45.216″ E 347 52° 45′ 50.521″ N 2° 23′ 52.412″ E 80 52° 47′
13.615″ N 2° 43′ 39.381″ E 348 52° 45′ 51.008″ N 2° 23′ 54.255″ E 81 52° 47′
13.538″ N 2° 43′ 38.765″ E 349 52° 45′ 51.565″ N 2° 23′ 56.044″ E 82 52° 43′
46.039″ N 2° 16′ 19.075″ E 350 52° 45′ 52.188″ N 2° 23′ 57.772″ E 83 52° 43′
45.182″ N 2° 16′ 10.004″ E 351 52° 45′ 52.876″ N 2° 23′ 59.431″ E 84 52° 43′
44.634″ N 2° 16′ 0.162″ E 352 52° 45′ 53.626″ N 2° 24′ 1.017″ E 85 52° 43′
44.531″ N 2° 15′ 54.221″ E 353 52° 45′ 54.434″ N 2° 24′ 2.521″ E 86 52° 43′
44.490″ N 2° 15′ 51.462″ E 354 52° 45′ 55.299″ N 2° 24′ 3.939″ E 87 52° 43′
44.512″ N 2° 7′ 23.550″ E 355 52° 45′ 56.215″ N 2° 24′ 5.265″ E 88 52° 42′
44.166″ N 2° 3′ 14.512″ E 356 52° 45′ 57.180″ N 2° 24′ 6.493″ E 89 52° 42′
43.152″ N 2° 3′ 9.802″ E 357 52° 45′ 58.191″ N 2° 24′ 7.619″ E 90 52° 42′
42.369″ N 2° 3′ 4.946″ E 358 52° 45′ 59.242″ N 2° 24′ 8.639″ E 91 52° 42′
31.534″ N 2° 1′ 44.644″ E 359 52° 46′ 0.330″ N 2° 24′ 9.547″ E 92 52° 42′
31.056″ N 2° 1′ 40.338″ E 360 52° 46′ 1.450″ N 2° 24′ 10.341″ E 93 52° 42′
30.948″ N 2° 1′ 39.044″ E 361 52° 46′ 2.598″ N 2° 24′ 11.017″ E 94 52° 42′
30.701″ N 2° 1′ 34.686″ E 362 52° 46′ 3.770″ N 2° 24′ 11.573″ E 95 52° 42′
30.654″ N 2° 1′ 30.309″ E 363 52° 46′ 4.960″ N 2° 24′ 12.007″ E 96 52° 42′
30.675″ N 2° 1′ 29.003″ E 364 52° 46′ 6.165″ N 2° 24′ 12.317″ E 97 52° 42′
30.833″ N 2° 1′ 25.173″ E 365 52° 46′ 7.380″ N 2° 24′ 12.501″ E 98 52° 42′
33.173″ N 2° 0′ 49.768″ E 366 52° 46′ 8.022″ N 2° 24′ 12.532″ E 99 52° 42′
34.216″ N 2° 0′ 40.941″ E 367 52° 46′ 9.762″ N 2° 24′ 12.670″ E 100 52° 42′
34.439″ N 2° 0′ 39.649″ E 368 52° 50′ 9.656″ N 2° 24′ 31.707″ E 101 52° 42′
35.302″ N 2° 0′ 35.379″ E 369 52° 51′ 3.549″ N 2° 34′ 15.864″ E 102 52° 42′
41.649″ N 2° 0′ 7.655″ E 370 52° 51′ 3.486″ N 2° 34′ 19.188″ E 103 52° 42′
43.788″ N 2° 0′ 0.073″ E 371 52° 51′ 3.295″ N 2° 34′ 22.530″ E 104 52° 42′
44.149″ N 1° 59′ 59.016″ E 372 52° 51′ 2.978″ N 2° 34′ 25.846″ E 105 52° 42′
45.445″ N 1° 59′ 55.557″ E 373 52° 51′ 2.535″ N 2° 34′ 29.122″ E 106 52° 42′
55.437″ N 1° 59′ 30.877″ E 374 52° 51′ 1.968″ N 2° 34′ 32.346″ E 107 52° 42′
55.855″ N 1° 59′ 29.924″ E 375 52° 51′ 1.280″ N 2° 34′ 35.504″ E 108 52° 42′
58.378″ N 1° 59′ 24.593″ E 376 52° 51′ 0.473″ N 2° 34′ 38.585″ E 109 52° 42′
58.842″ N 1° 59′ 23.685″ E 377 52° 50′ 59.551″ N 2° 34′ 41.577″ E 110 52° 43′
0.673″ N 1° 59′ 20.588″ E 378 52° 50′ 58.516″ N 2° 34′ 44.466″ E 111 52° 43′
2.861″ N 1° 59′ 17.394″ E 379 52° 50′ 57.374″ N 2° 34′ 47.243″ E 112 52° 43′
17.859″ N 1° 58′ 57.179″ E 380 52° 50′ 56.129″ N 2° 34′ 49.896″ E 113 52° 43′
19.625″ N 1° 58′ 54.953″ E 381 52° 50′ 54.785″ N 2° 34′ 52.414″ E 114 52° 43′
21.284″ N 1° 58′ 53.106″ E 382 52° 50′ 53.348″ N 2° 34′ 54.787″ E 115 52° 43′
21.796″ N 1° 58′ 52.576″ E 383 52° 50′ 51.823″ N 2° 34′ 57.007″ E 116 52° 43′
23.547″ N 1° 58′ 50.895″ E 384 52° 50′ 50.218″ N 2° 34′ 59.065″ E 117 52° 45′
46.103″ N 1° 56′ 43.184″ E 385 52° 50′ 48.537″ N 2° 35′ 0.952″ E 118 52° 46′
2.160″ N 1° 56′ 27.260″ E 386 52° 50′ 46.788″ N 2° 35′ 2.661″ E 119 52° 46′
3.532″ N 1° 56′ 26.078″ E 387 52° 50′ 44.977″ N 2° 35′ 4.185″ E 120 52° 46′
17.577″ N 1° 56′ 12.146″ E 388 52° 50′ 43.112″ N 2° 35′ 5.518″ E 121 52° 46′
37.038″ N 1° 55′ 33.566″ E 389 52° 50′ 41.200″ N 2° 35′ 6.655″ E 122 52° 46′
51.513″ N 1° 54′ 38.977″ E 390 52° 50′ 39.248″ N 2° 35′ 7.591″ E 123 52° 46′
58.151″ N 1° 53′ 21.115″ E 391 52° 50′ 37.265″ N 2° 35′ 8.323″ E 124 52° 46′
59.490″ N 1° 52′ 52.341″ E 392 52° 50′ 33.492″ N 2° 35′ 9.272″ E 125 52° 47′
32.039″ N 1° 39′ 38.159″ E 393 52° 50′ 32.920″ N 2° 35′ 9.346″ E 126 52° 47′
32.129″ N 1° 39′ 36.152″ E 394 52° 46′ 31.498″ N 2° 26′ 1.301″ E 127 52° 47′
32.273″ N 1° 39′ 33.526″ E 395 52° 46′ 31.407″ N 2° 26′ 1.294″ E 128 52° 47′
32.388″ N 1° 39′ 31.565″ E 396 52° 46′ 31.505″ N 2° 26′ 1.330″ E 129 52° 47′
32.521″ N 1° 39′ 29.607″ E 397 52° 46′ 30.476″ N 2° 26′ 1.280″ E 130 52° 47′
32.673″ N 1° 39′ 27.652″ E 398 52° 46′ 29.257″ N 2° 26′ 1.347″ E 131 52° 47′
32.844″ N 1° 39′ 25.702″ E 399 52° 46′ 28.043″ N 2° 26′ 1.540″ E 132 52° 47′
33.028″ N 1° 39′ 23.714″ E 400 52° 46′ 26.839″ N 2° 26′ 1.859″ E 133 52° 47′
33.217″ N 1° 39′ 21.768″ E 401 52° 46′ 25.650″ N 2° 26′ 2.301″ E 134 52° 47′
33.425″ N 1° 39′ 19.828″ E 402 52° 46′ 24.480″ N 2° 26′ 2.866″ E 135 52° 47′
33.652″ N 1° 39′ 17.893″ E 403 52° 46′ 23.333″ N 2° 26′ 3.551″ E 136 52° 47′
33.896″ N 1° 39′ 15.964″ E 404 52° 46′ 22.215″ N 2° 26′ 4.353″ E 137 52° 47′
34.155″ N 1° 39′ 13.999″ E 405 52° 46′ 21.130″ N 2° 26′ 5.269″ E 138 52° 47′
34.419″ N 1° 39′ 12.073″ E 406 52° 46′ 20.230″ N 2° 26′ 6.150″ E 139 52° 47′
34.701″ N 1° 39′ 10.153″ E 407 52° 46′ 20.081″ N 2° 26′ 6.296″ E 140 52° 47′
35.001″ N 1° 39′ 8.241″ E 408 52° 46′ 19.074″ N 2° 26′ 7.430″ E 141 52° 47′
35.320″ N 1° 39′ 6.337″ E 409 52° 46′ 18.112″ N 2° 26′ 8.665″ E 142 52° 47′
35.827″ N 1° 39′ 3.397″ E 410 52° 46′ 17.199″ N 2° 26′ 9.998″ E 143 52° 47′
36.193″ N 1° 39′ 1.398″ E 411 52° 46′ 16.338″ N 2° 26′ 11.422″ E 144 52° 47′
36.599″ N 1° 38′ 59.313″ E 412 52° 46′ 15.534″ N 2° 26′ 12.933″ E 145 52° 47′
37.000″ N 1° 38′ 57.371″ E 413 52° 46′ 14.788″ N 2° 26′ 14.524″ E 146 52° 47′
37.497″ N 1° 38′ 55.056″ E 414 52° 46′ 14.105″ N 2° 26′ 16.189″ E 147 52° 47′
37.906″ N 1° 38′ 53.193″ E 415 52° 46′ 13.486″ N 2° 26′ 17.921″ E 148 52° 47′
38.332″ N 1° 38′ 51.340″ E 416 52° 46′ 12.935″ N 2° 26′ 19.714″ E 149 52° 47′
38.777″ N 1° 38′ 49.499″ E 417 52° 46′ 12.453″ N 2° 26′ 21.561″ E 150 52° 47′
39.239″ N 1° 38′ 47.670″ E 418 52° 46′ 12.042″ N 2° 26′ 23.454″ E 151 52° 48′
59.902″ N 1° 33′ 32.091″ E 419 52° 46′ 11.704″ N 2° 26′ 25.386″ E 152 52° 49′
1.602″ N 1° 33′ 25.973″ E 420 52° 46′ 11.440″ N 2° 26′ 27.349″ E 153 52° 49′
2.819″ N 1° 33′ 19.121″ E 421 52° 46′ 11.252″ N 2° 26′ 29.335″ E 154 52° 49′
3.674″ N 1° 33′ 13.073″ E 422 52° 46′ 11.139″ N 2° 26′ 31.337″ E 155 52° 49′
3.797″ N 1° 33′ 6.096″ E 423 52° 46′ 11.103″ N 2° 26′ 33.346″ E 156 52° 49′
2.898″ N 1° 32′ 57.549″ E 424 52° 46′ 11.144″ N 2° 26′ 35.356″ E 157 52° 49′
4.139″ N 1° 32′ 54.271″ E 425 52° 46′ 11.261″ N 2° 26′ 37.357″ E 158 52° 49′
4.845″ N 1° 32′ 52.212″ E 426 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.780″ E 159 52° 49′
5.188″ N 1° 32′ 51.467″ E 427 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.781″ E 160 52° 49′
6.147″ N 1° 32′ 49.575″ E 428 52° 46′ 11.399″ N 2° 26′ 38.782″ E 161 52° 49′
7.035″ N 1° 32′ 47.473″ E 429 52° 47′ 4.976″ N 2° 33′ 42.433″ E 162 52° 49′
7.208″ N 1° 32′ 46.999″ E 430 52° 47′ 5.398″ N 2° 33′ 45.780″ E 163 52° 49′
8.015″ N 1° 32′ 44.486″ E 431 52° 47′ 6.051″ N 2° 33′ 50.967″ E 164 52° 49′
8.663″ N 1° 32′ 42.319″ E 432 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 165 52° 49′
8.910″ N 1° 32′ 41.417″ E 433 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.472″ E 166 52° 49′
9.102″ N 1° 32′ 41.019″ E 434 52° 47′ 6.366″ N 2° 33′ 53.473″ E 167 52° 49′
9.635″ N 1° 32′ 40.648″ E 435 52° 47′ 6.675″ N 2° 33′ 55.224″ E 168 52° 49′
9.807″ N 1° 32′ 40.345″ E 436 52° 47′ 7.088″ N 2° 33′ 57.116″ E 169 52° 49′
9.768″ N 1° 32′ 39.737″ E 437 52° 47′ 7.573″ N 2° 33′ 58.962″ E 170 52° 49′
9.855″ N 1° 32′ 38.941″ E 438 52° 47′ 8.126″ N 2° 34′ 0.754″ E 171 52° 49′
10.086″ N 1° 32′ 38.247″ E 439 52° 47′ 8.747″ N 2° 34′ 2.485″ E 172 52° 49′
10.218″ N 1° 32′ 37.939″ E 440 52° 47′ 9.433″ N 2° 34′ 4.148″ E 173 52° 49′
10.691″ N 1° 32′ 36.993″ E 441 52° 47′ 10.180″ N 2° 34′ 5.737″ E 174 52° 49′
11.553″ N 1° 32′ 35.417″ E 442 52° 47′ 10.987″ N 2° 34′ 7.246″ E 175 52° 49′
12.200″ N 1° 32′ 33.887″ E 443 52° 47′ 11.849″ N 2° 34′ 8.668″ E 176 52° 49′
12.742″ N 1° 32′ 32.736″ E 444 52° 47′ 12.764″ N 2° 34′ 9.998″ E 177 52° 49′
13.080″ N 1° 32′ 31.922″ E 445 52° 47′ 13.727″ N 2° 34′ 11.230″ E 178 52° 49′
13.507″ N 1° 32′ 31.040″ E 446 52° 47′ 14.736″ N 2° 34′ 12.361″ E 179 52° 49′
14.325″ N 1° 32′ 29.767″ E 447 52° 47′ 15.785″ N 2° 34′ 13.384″ E 180 52° 49′
14.340″ N 1° 32′ 29.796″ E 448 52° 47′ 16.872″ N 2° 34′ 14.297″ E 181 52° 49′
15.178″ N 1° 32′ 31.478″ E 449 52° 47′ 17.991″ N 2° 34′ 15.096″ E 182 52° 49′
15.638″ N 1° 32′ 32.401″ E 450 52° 47′ 19.138″ N 2° 34′ 15.777″ E 183 52° 49′
45.178″ N 1° 33′ 31.705″ E 451 52° 47′ 20.309″ N 2° 34′ 16.338″ E 184 52° 49′
45.944″ N 1° 33′ 33.513″ E 452 52° 47′ 21.499″ N 2° 34′ 16.777″ E 185 52° 49′
46.772″ N 1° 33′ 35.540″ E 453 52° 47′ 22.704″ N 2° 34′ 17.091″ E 186 52° 49′
47.579″ N 1° 33′ 37.591″ E 454 52° 47′ 23.918″ N 2° 34′ 17.280″ E 187 52° 49′
48.363″ N 1° 33′ 39.664″ E 455 52° 47′ 25.496″ N 2° 34′ 17.365″ E 188 52° 49′
49.126″ N 1° 33′ 41.760″ E 456 52° 48′ 2.953″ N 2° 26′ 36.184″ E 189 52° 49′
49.866″ N 1° 33′ 43.878″ E 457 52° 48′ 2.518″ N 2° 26′ 33.730″ E 190 52° 49′
50.585″ N 1° 33′ 46.016″ E 458 52° 48′ 1.985″ N 2° 26′ 31.328″ E 191 52° 49′
51.280″ N 1° 33′ 48.175″ E 459 52° 48′ 1.357″ N 2° 26′ 28.991″ E 192 52° 49′
51.952″ N 1° 33′ 50.354″ E 460 52° 48′ 1.009″ N 2° 26′ 27.849″ E 193 52° 49′
52.602″ N 1° 33′ 52.551″ E 461 52° 48′ 0.243″ N 2° 26′ 25.626″ E 194 52° 49′
53.228″ N 1° 33′ 54.767″ E 462 52° 47′ 59.827″ N 2° 26′ 24.547″ E 195 52° 49′
53.831″ N 1° 33′ 57.000″ E 463 52° 47′ 58.931″ N 2° 26′ 22.461″ E 196 52° 49′
54.410″ N 1° 33′ 59.251″ E 464 52° 47′ 57.954″ N 2° 26′ 20.477″ E 197 52° 49′
54.965″ N 1° 34′ 1.518″ E 465 52° 47′ 57.436″ N 2° 26′ 19.526″ E 198 52° 49′
55.496″ N 1° 34′ 3.800″ E 466 52° 47′ 56.343″ N 2° 26′ 17.712″ E 199 52° 49′
56.003″ N 1° 34′ 6.098″ E 467 52° 47′ 55.181″ N 2° 26′ 16.022″ E 200 52° 49′
56.486″ N 1° 34′ 8.409″ E 468 52° 47′ 53.953″ N 2° 26′ 14.462″ E 201 52° 49′
56.944″ N 1° 34′ 10.735″ E 469 52° 47′ 53.316″ N 2° 26′ 13.734″ E 202 52° 49′
57.378″ N 1° 34′ 13.073″ E 470 52° 47′ 52.000″ N 2° 26′ 12.384″ E 203 52° 49′
57.786″ N 1° 34′ 15.423″ E 471 52° 47′ 51.322″ N 2° 26′ 11.763″ E 204 52° 49′
58.171″ N 1° 34′ 17.784″ E 472 52° 47′ 49.931″ N 2° 26′ 10.635″ E 205 52° 49′
58.530″ N 1° 34′ 20.157″ E 473 52° 47′ 48.498″ N 2° 26′ 9.662″ E 206 52° 49′
58.864″ N 1° 34′ 22.539″ E 474 52° 47′ 47.030″ N 2° 26′ 8.847″ E 207 52° 49′
59.173″ N 1° 34′ 24.930″ E 475 52° 47′ 45.531″ N 2° 26′ 8.195″ E 208 52° 49′
59.456″ N 1° 34′ 27.330″ E 476 52° 47′ 44.124″ N 2° 26′ 7.739″ E 209 52° 49′
59.714″ N 1° 34′ 29.738″ E 477 52° 47′ 42.819″ N 2° 26′ 7.446″ E 210 52° 49′
59.947″ N 1° 34′ 32.153″ E 478 52° 47′ 42.518″ N 2° 26′ 7.422″ E 211 52° 50′
0.154″ N 1° 34′ 34.574″ E 479 52° 47′ 40.198″ N 2° 26′ 6.759″ E 212 52° 50′
0.336″ N 1° 34′ 37.001″ E 480 52° 47′ 32.505″ N 2° 26′ 6.180″ E 213 52° 50′
0.492″ N 1° 34′ 39.433″ E 481 52° 50′ 2.151″ N 2° 35′ 9.316″ E 214 52° 50′
0.623″ N 1° 34′ 41.869″ E 482 52° 47′ 39.858″ N 2° 35′ 10.667″ E 215 52° 50′
0.727″ N 1° 34′ 44.308″ E 483 52° 47′ 38.680″ N 2° 35′ 10.728″ E 216 52° 50′
0.806″ N 1° 34′ 46.750″ E 484 52° 47′ 37.466″ N 2° 35′ 10.917″ E 217 52° 50′
0.859″ N 1° 34′ 49.193″ E 485 52° 47′ 36.261″ N 2° 35′ 11.231″ E 218 52° 50′
0.887″ N 1° 34′ 51.638″ E 486 52° 47′ 35.071″ N 2° 35′ 11.670″ E 219 52° 50′
0.888″ N 1° 34′ 54.083″ E 487 52° 47′ 33.900″ N 2° 35′ 12.231″ E 220 52° 50′
0.864″ N 1° 34′ 56.528″ E 488 52° 47′ 32.753″ N 2° 35′ 12.912″ E 221 52° 50′
0.814″ N 1° 34′ 58.972″ E 489 52° 47′ 31.634″ N 2° 35′ 13.711″ E 222 52° 50′
0.739″ N 1° 35′ 1.414″ E 490 52° 47′ 30.547″ N 2° 35′ 14.623″ E 223 52° 50′
0.637″ N 1° 35′ 3.854″ E 491 52° 47′ 29.498″ N 2° 35′ 15.647″ E 224 52° 50′
0.510″ N 1° 35′ 6.290″ E 492 52° 47′ 28.489″ N 2° 35′ 16.777″ E 225 52° 50′
0.357″ N 1° 35′ 8.722″ E 493 52° 47′ 27.525″ N 2° 35′ 18.010″ E 226 52° 50′
0.178″ N 1° 35′ 11.150″ E 494 52° 47′ 26.611″ N 2° 35′ 19.340″ E 227 52° 49′
59.974″ N 1° 35′ 13.572″ E 495 52° 47′ 25.748″ N 2° 35′ 20.762″ E 228 52° 49′
59.745″ N 1° 35′ 15.987″ E 496 52° 47′ 24.942″ N 2° 35′ 22.271″ E 229 52° 49′
59.490″ N 1° 35′ 18.396″ E 497 52° 47′ 24.194″ N 2° 35′ 23.860″ E 230 52° 49′
59.209″ N 1° 35′ 20.797″ E 498 52° 47′ 23.509″ N 2° 35′ 25.523″ E 231 52° 49′
58.903″ N 1° 35′ 23.190″ E 499 52° 47′ 22.888″ N 2° 35′ 27.254″ E 232 52° 49′
58.573″ N 1° 35′ 25.573″ E 500 52° 47′ 22.334″ N 2° 35′ 29.046″ E 233 52° 49′
58.217″ N 1° 35′ 27.947″ E 501 52° 47′ 21.849″ N 2° 35′ 30.892″ E 234 52° 49′
57.836″ N 1° 35′ 30.310″ E 502 52° 47′ 21.436″ N 2° 35′ 32.784″ E 235 52° 49′
57.430″ N 1° 35′ 32.661″ E 503 52° 47′ 21.096″ N 2° 35′ 34.716″ E 236 52° 49′
56.999″ N 1° 35′ 35.001″ E 504 52° 47′ 20.829″ N 2° 35′ 36.678″ E 237 52° 49′
56.544″ N 1° 35′ 37.328″ E 505 52° 47′ 20.638″ N 2° 35′ 38.665″ E 238 52° 49′
56.064″ N 1° 35′ 39.641″ E 506 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 40.667″ E 239 52° 49′
55.560″ N 1° 35′ 41.940″ E 507 52° 47′ 20.485″ N 2° 35′ 42.678″ E 240 52° 49′
55.032″ N 1° 35′ 44.225″ E 508 52° 47′ 20.523″ N 2° 35′ 44.688″ E 241 52° 49′
54.480″ N 1° 35′ 46.494″ E 509 52° 47′ 20.637″ N 2° 35′ 46.691″ E 242 52° 49′
53.904″ N 1° 35′ 48.746″ E 510 52° 47′ 20.743″ N 2° 35′ 47.801″ E 243 52° 49′
53.304″ N 1° 35′ 50.982″ E 511 52° 47′ 20.744″ N 2° 35′ 47.806″ E 244 52° 49′
52.681″ N 1° 35′ 53.200″ E 512 52° 47′ 21.786″ N 2° 35′ 56.101″ E 245 52° 49′
52.034″ N 1° 35′ 55.400″ E 513 52° 48′ 20.763″ N 2° 43′ 47.964″ E 246 52° 49′
51.868″ N 1° 35′ 55.943″ E 514 52° 48′ 21.026″ N 2° 43′ 49.928″ E 247 52° 48′
40.863″ N 1° 39′ 22.453″ E 515 52° 48′ 21.364″ N 2° 43′ 51.862″ E 248 52° 48′
40.702″ N 1° 39′ 22.924″ E 516 52° 48′ 21.774″ N 2° 43′ 53.756″ E 249 52° 48′
40.367″ N 1° 39′ 23.994″ E 517 52° 48′ 22.256″ N 2° 43′ 55.605″ E 250 52° 48′
40.234″ N 1° 39′ 24.393″ E 518 52° 48′ 22.808″ N 2° 43′ 57.400″ E 251 52° 48′
40.107″ N 1° 39′ 24.797″ E 519 52° 48′ 23.426″ N 2° 43′ 59.134″ E 252 52° 48′
39.560″ N 1° 39′ 26.596″ E 520 52° 48′ 24.109″ N 2° 44′ 0.800″ E 253 52° 48′
39.405″ N 1° 39′ 27.124″ E 521 52° 48′ 24.854″ N 2° 44′ 2.393″ E 254 52° 48′
39.261″ N 1° 39′ 27.661″ E 522 52° 48′ 25.659″ N 2° 44′ 3.905″ E 255 52° 48′
38.783″ N 1° 39′ 29.512″ E 523 52° 48′ 26.519″ N 2° 44′ 5.331″ E 256 52° 48′
38.649″ N 1° 39′ 30.055″ E 524 52° 48′ 27.432″ N 2° 44′ 6.665″ E 257 52° 48′
38.525″ N 1° 39′ 30.606″ E 525 52° 48′ 28.394″ N 2° 44′ 7.902″ E 258 52° 48′
38.044″ N 1° 39′ 32.861″ E 526 52° 48′ 29.401″ N 2° 44′ 9.037″ E 259 52° 48′
37.927″ N 1° 39′ 33.484″ E 527 52° 48′ 30.449″ N 2° 44′ 10.065″ E 260 52° 48′
37.569″ N 1° 39′ 35.557″ E 528 52° 48′ 31.534″ N 2° 44′ 10.983″ E 261 52° 48′
37.477″ N 1° 39′ 36.124″ E 529 52° 48′ 32.652″ N 2° 44′ 11.786″ E 262 52° 48′
37.396″ N 1° 39′ 36.696″ E 530 52° 48′ 33.799″ N 2° 44′ 12.472″ E 263 52° 48′
37.137″ N 1° 39′ 38.662″ E 531 52° 48′ 34.969″ N 2° 44′ 13.037″ E 264 52° 48′
37.067″ N 1° 39′ 39.237″ E 532 52° 48′ 36.158″ N 2° 44′ 13.481″ E 265 52° 48′
37.008″ N 1° 39′ 39.816″ E 533 52° 48′ 37.362″ N 2° 44′ 13.800″ E 266 52° 48′
36.824″ N 1° 39′ 41.805″ E 534 52° 48′ 38.576″ N 2° 44′ 13.994″ E 267 52° 48′
36.776″ N 1° 39′ 42.387″ E 535 52° 48′ 39.226″ N 2° 44′ 14.030″ E 268 52° 48′
36.739″ N 1° 39′ 42.971″ E 536 52° 51′ 27.631″ N 2° 44′ 14.043″ E

##### Details of Licensed Marine Activities

1

Subject to the licence conditions at Part 4, this licence authorises the
undertaker (and any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out
the following licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable
marine activities) of the 2009 Act—

1.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 5 of
Part 2 of this licence;

1.b

the construction of works in or over the sea and/or on or under the sea bed;

1.c

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation;

1.d

the disposal of up to 11,475,000 m 3  of inert material of natural origin
within the offshore Order limits produced during construction drilling or
seabed preparation for foundation works and cable (including fibre optic
cable) sandwave preparation works at disposal site references HU213, HU214,
HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS,
comprising—

1.d.i

9,000,000 m 3  for cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

1.d.ii

75,000 m 3  for the offshore electrical platforms;

1.d.iii

1,900,000 m 3  for the export cables (including fibre optic cables) within the
Order limits excluding the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of
Conservation; and

1.d.iv

500,000 m 3  for the export cables (including fibre optic cables) within the
part of the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation
that falls within the Order limits;

1.e

the removal of static fishing equipment; and

1.f

the disposal of drill arisings in connection with any foundation drilling up
to 14,137 m 3 .

2

2.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of—

2.2

Work No. 2   (phase 2)  – up to two offshore electrical platforms fixed to the
seabed within the area shown on the works plan by one of the following
foundation types: jacket (piled or suction caisson) or gravity base.

2.3

Work No. 3 (phase 2)  – a network of subsea cables and fibre optic cables
within the area shown on the works plan comprising Work No. 2 and for the
transmission of electricity and electronic communications between the offshore
electrical platforms including one or more cable crossings.

2.4

Work No. 4A (phase 2)  – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic
cables between Work No. 2 and Work No. 4B consisting of subsea cables and
fibre optic cables along routes within the Order limits seaward of MHWS
including one or more offshore cable crossings.

2.5

Work No . 4B (phase 2) – up to four subsea export cables and fibre optic
cables between Work No. 4A and Work No. 4C consisting of subsea cables and
fibre optic cables along routes within the Order limits between MLWS and MHWS
at Happisburgh South, North Norfolk.

2.6

In connection with Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A and 4B and to the extent that they do
not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement and
the provisions of this licence.

2.7

In connection with such Work Nos. 2, 3, 4A and 4B, ancillary works within the
Order limits which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment
recorded in the environmental statement comprising—

2.7.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

2.7.b

beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact protection
works.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platform forming part of the
authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 100 metres in height when measured from HAT, 120 metres in length and
80 metres in width.

1.2

In relation to an offshore electrical platform, each foundation using piles
must not have—

1.2.a

more than 18 driven piles; or

1.2.b

a pile diameter which is more than five metres.

1.3

In relation to an offshore electrical platform, the foundations must not have
a seabed footprint area (excluding scour protection) of greater than 15,000 m
2 .

2

The total length of the cables and the area and volume of their cable
protection must not exceed the following—

Work Length Cable protection (m 2  and m 3 ) Work No. 3 (Interconnector link)
150 kilometres 76,000m 2  38,000 m 3 Work No. 4A and 4B (export cable) 400
kilometres 102,086m 2  59,836 m 3

###### Phasing of the authorised scheme

3

3.1

Taken together with works authorised and proposed to be constructed pursuant
to licence 1 (transmission)—

3.1.a

the total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised scheme must not exceed two;

3.1.b

the total amount of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme must not exceed 20,000m 2  and 100,000 m
3 ; and

3.1.c

the total amount of inert material of natural origin disposed within the
offshore Order limits as part of the authorised scheme must not exceed
11,475,000 m 3 ;

3.1.d

the total amount of disposal for drill arisings in connection with any
foundation drilling must not exceed 14,137 m 3 ;

3.1.e

the total length of cable and the amount of cable protection must not exceed
the figures stated in condition 2 of this licence; and

3.1.f

in the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation, the
total area of cable protection must not exceed 32,000m² and the total volume
of cable protection must not exceed 20,800m³.

3.2

Prior to the commencement of the authorised scheme the undertaker must give
notice to the MMO detailing—

3.2.a

whether the authorised scheme will be constructed—

3.2.a.i

in a single offshore phase under this licence; or

3.2.a.ii

in two offshore phases under this licence and licence 1 (transmission); and

3.2.b

where the authorised scheme will be constructed in two offshore phases, the
total number of offshore electrical platforms to be constructed in each phase.

###### Notifications and inspections

4

4.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

4.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

4.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
12; and

4.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 12;

4.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must provide a completed confirmation form to the MMO
confirming receipt of this licence.

4.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 12 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

4.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

4.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

4.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

4.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

4.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

4.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

4.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to the commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them,
and within five days of completion of the licensed activities.

4.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

4.7.a

at least fourteen days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

4.7.b

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours of completion of
construction of all offshore activities;

and confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

4.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least ten days prior to the
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them advising of the
start date of Work No. 2 and the expected vessel routes from the construction
ports to the relevant location. A second notice to mariners must be issued
advising of the start date of Work Nos. 3, 4A and 4B and the route of the sub-
sea cables and fibre optic cables. Copies of all notices must be provided to
the MMO, MCA and UKHO within five days.

4.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at weekly intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction and monitoring
programme approved under condition 9(1)(b). Copies of all notices must be
provided to the MMO and UKHO within five days.

4.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office both of the commencement
(within ten days), progress and completion of construction (within ten days)
of the licensed activities in order that all necessary amendments to nautical
charts are made and the undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to
the MMO within five days.

4.11

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of the authorised scheme seaward
of MHWS or any part thereof, the undertaker must as soon as reasonably
practicable and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware
of any such damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, the
Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish and the UK Hydrographic Office.

4.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must
within three days following identification of a potential cable exposure,
notify mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure. Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO and MCA within five days.

###### Aids to navigation

5

5.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and to take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

5.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS including the following—

5.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

5.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

5.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

5.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation as set out in the aids to navigation management plan agreed
pursuant to condition 9(1)(k) using the reporting system provided by Trinity
House.

5.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

5.5

In the event that the provisions of condition 4(11) and condition 4(12) are
invoked, the undertaker must lay down such marker buoys, exhibit such lights
and take such other steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by
Trinity House.

###### Colouring of structures

6

6.1

Except as otherwise required by Trinity House the undertaker must colour all
structures forming part of the authorised scheme yellow (colour code RAL 1023)
from at least HAT to a height directed by Trinity House, or must colour the
structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must paint the remainder of the structures submarine grey (colour
code RAL 7035).

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

7

7.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO all chemicals used in the
construction of the authorised scheme must be selected from the List of
Notified Chemicals approved for use by the offshore oil and gas industry under
the Offshore Chemicals Regulations 2002  (as amended).

7.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

7.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

7.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under this licence. This information must be submitted
to the MMO by 15 February each year for the months August to January
inclusive, and by 15 August each year for the months February to July
inclusive.

7.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
produced during the drilling installation of or seabed preparation for
foundations, and drilling mud is disposed of within disposal site references
HU213, HU214, HU215 and HU216 within the extent of the Order limits seaward of
MHWS. Any other materials must be screened out before disposal of the inert
material at this site.

7.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

7.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

7.8

The undertaker must undertake the survey agreed under condition 9(1)(h)(iii)
following the swath-bathymetry survey referred to in condition 15(2)(b).
Should any such obstructions resulting from burial of Work No. 4A or 4B
(export cables and fibre optic cables) be identified which, in the reasonable
opinion of the MMO, may be considered to interfere with fishing, the
undertaker must take such steps to remove them as the MMO in its reasonable
opinion may require.

7.9

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

7.10

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan agreed under condition
14(1)(d)(i).

7.11

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within 24
hours of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

8

8.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to make a deposit which is not authorised
under this licence, whether within or outside of the Order limits, because the
safety of human life and/or of the vessel is threatened, within 48 hours the
undertaker must notify full details of the circumstances of the deposit to the
MMO.

8.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

9

9.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

9.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be agreed in
writing with the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which
shows, in accordance with the Development Principles—

9.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all offshore electrical
platforms;

9.1.a.ii

the height, length and width of all offshore electrical platforms;

9.1.a.iii

the length and arrangement of all cables (including fibre optic cables)
comprising Work Nos. 3, 4A and 4B;

9.1.a.iv

the dimensions of all foundations;

9.1.a.v

the proposed layout of all offshore electrical platforms including any
exclusion zones identified under sub-paragraph (1)(h)(iv);

9.1.a.vi

a plan showing the indicative layout of all offshore electrical platforms
including all exclusion zones (insofar as not shown in (v) above) and showing
the indicative programming of particular works as set out in the indicative
programme to be provided under sub-paragraph (1)(b)(iv); and

9.1.a.vii

any exclusion zones/micrositing requirements identified in any mitigation
scheme pursuant to sub-paragraph (1)(i);

to ensure conformity with the description of Works No. 2, 3, 4A and 4B and
compliance with conditions 1 to 3 above.

9.1.b

A construction programme and monitoring plan (which accords with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan) to include details of—

9.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

9.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

9.1.b.iii

proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format and content,
construction monitoring, post-construction surveys and monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with sub-paragraph (1)(h) and conditions 12, 13, 14
and 15; and

9.1.b.iv

an indicative written construction programme for all offshore electrical
platforms and cables including fibre optic cables comprised in the works at
Part 3 (licensed marine activities) of this Schedule (insofar as not shown in
paragraph (ii) above);

with details pursuant to paragraph (iii) above to be submitted to the MMO in
accordance with the following—

9.1.b.aa

at least four months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed pre-construction monitoring;

9.1.b.bb

at least four months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;
and

9.1.b.cc

at least four months prior to commissioning, detail of post-construction (and
operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

9.1.c

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

9.1.c.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works and having regard to any mitigation scheme pursuant to sub-
paragraph (1)(i);

9.1.c.ii

soft start procedures with specified duration periods;

9.1.c.iii

offshore electrical platform location and installation, including scour
protection;

9.1.c.iv

cable (including fibre optic cable) installation;

9.1.c.v

contractors;

9.1.c.vi

vessels, vessels maintenance and vessels transit corridors; and

9.1.c.vii

associated and ancillary works.

9.1.d

A project environmental management plan (in accordance with the outline
project environmental management plan) covering the period of construction and
operation to include details of—

9.1.d.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

9.1.d.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

9.1.d.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

9.1.d.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer; and

9.1.d.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan (which accords with the outline
fisheries liaison and co-existence plan) to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 4 and to
address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities.

9.1.e

A scour protection and cable protection plan (in accordance with the outline
scour protection and cable protection plan) providing details of the need,
type, sources, quantity, distribution and installation methods for scour
protection and cable (including fibre optic cable) protection. For the
avoidance of doubt “distribution” in this sub-paragraph must include
quantities in respect of each structure comprised in the offshore works and
intended to be subject to scour protection.

9.1.f

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a marine mammal
mitigation protocol, in accordance with the draft marine mammal mitigation
protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine mammals and
following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory nature
conservation bodies.

9.1.g

A cable specification, installation and monitoring plan, for the installation
and protection of cables outside of the Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton
Special Area of Conservation, to include—

9.1.g.i

technical specification of offshore cables (including fibre optic cable) below
MHWS, including a desk-based assessment of attenuation of electro-magnetic
field strengths, shielding and cable burial depth in accordance with industry
good practice;

9.1.g.ii

a detailed cable (including fibre optic cable) laying plan for the Order
limits, incorporating a burial risk assessment to ascertain suitable burial
depths and cable laying techniques, including cable landfall and cable
protection measures;

9.1.g.iii

proposals for monitoring offshore cables including cable (including fibre
optic cable)protection during the operational lifetime of the authorised
scheme which includes a risk based approach to the management of unburied or
shallow buried cables; and

9.1.g.iv

appropriate methods such as a trawl or drift net to be deployed along Work No.
4A and 4B (export cables and fibre optic cables), following the survey
referred to in condition 15(2)(b) to assess any seabed obstructions resulting
from burial of the export cables and fibre optic cables.

9.1.h

An archaeological written scheme of investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean low water, which must accord with the outline
written scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in
consultation with the statutory historic body (and, if relevant, North Norfolk
District Council) to include—

9.1.h.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

9.1.h.ii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

9.1.h.iii

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

9.1.h.iv

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

9.1.h.v

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction;

9.1.h.vi

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the National Record of the Historic
Environment, by submitting a Historic England OASIS (Online Access to the
Index of archaeological investigations) form with a digital copy of the report
within six months of completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and
to notify the MMO (and North Norfolk District Council where the report relates
to the intertidal area) that the OASIS form has been submitted to the National
Record of the Historic Environment within two weeks of submission;

9.1.h.vii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

9.1.h.viii

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order Limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

9.1.i

A mitigation scheme for any habitats of principal importance identified by the
survey referred to in condition 13(2)(a) and in accordance with the offshore
in principle monitoring plan.

9.1.j

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
four months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

9.1.k

An aids to navigation management plan to be agreed in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 5 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

9.1.l

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, a site integrity
plan which accords with the principles set out in the in principle Norfolk
Vanguard Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan ,
and which the MMO is satisfied would provide such mitigation as is necessary
to avoid adversely affecting the integrity (within the meaning of the 2017
Regulations) of a relevant site, to the extent that harbour porpoise are a
protected feature of that site.

9.2

Pre-commencement surveys and archaeological investigations and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of investigation
which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the outline offshore
written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been submitted to
and approved by the MMO.

9.3

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed 5,000KJ.

10

10.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition 9(1)(h)(iii)
must be agreed with the MMO in consultation with the statutory historic body
(and, if relevant, North Norfolk District Council).

10.2

The design plan required by condition 9(1)(a) must be prepared by the
undertaker and determined by the MMO in accordance with the Development
Principles.

10.3

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 9 must be submitted for approval at least four months prior to
the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

10.4

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 9.

10.5

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the undertaker, the MMO must use
reasonable endeavours to determine an application for approval made under
condition 9 as soon as practicable and in any event within a period of four
months commencing on the date the application is received by the MMO.

10.6

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the plans,
protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 9, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

10.7

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that stage of the project, adequately
addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised scheme
contained within MGN543 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations (OREIs) –
Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response Issues”
and its annexes.

###### Post-construction plans and documents

11

The undertaker must conduct a swath bathymetric survey to IHO S44ed5 Order 1a
across the area(s) within the Order limits in which construction works were
carried out and provide the data and survey report(s) to the MCA and UKHO.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

12

12.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

12.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

12.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

12.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

13

13.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed
format and content for a pre-construction baseline report; and—

13.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

13.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

13.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

13.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine the location and extent of any benthic
communities/benthos constituting Annex 1 reef habitats of principal importance
in whole or in part inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is
proposed to carry out construction works; and

13.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements
of IHO S44ed5 Order 1a, and side scan sonar, of the area(s) within the Order
limits in which it is proposed to carry out construction works.

13.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

14

14.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In the event that driven or part-driven pile
foundations are proposed, such monitoring must include measurements of noise
generated by the installation of the first four piled foundations of each
piled foundation type to be installed unless the MMO otherwise agrees in
writing.

14.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

14.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required. If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with Natural England, the assessment shows significantly
different impacts to those assessed in the environmental statement or failures
in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an update to the marine
mammal mitigation protocol and further monitoring requirements have been
agreed.

14.4

In the event that piled foundations are proposed to be used, the details
submitted in accordance with the offshore in principle monitoring plan must
include proposals for monitoring marine mammals.

###### Post construction

15

15.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition 9(1)(b), submit details (which
accord with the offshore in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

15.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake-

15.2.a

a survey to determine any change in the location, extent and composition of
any benthic habitats of conservation, ecological and/or economic importance
constituting Annex 1 reef habitats identified in the pre-construction survey
in the parts of the Order limits in which construction works were carried out.
The survey design must be informed by the results of the pre-construction
benthic survey;

15.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one full sea
floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey that meets the requirements of IHO
S44ed5 Order 1a across the area(s) within the Order limits in which
construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables including fibre optic cables have been buried or protected;
and

15.2.c

or contribute to any marine mammal monitoring referred to in the in principle
monitoring plan submitted in accordance with condition 9(1)(b).

15.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

15.4

Following installation of cables, the cable (including fibre optic cables)
monitoring plan required under condition 9(1)(g)(iii) must be updated with the
results of the post installation surveys. The plan must be implemented during
the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme and reviewed as specified
within the plan, following cable burial surveys, or as instructed by the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving

16

16.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be used as
part of the foundation installation the undertaker must provide the following
information to the UK Marine Noise Registry—

16.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licensed activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the
Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

16.1.b

at six month intervals following the commencement of pile driving, information
on the locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements; and

16.1.c

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving, information on the
locations and dates of impact pile driving to satisfy the Marine Noise
Registry’s Close Out requirements.

16.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph (1) above within 7 days of the
submission.

16.3

For the purpose of this condition—

16.3.a

“ Marine Noise Registry ” means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas; and

16.3.b

“Forward Look” and “Close Out” requirements are as set out in the UK Marine
Noise Registry Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated
information document.

###### Reporting of cable protection

17

17.1

Not more than 4 months following completion of the construction phase of the
authorised scheme, the undertaker must provide the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies with a report setting out details of the
cable protection used for the authorised scheme.

17.2

The report must include the following information—

17.2.a

location of the cable protection;

17.2.b

volume of cable protection; and

17.2.c

any other information relating to the cable protection as agreed between the
MMO and the undertaker.

###### Restriction on cable installation construction works

18

During the months of January to March inclusive, construction activities
consisting of cable installation for Work No. 4A and Work No. 4B must only
take place with one main cable laying vessel.

  Hedgerows

Article 35

##### Removal of Potentially Important Hedgerows

      (1) (2) Area Reference of hedgerow   District of North Norfolk The
potentially important hedgerow marked 9 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 10 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 11 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 12 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 13 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 14 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 15 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 16 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 17 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 18 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 19 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 20 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 21 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 22 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 25 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 27 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 28 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 29 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 30 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 31 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 32 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 33 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 39 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 40 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 41 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 42 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 43 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 44 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 45 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 46 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 47 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 48 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 54 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 55 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 56 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 57 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 58 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 59 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 60 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 61 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 62 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 63 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 69 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 70 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The potentially important
hedgerow marked 71 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The potentially important hedgerow marked 72 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The potentially important hedgerow marked 81 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 88 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 89 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 90 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 91 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 92 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 93 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 94 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 95 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 96 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 97 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 98 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 99 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 100 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 101 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 102 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 103 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 104 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 105 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 106 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 107 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 108 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 109 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 113 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 114 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 116 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 118 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 119 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 120 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 121 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 122 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 123 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 124 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 125 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 126 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 127 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 128 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 129 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 130 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 131 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 132 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 133 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 134 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 135 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 136 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 148 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 149 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 150 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 151 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 152 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 153 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 154 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 155 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 156 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 157 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 158 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 159 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 160 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 161 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 162 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 163 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 164 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 165 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 166 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 167 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 168 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The potentially important hedgerow marked 173 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 177 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 178 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 179 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 180 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 184 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 185 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 186 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 187 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 188 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 189 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 190 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 192 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 193 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 197 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 207 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 208 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 209 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 210 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 211 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 212 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 213 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 214 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 215 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 216 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 217 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 218 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 219 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 220 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 221 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 222 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 223 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 224 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 227 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 228 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 229 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 230 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 231 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 232 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 233 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 234 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 235 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 250 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 251 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 260 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 261 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 266 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 267 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 268 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 269 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 270 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 271 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 272 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 273 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 274 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 275 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 276 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 277 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 284 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 288 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 289 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 290 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 291 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The potentially important hedgerow marked 292 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The potentially important
hedgerow marked 293 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
potentially important hedgerow marked 303 on the important hedgerows plan

##### Removal of Important Hedgerows

      (1) (2) Area Reference of hedgerow   District of North Norfolk The
important hedgerow marked 2 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 4 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 6 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 8 on
the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow
marked 23 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The
important hedgerow marked 24 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 26 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 34 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 36 on
the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow
marked 37 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The
important hedgerow marked 49 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 50 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 52 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 64 on
the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow
marked 65 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The
important hedgerow marked 66 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 67 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 68 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 73 on
the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow
marked 74 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The
important hedgerow marked 75 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 76 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 77 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow marked 78 on
the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The important hedgerow
marked 80 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important
hedgerow marked 82 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
important hedgerow marked 83 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Broadland The important hedgerow marked 84 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked 85 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked 86 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked
87 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important
hedgerow marked 110 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
important hedgerow marked 111 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Broadland The important hedgerow marked 112 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked 115 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked 146 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked
169 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The important
hedgerow marked 170 on the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The
important hedgerow marked 174 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Broadland The important hedgerow marked 175 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Broadland The important hedgerow marked 176 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 181 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
182 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 195 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 196 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 198 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 199 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 200 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
201 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 202 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 203 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 204 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 205 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 206 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
225 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 226 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 236 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 237 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 238 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 239 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
241 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 242 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 243 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 244 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 245 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 252 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
253 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 254 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 255 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 256 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 257 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 258 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
259 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 263 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 264 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 265 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 278 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 279 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
280 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 281 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 282 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 283 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 285 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 286 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
287 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 294 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 295 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 296 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 297 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 299 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
302 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 304 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The
important hedgerow marked 308 on the important hedgerows plan District of
Breckland The important hedgerow marked 312 on the important hedgerows plan
District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 313 on the important
hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked 314 on the
important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important hedgerow marked
315 on the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The important
hedgerow marked 316 on the important hedgerows plan

##### Removal of Hedgerows

      (1)  (2)  Area Reference of hedgerow   District of North Norfolk The
hedgerow marked 1 on the important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk
The hedgerow marked 3 on the important hedgerows plan District of North
Norfolk The hedgerow marked 5 on the important hedgerows plan District of
North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 7 on the important hedgerows plan District
of North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 35 on the important hedgerows plan
District of North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 38 on the important hedgerows
plan District of North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 51 on the important
hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 53 on the
important hedgerows plan District of North Norfolk The hedgerow marked 79 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 117 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 137 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 138 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 139 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 140 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 141 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 142 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 143 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 144 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 145 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 147 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 171 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Broadland The hedgerow marked 172 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 183 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 191 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 194 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 240 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 246 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 247 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 248 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 249 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 262 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 298 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 300 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 301 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 305 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 306 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 307 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 309 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 310 on
the important hedgerows plan District of Breckland The hedgerow marked 311 on
the important hedgerows plan

  Arbitration Rules

Article 38

##### Primary objective

1

1.1

The primary objective of these Arbitration Rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within 4 months from the date the Arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article 38 (arbitration) of the Order.

1.2

The Parties will first use their reasonable endeavours to settle a dispute
amicably through negotiations undertaken in good faith by the senior
management of the Parties. Any dispute which is not resolved amicably by the
senior management of the Parties within 20 business days of the dispute
arising, or such longer period as agreed in writing by the Parties, shall be
subject to arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.

1.3

The Arbitration is deemed to have commenced when a party (“the Claimant”)
serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“the Respondent”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these Arbitration Rules are measured in days and include
weekends, but not bank or public holidays.

2.2

Time periods are calculated from the day after the Arbitrator is appointed
which is either:

2.2.a

the date the Arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the Arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the Arbitration is set out in sub–paragraphs (2) to (4)
below unless amended in accordance with paragraph 5(3).

3.2

Within 14 days of the Arbitrator being appointed, the Claimant must provide
both the Respondent and the Arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written Statement of Claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the Claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, the amount of its claim and/or the remedy it is seeking;
and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 14 days of receipt of the Claimant’s statements under sub–paragraph (2)
by the Arbitrator and Respondent, the Respondent must provide the Claimant and
the Arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written Statement of Defence responding to the Claimant’s Statement of
Claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference, the legal and
factual issues in the Claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s) of
the Claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those elements of the Claimant’s
claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports; and

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the Claimant’s statements, comments on the
Claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the Claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within 7 days of the Respondent serving its statements under sub–paragraph
(3), the Claimant may make a Statement of Reply by providing both the
Respondent and the Arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the Respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the Respondent; and

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The parties’ pleadings, witness statements and expert reports (if any) must be
concise. No single pleading is to exceed 30 single-sided A4 pages using 10pt
Arial font.

4.2

The Arbitrator must make an award on the substantive difference(s) based
solely on the written material submitted by the parties unless the Arbitrator
decides that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.3

Either party may, within 2 days of delivery of the last submission, request a
hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is required.

4.4

Within 7 days of receiving the last submission, the Arbitrator must notify the
parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.5

Within 10 days of the Arbitrator advising the parties that he is to hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing must be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the Arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which he considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the Arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.6

A decision must be made by the Arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the Arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the Arbitrator.

4.7

There is no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but the
Arbitrator must invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way of
clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
Arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
is:

4.7.a

at least 28 days before a hearing, the Arbitrator must provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.7.b

if more than one expert is called, they are to jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 14 days of the issues being provided; and

4.7.c

the form and content of a joint report must be as directed by the Arbitrator
and must be provided at least 7 days before the hearing.

4.8

Within 14 days of a Hearing or a decision by the Arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the Parties may by way of exchange provide the Arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The Arbitrator must take these submissions into account in the
Award.

4.9

The Arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within 4 months of the date
on which they are appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to an
extension to the date for the award.

4.10

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the Arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before them
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.11

The Arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties must accept that the
extent to which reasons are given are proportionate to the issues in dispute
and the time available to the Arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The Arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996 , including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified by these Rules.

5.2

There must be no discovery or disclosure, except that the Arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the Statement of Reply, or by the
Arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders are to be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the Arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the Arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the Arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the Arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice; and
then

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the Arbitrator must notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it is to be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the Arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the Arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
Arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the Arbitration.

6.2

Where the difference involves connected/interrelated issues, the Arbitrator
must consider the relevant costs collectively.

6.3

The final award must fix the costs of the arbitration and decide which of the
parties must bear them or in what proportion they are to be borne by the
parties.

6.4

The Arbitrator must award recoverable costs on the general principle that
costs follow the event, having regard to all material circumstances, including
such matters as exaggerated claims and/or defences, the degree of success for
different elements of the claims, claims that have incurred substantial costs,
the conduct of the parties and the degree of success of a party.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), any arbitration hearing and
documentation shall be open to and accessible by the public.

7.2

Where the Arbitration relates to a dispute or difference under the provisions
of Schedule 17, the hearings must take place in private unless otherwise
agreed between the parties and any matters, materials, documents, awards,
expert reports and the like are confidential and must not be disclosed to any
third party without prior written consent of the other party.

7.3

The Arbitrator may direct that the whole or part of a hearing is to be private
and/or any documentation to be confidential where it is necessary in order to
protect commercially sensitive information.

7.4

Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any disclosure of a document by a
party pursuant to an order of a court in England and Wales or where disclosure
is required under any enactment.

  Procedure for discharge of Requirements

Article 39

##### Applications made under requirement

1

1.1

Where an application has been made to a discharging authority for any
agreement or approval required pursuant to requirements 13, 14, 16, 17, 18,
20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33 and 34 in Part 3 of Schedule 1
(requirements) of this Order:

1.1.a

the undertaker must give the discharging authority sufficient information to
identify the requirement(s) to which the application relates;

1.1.b

the undertaker must provide such particulars, and the request be accompanied
by such plans and drawings, as are reasonably considered necessary to deal
with the application.

1.2

The discharging authority must give notice to the undertaker of its decision
on the application before the end of the decision period.

1.3

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (2), the decision period is—

1.3.a

where no further information is requested under paragraph 2 (further
information), 8 weeks from the day immediately following that on which the
application is received by the discharging authority;

1.3.b

where further information is requested under paragraph 2 (further
information), 8 weeks from the day immediately following that on which further
information has been supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 2; or

1.3.c

such longer period as may be agreed by the undertaker and the discharging
authority in writing before the end of the period in sub-paragraph (a) or (b).

##### Further information

2

2.1

In relation to any application to which this Schedule applies, the discharging
authority has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable it to consider the application.

2.2

If the discharging authority considers such further information to be
necessary and the requirement does not specify that consultation with a
requirement consultee is required, it must, as soon as reasonably practicable
and within 20 business days of receipt of the application, notify the
undertaker in writing specifying the further information required.

2.3

If the requirement specifies that consultation with a requirement consultee is
required, the discharging authority must issue the consultation to the
requirement consultee within 10 business days of receipt of the application,
and must notify the undertaker in writing specifying any further information
requested by the requirement consultee within 10 business days of receipt of
such a request and in any event within 42 days of receipt of the application.

2.4

If the discharging authority does not give such notification as specified in
sub-paragraph (2) or (3) it is deemed to have sufficient information to
consider the application and is not thereafter entitled to request further
information without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

##### Appeals

3

3.1

The undertaker may appeal to the Secretary of State in the event that—

3.1.a

the discharging authority refuses an application for any agreement or approval
required by a requirement included in this Order;

3.1.b

the discharging authority does not give notice of its decision to the
undertaker within the decision period as determined in paragraph 1;

3.1.c

on receipt of a request for further information pursuant to paragraph 2
(further information) the undertaker considers that either the whole or part
of the specified information requested by the discharging authority is not
reasonably necessary for consideration of the application; or

3.1.d

on receipt of any further information requested, the discharging authority
notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
reasonably necessary for consideration of the application.

3.2

The appeal process is as follows—

3.2.a

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State,
a copy of the application submitted to the discharging authority and any
supporting documentation which the undertaker may wish to provide (“the appeal
documentation”);

3.2.b

the undertaker must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation
to the discharging authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable);

3.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, but in any
event within 28 business days of receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person and forthwith notify the appeal
parties of the identity of the appointed person and the address to which all
correspondence for that person’s attention should be sent;

3.2.d

the discharging authority and the requirement consultee (if applicable) must
submit written representations to the appointed person in respect of the
appeal within 20 business days of the date on which the appeal parties are
notified of the appointment of a person under paragraph (c) and must ensure
that copies of their written representations are sent to each other and to the
undertaker on the day on which they are submitted to the appointed person; and

3.2.e

the appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 20 business days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph (d) above.

3.3

The appointed person must make his decision and notify it to the appeal
parties, with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable. If the appointed
person considers that further information is necessary to enable him to
consider the appeal he must, as soon as practicable, notify the appeal parties
in writing specifying the further information required, the appeal party from
whom the information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

3.4

Any further information required pursuant to sub-paragraph (3) must be
provided by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed
person and to other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed
person. Any written representations concerning matters contained in the
further information must be submitted to the appointed person, and made
available to all appeal parties within 20 business days of that date.

3.5

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

3.5.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

3.5.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the discharging authority (whether
the appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to the appointed
person in the first instance.

3.6

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account only such written representations as have been sent within the time
limits prescribed, or set by the appointed person, under this paragraph.

3.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within those time limits, if it appears to the
appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision to be
made on the merits of the case.

3.8

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

3.9

If an approval is given by the appointed person pursuant to this Schedule, it
is deemed to be an approval for the purpose of Part 3 of Schedule 1
(requirements) as if it had been given by the discharging authority. The
discharging authority may confirm any determination given by the appointed
person in identical form in writing but a failure to give such confirmation
(or a failure to give it in identical form) may not be taken to affect or
invalidate the effect of the appointed person’s determination.

3.10

Save where a direction is given pursuant to sub-paragraph (11) requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the discharging authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

3.11

On application by the discharging authority or the undertaker, the appointed
person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the
parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether
to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to be made, the
appointed person must have regard to the Planning Practice Guidance on the
award of costs or any guidance which may from time to time replace it.

##### Interpretation of this Schedule

4

In this Schedule—

    “ the appeal parties ” means the discharging authority, the requirement
consultee and the undertaker;         “ business day ” means a day other than
Saturday or Sunday which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday
under section 1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 ;         “
discharging authority ” means that person or body responsible for approving
details pursuant to requirements 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25,
26, 27, 28, 29, 32, 33 and 34 in Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements);
“ requirement consultee ” means any body named in a requirement which is the
subject of an appeal as a body to be consulted by the discharging authority in
discharging that requirement.

Protective Provisions

Article 44

##### Protection for electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers

1

For the protection of the undertakers referred to in this Part the following
provisions must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
the affected undertaking concerned, have effect.

2

In this Part—

“ affected undertaker ” means any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
(electricity supply) of the 1989Act; a gas transporter within the meaning of
Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act 1986 ; a water undertaker within the
meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and a sewerage undertaker within the
meaning of Part 1 (preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991, for the area
of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the
undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained. “ alternative
apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the affected
undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an electricity
undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989), belonging to or maintained by that affected undertaker; in the case
of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or
maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of
a water undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained
by that affected undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and any water
mains or service pipes (or part of a water main or service pipe) that is the
subject of an agreement to adopt made under section 51A (agreements to adopt
water main or service pipe at future date) of the Water Industry Act 1991 at
the time of the works mentioned in this Part; and in the case of a sewerage
undertaker— any drain or works vested in the affected undertaker in accordance
with the Water Industry Act 1991; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption
of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewerage disposal works, at
future date)of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the
meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall
and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part
of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; and “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land.

3

This Part does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and the affected undertaker are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

4

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plan,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part and any right of an affected
undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be extinguished
until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker in question.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it mustgive to the affected undertaker in
question written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an affected
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the affected undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the affected undertaker in question shall, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably
possible use all reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and
rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part shall be constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as
may be agreed between the affected undertaker in question and the undertaker
or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article
38 (arbitration).

5.5

The affected undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to
be provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 38 (arbitration), and after the grant to the affected
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part.

5.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the affected undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the affected undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker.

5.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) shall authorise the undertaker to execute the
placing, installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection
of any apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the
apparatus is laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the undertaker affords
to an affected undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights shall be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
affected undertaker in question or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 38 (arbitration).

6.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the affected undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator shall make such provision for the payment of compensation by
the undertaker to that affected undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

7

7.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 5(2) that are near to, or will or may affect, any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 5(2), the undertaker shall submit to the affected undertaker in
question a plan, section and description of the works to be executed.

7.2

Those works shall be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
the affected undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the affected undertaker shall
be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by an affected undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) shall
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

7.4

If an affected undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 6 shall apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5(2).

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the undertaker from submitting at any
time or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing
the execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph shall apply to and in respect of the new plan,
section and description.

7.6

The undertaker shall not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a
case of emergency but in that case it shall give to the affected undertaker in
question notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
shall comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

8

8.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker shall
repay to an affected undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that
affected undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus (including costs or compensation payable in connection with the
acquisition of land for that purpose) which may be required in consequence of
the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph 5(2).

8.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part, that value being
calculated after removal.

8.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

8.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 38 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part
exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been
of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the
case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable
to the affected undertaker in question by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) shall be
reduced by the amount of that excess.

8.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

8.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus shall not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
shall be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

8.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an affected
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) shall, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the affected
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents
that benefit.

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 5(2), any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of an affected undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any affected
undertaker, the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that affected undertaker in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that affected undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the affected undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an affected undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

9.3

An affected undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise shall be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, shall have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

10

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the affected
undertaker under this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the affected undertaker, be determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 38 (arbitration).

11

Nothing in this Part shall affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an affected undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker
on the date on which this Order is made.

##### For the Protection of National Grid as Electricity and Gas Undertaker

###### Application

12

For the protection of National Grid referred to in this Part the following
provisions will, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the promoter and
National Grid, have effect.

###### Interpretation

13

In this Part—

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the satisfaction of
National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of
an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant as defined in
the Electricity Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by that undertaker; in
the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to
or maintained by a gas transporter for the purposes of gas supply; and
together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed
pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for
the purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and includes any
structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give
access to apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to
the term “authorised development” in article 2 of this Order and includes any
associated development authorised by the Order and for the purposes of this
Part includes the use and maintenance of the authorised works and construction
of any works authorised by this Schedule; “ commence ” has the same meaning as
in article 2 of this Order and commencement must be construed to have the same
meaning save that for the purpose of this part only the term commence includes
operations consisting site clearance, demolition work, archaeological
investigations, environmental surveys, investigations for the purposes of
assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of any contamination or
other adverse ground conditions, diversion and laying of services, erection of
any temporary means of enclosure and temporary hard standing; “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such
interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry
out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the
terms of this part; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “ ground
mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures
(if any) for a ground subsidence event; “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a
scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is
to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the
manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
must require the promoter to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence
identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring
scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme
as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land;
“maintain” and “maintenance” include the ability and right to do any of the
following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of National
Grid including construct use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus; “ National Grid ” means, as appropriate— National Grid Electricity
Transmission PLC (Company No. 2366977) whose registered office is at 1-3
Strand, London, WC2N 5EH and any successor to their licence under Part 1 of
the Electricity Act 1989; and National Grid Gas PLC (Company No. 200600) whose
registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH and any successor to
their licence under Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 or their successor
company(ies). “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications,
method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments
and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to
describe and assess the works to be executed; “ promoter ” means the
undertaker as defined in article 2 of this Order; “ specified works ” means
any of the authorised works or activities undertaken in association with the
authorised works which: will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres
measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been
required by the promoter under paragraph 17(2) or otherwise; may in any way
adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by
the promoter under paragraph 17(2) or otherwise; or include any of the
activities that are referred to in paragraph 8 of T/SP/SSW/22 (National Grid’s
policies for safe working in proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for
safe working in the vicinity of National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and
associated installation requirements for third parties”).

14

14.1

Except for paragraphs 15 (apparatus in stopped up streets), 20 (retained
apparatus: protection), 21 (expenses) and 22 (compensation) of this Schedule
which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the
Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other
provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the promoter and National Grid are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

14.2

Notwithstanding Art 25(5) or any other powers in the Order generally, s85 of
the 1991 Act in relation to costs sharing and the powers in respect of cost
sharing generally including the regulations made thereunder does not apply in
relation to any diversion of apparatus of National Grid under the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of Undertakers in stopped up streets

15

Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under
the powers of article 10 (temporary stopping up of streets), National Grid
will be at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such
stopped up highway or to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or
under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable
it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion
was in that highway.

###### Acquisition of land

16

16.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plan
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the promoter may not
acquire any land interest or apparatus or override any easement and/or other
interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement, such agreement not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

16.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in paragraph 16(1), prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between the undertaker and the promoter) that are
subject to the requirements of this Part that will cause any conflict with or
breach the terms of any easement and/or other legal or land interest of the
undertaker and/or affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and the promoter in respect of
any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the promoter,
the promoter must as the undertaker reasonably and necessarily requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the promoter acting reasonably and which must be no
less favourable on the whole to the undertaker unless otherwise agreed by the
undertaker, and it will be the responsibility of the promoter to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised works.

16.3

The promoter and the undertaker agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part relating to the
relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including but not limited to the
payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation and/or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by the undertaker and/or other
enactments relied upon by the undertaker as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

16.4

Any agreement or consent granted by the undertaker under paragraph 19 or 20 or
any other paragraph of this Part, must not be taken to constitute agreement
under sub-paragraph 16(1).

###### Removal of apparatus

17

17.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 16
or in any other authorised manner, the promoter acquires any interest in any
land in which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed
under this Part and any right of an undertaker to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in question in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5) inclusive.

17.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the promoter requires
the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to National
Grid 56 days’ advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the promoter must, subject to
sub-paragraph (3), afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph 18(1) below) the necessary facilities and
rights:

17.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the promoter; and

17.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

17.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the promoter, or the
promoter is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the promoter, as soon as possible take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the
necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus
is to be constructed, with the promoter’s assistance if required by National
Grid, save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

17.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
promoter under this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the promoter.

17.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
promoter to be removed under the provisions of this Part.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

18

18.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part, the promoter affords to
or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in land for the
construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the promoter
and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid, acting reasonably

18.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the promoter and agreed with
National Grid under paragraph 18(1) above in respect of any alternative
apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and
rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid
than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be
removed and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject in the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 26 (Arbitration) of this Part and the arbitrator may make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the promoter to National Grid as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case

###### Retained apparatus: protection Gas Undertakers

19

19.1

The promoter must provide technical information relevant to any specified
works to National Grid as soon as reasonably practicable after it becomes
available, and will seek to liaise with National Grid as early as reasonably
practicable regarding the specified works.

19.2

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
promoter must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

19.3

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (2) must include
a method statement and describe—

19.3.a

the exact position of the works;

19.3.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

19.3.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

19.3.d

the position of all apparatus;

19.3.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

19.3.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

19.4

The promoter must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) and (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

19.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)—

19.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

19.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

19.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) and/or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus provided that such
modifications are requested by National Grid within a period of 56 days,
unless otherwise agreed between the parties, beginning with the date on which
the plan under sub-paragraph (2) is submitted to it. For the avoidance of
doubt, provided that any further iterations of the plan submitted to National
Grid for approval as a result of modifications required under this paragraph
are not materially different to the modifications previously made by National
Grid, any further required modifications will be made by the promoter as soon
as reasonably practicable thereafter and in any event within 56 days of
receipt of any further plans.

19.7

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (2) or as relevant sub paragraph (6),
as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the promoter
and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by National Grid for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

19.8

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the promoter (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grids’ reasonable satisfaction prior to the commencement of any
authorised works (or any relevant part thereof) for which protective works are
required and National Grid must give 56 days’ notice of such works from the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) or (3) (except in
an emergency).

19.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the promoter, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the promoter of that
requirement, paragraphs 12 to 14 and 17 to 19 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the promoter under paragraph 17(2).

19.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the promoter from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

19.11

The promoter will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (2) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must—

19.11.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

19.11.b

comply with sub-paragraph (12) at all times.

19.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order the
promoter must comply with National Grid’s policies for safe working in
proximity to gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of
National Grid, High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation
requirements for third parties T/SP/SSW22” and HSE’s “HS(~G)47 Avoiding Danger
from underground services”.

19.13

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the promoter must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that National Grid retains the right
to carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of
its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 21.

###### Retained apparatus: protection Electricity Undertakers

20

20.1

The promoter must provide technical information relevant to any specified
works to National Grid as soon as reasonably practicable after it becomes
available, and will seek to liaise with National Grid as early as reasonably
practicable regarding the specified works.

20.2

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works, the
promoter must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

20.3

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and
describe—

20.3.a

the exact position of the works;

20.3.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

20.3.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

20.3.d

the position of all apparatus;

20.3.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

20.3.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

20.3.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

20.4

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

20.4.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

20.4.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

20.4.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

20.4.d

details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

20.4.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of the cable route;

20.4.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable,
including frequency and method of access;

20.4.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

20.4.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to 26 tonnes to take
the weight of overhead line construction traffic.

20.5

The promoter must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (3) or (4)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

20.6

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraphs (3) or (4)—

20.6.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (7) or (9); and

20.6.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

20.7

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (3) or (4) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus

20.8

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (2) or as relevant sub-paragraph (3),
(4) or (7), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the promoter and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (7) or (9) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

20.9

Where National Grid requires any protective works to be carried out by itself
or by the promoter (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such
protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved
as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out
to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised
works (or any relevant part thereof) for which protective works are required
and National Grid must give 56 days’ notice of such works from the date of
submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

20.10

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (7) or (9) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the promoter, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the promoter of that
requirement, paragraphs 12 to 14 and 17 to 19 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the promoter under paragraph 17(2).

20.11

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the promoter from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

20.12

The promoter will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to National Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and
a plan of those works and must—

20.12.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (7), (8) and (9) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

20.12.b

comply with sub-paragraph (13) at all times.

20.13

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
promoter must comply with National Grid’s policies for development near
overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of danger from
Overhead Lines”.

###### Expenses

21

21.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the promoter must pay
to National Grid on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably and
properly anticipated or incurred by National Grid in or in connection with the
inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any
apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be
required in consequence of the execution of any authorised works as are
referred to in this Part including without limitation—

21.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

21.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 17(3); and/or

21.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

21.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any necessary diversion
work or the provision of any alternative apparatus;

21.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

21.1.d

the approval of plans;

21.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; and

21.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part.

21.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part and which is not
re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value being calculated
after removal.

21.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

21.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

21.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the promoter or, in default of agreement, is not determined by arbitration
in accordance with article 38 (arbitration) of the Order to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had
been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth,
as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be
payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be reduced by the
amount of that excess save where it is not possible in the circumstances to
obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same capacity and dimensions or
place at the existing depth in which case full costs will be borne by the
promoter.

21.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

21.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

21.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

21.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid
any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in
the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Compensation

22

22.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part or in consequence of
the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised works
by or on behalf of the promoter or in consequence of any act or default of the
promoter (or any person employed or authorised by him) in the course of
carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried out by the
promoter under this Part or any subsidence resulting from any of these works,
any damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised works) or property of
National Grid, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay
any amount to any third party or National Grid incurs any liability as a
result of the transfer of undertaking under article 5, the promoter will—

22.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by National Grid in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

22.1.b

compensate National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

22.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the promoter or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the promoter from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to carry
out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

22.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the promoter in respect
of—

22.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents; and

22.3.b

any authorised works or any other works authorised by this Part carried out by
National Grid as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the promoter with the
benefit of this Order pursuant to section 156 (benefit of order granting
development consent) of the Planning Act 2008 or article 6 (benefit of the
order) subject to the proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new
apparatus”), any authorised works yet to be executed and not falling within
this sub-section 3(b) will be subject to the full terms of this Part including
this paragraph 22; and

22.3.c

National Grid must give the promoter reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise must, unless payment is
required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be made without
first consulting the promoter and considering their representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

23

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part or by
agreement in writing between National Grid and the promoter, nothing in this
Part affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between the promoter and National Grid in respect of any apparatus
laid or erected in land belonging to the promoter on the date on which this
Order is made.

###### Co-operation

24

24.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
works, the promoter or an undertaker requires the removal of apparatus under
paragraph 17(2) or an undertaker makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 19, the promoter must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best endeavours to
co-operate with the promoter for that purpose.

24.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s consent, agreement or
approval to is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by National Grid or the taking of action by National Grid, it must
not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

25

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 16(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the promoter must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

26

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 17(2), 17(4), 18(1),
19 and 20 any difference or dispute arising between the promoter and National
Grid under this Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
promoter and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article 38 (arbitration).

###### Notices

27

The plans submitted to National Grid by the promoter pursuant to paragraph 19
and 20 must be sent to National Grid Plant Protection at
plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the promoter
in writing.

##### For the Protection of Cadent Gas Limited as Gas Undertaker

###### Application

28

For the protection of Cadent referred to in this Part the following provisions
will, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the promoter and Cadent ,
have effect.

###### Interpretation

29

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the satisfaction of
Cadent to enable the Cadent to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no
less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means any mains, pipes pressure
governors, ventilators, cathodic protections cables or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by Cadent for the purposes of gas distribution and
supply together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus
constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of Cadent
for the purposes of distribution and/or supply and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to the term
“authorised development” in article 2 of this Order and includes any
associated development authorised by the Order and for the purposes of this
Part includes the use and maintenance of the authorised works and construction
of any works authorised by this Schedule; “ Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited
and/or its successors in title and/or any successor as a gas transporter
within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 “ commence ” has the same
meaning as in article 2 of this Order and commencement must be construed to
have the same meaning save that for the purpose of this part only the term
commence includes operations consisting site clearance, demolition work,
archaeological investigations, environmental surveys, investigations for the
purposes of assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, diversion and laying of
services, erection of any temporary means of enclosure and temporary hard
standing; “ deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement,
deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting
reasonably in order to vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements,
enactments and other such interests so as to secure land rights and interests
as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a
manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme
approved by Cadent (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed)
setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event; “
ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence
which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the
extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be
monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, must require the promoter to submit for
Cadent’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence event ”
means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in
the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the
ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land; “maintain” and “maintenance” include the ability and right to
do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus
of Cadent including retain, lay, construct, maintain, protect, access,
enlarge, replace, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew, decommission or render
unusable or remove the apparatus; “plan” or “plans” include all designs,
drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be
executed; “ promoter ” means the undertaker as defined in article 2 of this
Order; “ specified works ” means any of the authorised works or activities
undertaken in association with the authorised works which: will or may be
situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the promoter under paragraph
33(2) or otherwise; may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal
of which has not been required by the promoter under paragraph 33(2) or
otherwise; or include any of the activities that are referred to in paragraphs
6 and 7 of SSW/22 (“Specification for safe working in the vicinity of Cadent’s
assets – requirements for third parties”).

###### On Street Apparatus

30

30.1

Except for paragraphs 31 (apparatus in stopped up streets), 33 (Removal of
Apparatus) insofar as sub-paragraph 3(2) applies, 34 (Facilities and Rights
for Alternative Apparatus) insofar as sub-paragraph 3(2) applies, 35 (retained
apparatus: protection), 36 (expenses) and 37 (compensation) of this Schedule
which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the
Order affecting the rights and apparatus of Cadent, the other provisions of
this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the promoter and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of
the 1991 Act.

30.2

Paragraphs 34 and 35 of this Schedule apply to diversions when where carried
out under the 1991 Act, in circumstance where any apparatus is diverted from
an alignment within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly
replaced within existing adopted public highway

30.3

Notwithstanding Art 25(5) or any other powers in the Order generally, s85 of
the 1991Act in relation to costs sharing and the powers in respect of cost
sharing generally including the regulations made thereunder does not apply in
relation to any diversion of apparatus of Cadent under the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of Undertakers in stopped up streets

31

Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under
the powers of article 11 (temporary stopping up of streets), Cadent will be at
liberty at all times to take all necessary access across any such stopped up
highway and/or to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under
any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to
maintain any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was
in that highway

###### Acquisition of land

32

32.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plan
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the promoter may not
acquire or appropriate any land interest or apparatus or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement and/or other interest of
Cadent otherwise than by agreement

32.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the promoter) that are subject
to the requirements of this Part that will cause any conflict with or breach
the terms of any easement and/or other legal or land interest of the
undertaker and/or affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the promoter in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the promoter, the
promoter must as Cadent reasonably and necessarily requires enter into such
deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
Cadent and the promoter acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable
on the whole to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by the undertaker, and it will
be the responsibility of the promoter to procure and/or secure the consent and
entering into of such deeds and variations by all other third parties with an
interest in the land at that time who are affected by such authorised works.

32.3

The promoter and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part relating to the
relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including but not limited to the
payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation and/or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by the undertaker and/or other
enactments relied upon by the undertaker as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

32.4

Any agreement or consent granted by the undertaker under paragraph 35 or any
other paragraph of this Part, must not be taken to constitute agreement under
sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

33

33.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 32
or in any other authorised manner, the promoter acquires any interest in any
land in which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed
under this Part and any right of an undertaker to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of Cadent in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5) inclusive.

33.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the promoter requires
the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to Cadent
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the work
proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably needs to remove
any of its apparatus) the promoter must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford
to Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 34(1) below) the
necessary facilities and rights

33.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the promoter; and

33.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

33.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the promoter, or the
promoter is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the promoter, as soon as possible take such steps
as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed, with the promoter’s assistance if required by Cadent, save that
this obligation does not extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its
compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it elects to so do.

33.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
promoter under this Part must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the promoter.

33.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of any such facilities
and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the promoter to
be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

34

34.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
promoter affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the promoter and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole to
Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by Cadent

34.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the promoter and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) above in respect of any alternative apparatus,
and the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are
to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject
in the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 41
(Arbitration) of this Part and the arbitrator may make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the promoter to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case

###### Retained apparatus: protection Gas Undertakers

35

35.1

The promoter must provide technical information relevant to any specified
works to Cadent as soon as reasonably practicable after it becomes available,
and will seek to liaise with Cadent as early as reasonably practicable
regarding the specified works.

35.2

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
promoter must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent, a
ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

35.3

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph (2) must include a
method statement and describe—

35.3.a

the exact position of the works;

35.3.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

35.3.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

35.3.d

the position of all apparatus;

35.3.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

35.3.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

35.4

The promoter must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) and (3)
apply until Cadent has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

35.5

Any approval of Cadent required under sub-paragraph (4)—

35.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

35.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

35.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (1) and/or (2) apply, Cadent
may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be reasonably
necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against interference or
risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing proper and
convenient means of access to any apparatus provided that such modifications
are requested by Cadent within a period of 56 days, unless otherwise agreed
between the parties, beginning with the date on which the plan under sub-
paragraph (1) is submitted to it. For the avoidance of doubt, provided that
any further iterations of the plan submitted to Cadent for approval as a
result of modifications required under this paragraph are not materially
different to the modifications previously made by Cadent, any further required
modifications will be made by the promoter as soon as reasonably practicable
thereafter and in any event within 56 days of receipt of any further plans.

35.7

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (2) or as relevant sub paragraph (6),
as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the promoter
and Cadent and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be made
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by Cadent for the alteration or
otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it,
and Cadent will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

35.8

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the promoter (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any authorised works (or any
relevant part thereof) for which protective works are required and Cadent must
give 56 days’ notice of such works from the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to sub-paragraph (2) or (3) (except in an emergency).

35.9

If Cadent in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in consequence of
the works proposed by the promoter, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the promoter of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs (1) to (3) and (6) to (8) apply as if the removal of the apparatus
had been required by the promoter under paragraph 33(2).

35.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the promoter from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

35.11

The promoter will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that case
it must give to Cadent notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan
of those works and must—

35.11.a

comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

35.11.b

comply with sub-paragraph (12) at all times.

35.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order the
promoter must comply with Cadent’s policies for safe working in proximity to
gas apparatus “Specification for safe working in the vicinity of Cadent’s,
High pressure Gas pipelines and associated installation requirements for third
parties SPGD//SP/SSW22” and HSE’s “HS(~G)47 Avoiding Danger from underground
services”.

35.13

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the promoter must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that Cadent retains the right to
carry out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of its
apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 37.

###### Expenses

36

36.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the promoter must pay
to Cadent on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably and properly
anticipated or incurred by Cadent in or in connection with the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised works as are referred to in
this Part including without limitation —

36.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by Cadent
as a consequence of Cadent;

36.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 33(3); and/or

36.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

36.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any necessary diversion
work or the provision of any alternative apparatus;

36.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

36.1.d

the approval of plans;

36.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; and

36.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part.

36.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part and which is not
re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value being calculated
after removal.

36.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part—

36.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

36.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the promoter or, in default of agreement, is not determined by arbitration
in accordance with article 38 (arbitration) to be necessary, then, if such
placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part exceeding
that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed had been of the
existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing depth, as the case
may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to
Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be reduced by the amount of that
excess save where it is not possible in the circumstances to obtain the
existing type of apparatus at the same capacity and dimensions or place at the
existing depth in which case full costs will be borne by the promoter.

36.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

36.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

36.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

36.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Compensation

37

37.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part or in consequence of
the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised works
by or on behalf of the promoter or in consequence of any act or default of the
promoter (or any person employed or authorised by him) in the course of
carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried out by the
promoter under this Part or any subsidence resulting from any of these works,
any damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised works) or property of
Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply
of any goods, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to any
third party or Cadent incurs any liability as a result of the transfer of
undertaking under article 6, the promoter will—

37.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good
such damage or restoring the supply; and

37.1.b

compensate Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from Cadent, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption or Cadent becoming liable to
any third party as aforesaid other than arising from any default of Cadent.

37.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
promoter or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance with
any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision will not (unless sub-
paragraph (3) applies), excuse the promoter from liability under the
provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless Cadent fails to carry out and
execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and
workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved
plan.

37.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the promoter in respect
of—

37.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;
and

37.3.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part carried
out by Cadent as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the promoter with the
benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the Planning Act 2008 or
article 6 (consent to transfer benefit of order) subject to the proviso that
once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any authorised works yet
to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph 3(b) will be subject
to the full terms of this Part including this paragraph 37.

37.4

Cadent must give the promoter reasonable notice of any such third party claim
or demand and no settlement or compromise must, unless payment is required in
connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be made without first
consulting the promoter and considering their representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

38

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part or by
agreement in writing between Cadent and the promoter, nothing in this Part
affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the relations
between the promoter and Cadent in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in
land belonging to the promoter on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

39

39.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
works, the promoter or an undertaker requires the removal of apparatus under
paragraph 33(2) or an undertaker makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 35, the promoter must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the promoter for that purpose.

39.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s consent, agreement or
approval to is required in relation to plans, documents or other information
submitted by Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

40

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 32(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the promoter must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

41

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph 33(2), 33(4), 34(1),
35 and 36 any difference or dispute arising between the promoter and Cadent
under this Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the promoter
and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article 38
(arbitration).

###### Notices

42

The plans submitted to Cadent by the promoter pursuant to paragraph 35 must be
sent to National Grid Plant Protection at plantprotection@cadent.com or such
other address as Cadent may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose
and notify to the promoter in writing.

##### Protection for Operators of Electronic Communications Code Networks

43

43.1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions shall, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator, have
effect.

43.2

In this Part—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ conduit system ” has
the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to
providing a conduit system is construed in accordance with paragraph 1(3A) of
that code; “ electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in
the electronic communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has
the same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 2003 Act ; “ electronic
communications code network ” means— so much of an electronic communications
network or conduit system provided by an electronic communications code
operator as is not excluded from the application of the electronic
communications code by a direction under section 106 (application of the
electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and an electronic
communications network which the Secretary of State is providing or proposing
to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a person in
whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a direction under
section 106 of the 2003 Act; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

44

The exercise of the powers of article 29 (statutory undertakers) are subject
to Part 10 of Schedule 3A (the electronic communications code) to the 2003 Act
.

45

45.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or their construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

45.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works, or
other property of an operator); or

45.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator, the undertaker shall bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by
the operator in making good such damage or restoring the supply and must—

45.1.b.i

make reasonable compensation to an operator for loss sustained by it; and

45.1.b.ii

indemnify an operator against claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages and
expenses which may be made or taken against, or recovered from, or incurred
by, an operator by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

45.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) shall impose any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

45.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand shall be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent,
shall have the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

45.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this
paragraph shall be referred to and settled by arbitration under article 38
(arbitration).

46

This Part does not apply to—

46.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

46.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

47

Nothing in this Part shall affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator in respect of
any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date
on which this Order is made.

##### Protection of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited

48

The following provisions of this Schedule have effect, unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and  Network Rail  and, in the case of
paragraph  62  any other person on whom rights or obligations are conferred by
that paragraph.

49

In this Part—

“ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and reconstruction
and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings; “ the engineer
” means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;
“ network licence ” means the network licence, as is amended from time to
time, granted to Network Rail by the Secretary of State in exercise of powers
under section 8 (licences) of the Railways Act l993 ; “ Network Rail ” means
Network Rail Infrastructure Limited and any associated company of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited which holds property for railway purposes, and for the
purpose of this definition “ associated company ” means any company which is
(within the meaning of section 1159  (meaning of “ subsidiary ” etc.)  of the
Companies Act 2006  the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited or another
subsidiary of the holding company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited; “
plans ” includes sections, designs, design data, software, drawings,
specifications, soil reports, calculations, descriptions (including
descriptions of methods of construction), staging proposals, programmes and
details of the extent, timing and duration of any proposed occupation of
railway property; “ railway operational procedures ” means procedures
specified under any access agreement (as defined in the Railways Act 1993) or
station lease; “ railway property ” means any railway belonging to Network
Rail and — any station, land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to
Network Rail or connected with any such railway; and any easement or other
property interest held or used by Network for the purposes of such railway or
works, apparatus or equipment; and “ specified work ” means so much of any of
the authorised development as is situated upon, across, under, over or within
15 metres of, or may in any way adversely affect, railway property.

50

50.1

Where under this Part Network Rail is required to give its consent or approval
in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is subject to the condition
that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway operational procedures
and any obligations under its network licence or under statute.

50.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

50.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

50.2.b

use their reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development under this Order.

51

51.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by—

51.1.a

article 15 (discharge of water  and works to watercourses );

51.1.b

article 16 (authority to survey and investigate the land onshore);

51.1.c

article 18 (compulsory acquisition of land);

51.1.d

article 20 (compulsory acquisition of rights and the imposition of restrictive
covenants);

51.1.e

article 21 ( private rights );

51.1.f

article 24 (acquisition of subsoil and airspace only);

51.1.g

article 26 ( temporary use of land  for carrying out the authorised project);

51.1.h

article 27 (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised projectt);

51.1.i

article 28 (extinguishment of private rights and restrictive covenants
relating to apparatus removed from land  subject to temporary possession );

51.1.j

article 29(b) (statutory undertakers) (where relevant);

51.1.k

article 35 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows); and

51.1.l

article 36 (trees subject to tree preservation orders);

or the powers conferred by section 11(3) of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) in
respect of any railway property unless the exercise of such powers is with the
consent of Network Rail.

51.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the consent of Network Rail.

51.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271 or 272
of the 1990 Act, or article 29 (statutory undertakers), in relation to any
right of access of Network Rail to railway property, but such right of access
may be diverted with the consent of Network Rail.

51.4

The undertaker must not under the powers conferred by this Order acquire or
use or acquire new rights over, or seek to impose any restrictive covenants
over, any railway property, or extinguish any existing rights of Network Rail
in respect of any third party property except with the consent of Network
Rail.

51.5

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions.

52

52.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer (or deemed approved under sub-paragraph (2)) or
settled by arbitration under article 38 (Arbitration) (as varied by paragraph
69 of this Part of this Schedule).

52.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld or delayed, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with
the date on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer
has not intimated disapproval of those plans and the grounds of disapproval
the undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the
engineer to intimate approval or disapproval within a further period of 28
days beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice
from the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has
not intimated approval or disapproval, the engineer is deemed to have approved
the plans as submitted.

52.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker.

52.4

When signifying approval of the plans the engineer may specify any protective
works (whether temporary or permanent) which in the engineer’s opinion should
be carried out before the commencement of the construction of a specified work
to ensure the safety or stability of railway property or the continuation of
safe and efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail or the services
of operators using the same (including any relocation de-commissioning and
removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a specified work and
the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by the specified
works ), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary for those
purposes may be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker, if Network
Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at the expense
of the undertaker in either case without unnecessary delay and the undertaker
must not commence the construction of the specified works until the engineer
has notified the undertaker that the protective works have been completed to
the engineer’s reasonable satisfaction.

53

53.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 52(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

53.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph  52;

53.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

53.1.c

in such  manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

53.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

53.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction is
caused by the carrying out of or in consequence of the construction of a
specified work, the undertaker must, regardless of any approval, make good
such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which
Network Rail may be put and compensation for loss which it may sustain by
reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

53.3

Nothing in this Part imposes any liability on the undertaker with respect to
any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the negligence of Network
Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any liability on Network Rail
with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors or agents.

54

The undertaker must—

54.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

54.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

55

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part during their construction and must supply the undertaker with such
information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works or the
method of constructing them.

56

56.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property are
reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified work,
or during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work in order to
ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe operation of the
railway of Network Rail or the services of operators using the same, such
alterations and additions may be carried out by Network Rail and if Network
Rail gives to the undertaker reasonable notice of its intention to carry out
such alterations or additions (which must be specified in the notice), the
undertaker must pay to Network Rail the reasonable cost of those alterations
or additions including, in respect of any such alterations and additions as
are to be permanent, a capitalised sum representing the increase of the costs
which may be expected to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail in
maintaining, working and, when necessary, renewing any such alterations or
additions.

56.2

If during the construction of a specified work by the undertaker, Network Rail
gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to construct
that part of the specified work which in the opinion of the engineer is
endangering the stability of railway property or the safe operation of traffic
on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of
the specified work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction
of that part of the specified work and the undertaker must, notwithstanding
any such approval of a specified work under paragraph 52(3), pay to Network
Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may be put and compensation
for loss which it may suffer by reason of the execution by Network Rail of
that specified work.

56.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph 57(a) provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

56.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

57

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

57.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph 52(3) or in constructing any protective works under the
provisions of paragraph 52(4) including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

57.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work;

57.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signallers, watch-persons and other persons whom it shall be reasonably
necessary to appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway
property and for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable,
interference, obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or
failure of a specified work;

57.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or from the substitution or diversion of services which may be reasonably
necessary for the same reason; and

57.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work.

58

58.1

In this paragraph—

“ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and “ Network Rail’s apparatus ”
means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or equipment (whether or not
modified or installed as part of the authorised development) which are owned
or used by Network Rail for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic, telephonic, electric, electronic
or other like means of signalling or other communications.

58.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph 52(1) for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

58.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take measures reasonably necessary
to prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

58.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)—

58.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph 52(1)) in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

58.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

58.4.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

58.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail, and in relation to such modifications
paragraph 52(1) has effect subject to this sub-paragraph.

58.6

If at any time prior to the commencement of regular revenue-earning operations
comprised in the authorised development and regardless of any measures adopted
under sub-paragraph (3), the testing or commissioning of the authorised
development causes EMI then the undertaker shall immediately upon receipt of
notification by Network Rail of such EMI either in writing or communicated
orally (such oral communication to be confirmed in writing as soon as
reasonably practicable after it has been issued) forthwith cease to use (or
procure the cessation of use of) the undertaker’s apparatus causing such EMI
until necessary measures have been taken to remedy such EMI by way of
modification to the source of such EMI or (in the circumstances, and subject
to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph (5)) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

58.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

58.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

58.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI; and

58.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI.

58.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs (5) or (6)—

58.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus; and

58.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph 53.

58.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
62(1) applies, subject to paragraphs 62(2) to 62(6), to the costs and expenses
reasonably incurred or losses suffered by Network Rail through the
implementation of the provisions of this paragraph (including costs incurred
in connection with the consideration of proposals, approval of plans,
supervision and inspection of works and facilitating access to Network Rail’s
apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI to which sub-paragraph (6) applies.

58.10

For the purpose of paragraph 57(a) any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

59

If at any time after the completion of a specified work, not being a work
vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker informing
it that the state of maintenance of any part of the specified work appears to
be such as adversely affects the operation of railway property, the undertaker
must, on receipt of such notice, take such steps as may be reasonably
necessary to put that specified work in such state of maintenance as not
adversely to affect railway property.

60

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work in the vicinity of any railway
belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network Rail and it
must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for preventing
confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal and any
railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or securing the
safety of traffic on the railway.

61

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work must,
provided that 56 days’ previous notice of the commencement of such alteration,
reconstruction or maintenance has been given to the undertaker, be repaid by
the undertaker to Network Rail.

62

62.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Schedule which may be
occasioned to or reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

62.1.a

by reason of the construction or maintenance of a specified work or the
failure thereof; or

62.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work;

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or any such failure, act or omission; and the fact that any act
or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of the undertaker or in
accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in accordance with any
requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s supervision shall not  (if
it was done without negligence on the part of Network Rail or of any person in
its employ or of its contractors or agents) excuse the undertaker from any
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph.

62.2

Network Rail must give the undertaker reasonable written notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise of such a claim or demand
shall be made without the prior consent of the undertaker.

62.3

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall if relevant
include a sum equivalent to the relevant costs.

62.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

62.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
is, in the event of default, to be enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub ‑paragraph  (4).

62.6

In this paragraph—

“ the relevant costs ” means the costs, direct losses and expenses (including
loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a  consequence
of any restriction of the use of Network Rail’s railway network as a result of
the construction, maintenance or failure of a specified work or any such act
or omission as mentioned in sub-paragraph (1); and “ train operator ” means
any person who is authorised to act as the operator of a train by a licence
under section 8 of the Railways Act 1993.

63

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Schedule (including the amount of the relevant
costs mentioned in paragraph 62) and with such information as may reasonably
enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such estimate or
claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part (including any claim relating
to those relevant costs).

64

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Schedule
there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed that is
attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by Network
Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was taken or
entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by the
undertaker under this Schedule or increasing the sums so payable.

65

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

65.a

any railway property shown on the works and land plans and described in the
book of reference;

65.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

65.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

66

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I  (the provision of
services)  of the Railways Act 1993.

67

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 6 (transfer of benefit of Order) of this Order in relation to
railway property or any specified works and any such notice must be given no
later than 28 days before any such application is made and must describe or
give (as appropriate)—

67.a

the nature of the application to be made;

67.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

67.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

68

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans
submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance with
article 37 (certification of plans etc.) are certified by the Secretary of
State, provide a set of those plans to Network Rail in electronic form
specified by Network Rail.

69

In relation to any dispute arising under this Part that is referred to
arbitration in accordance with article 38 (arbitration) of this Order, the
parties agree that the timetable referred to within Paragraph 3 of Schedule 14
(Arbitration Rules) will be amended where Network Rail can demonstrate that it
is unable (acting reasonably) to comply with the time limit due to timing
constraints that may arise for Network Rail in obtaining clearance conditions
and/or any engineering regulatory or stakeholder (internal or external)
consents and/or assessing any matters of concern with regards to the safe
operation of the railway.

##### For the Protection of Anglian Water Services Limited

70

70.1

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions shall, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water, have
effect.

70.2

In this Part —

“ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited (company number
02366656) whose registered office is at Lancaster House, Lancaster Way, Ermine
Business Park, Huntington, Cambridgeshire PE29 6XU; “ apparatus ” means any
works, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Anglian
Water for the purposes of water supply and sewerage and any drain or works
vested in Anglian Water under The Water Industry Act 1991, any sewer which is
so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under
section 102(4)  (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of The Water Industry
Act 1991 or an agreement to adopt made under section 104  (agreements to adopt
sewer, drain or sewage disposal works at future date) of that Act, and
includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall and any manholes,
ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any sewer,
drain, or works (within the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of
that Act) and any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus. “ alternative apparatus ” means
alternative apparatus adequate to enable Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory
functions in not less efficient a manner than previously; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ” includes sections, drawings,
specifications and method statements; and “ undertaker ” means the undertaker
under article 2 of this Order.

70.3

The undertaker must not interfere with, build over or near to any apparatus
within the Order Land or execute the placing, installation, bedding, packing,
removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any filling
around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within the
standard protection strips which are the strips of land falling the following
distances to either side of the medial line of any relevant pipe or apparatus—

70.3.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres, 3
metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres,

70.3.b

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 450 and 750 millimetres;
and

70.3.c

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres

unless otherwise agreed in writing with Anglian Water, such agreement not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and such provision being brought to the
attention of any agent or contractor responsible for carrying out any work on
behalf of the undertaker.

70.4

The alteration, extension, removal or re-location of any apparatus must not be
implemented until—

70.4.a

any requirement for any permits under the Environmental Permitting Regulations
(England and Wales) 2016 or other legislations and any other associated
consents are obtained, and any approval or agreement required from Anglian
Water on alternative outfall locations as a result of such re-location are
approved, such approvals from Anglian Water not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and

70.4.b

the undertaker has made the appropriate application required under the Water
Industry Act 1991 together with a plan and section of the works proposed and
Anglian Water has agreed all of the contractual documentation required under
the Water Industry Act 1991, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed; and such works to be executed only in accordance with the plan,
section and description submitted and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made by Anglian Water for the alteration or otherwise
for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it.

70.5

In the situation, where in exercise of the powers conferred by the Order, the
undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which Apparatus is placed and
such apparatus is to be relocated, extended, removed or altered in any way, no
alteration or extension shall take place until Anglian Water has established
to its reasonable satisfaction, contingency arrangements in order to conduct
its functions for the duration of the works to relocate, extend, remove or
alter the apparatus. Anglian Water must use all reasonable endeavours to
establish contingency arrangements in a timely manner.

70.6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on any plan, the
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement, and
before extinguishing any existing rights for Anglian Water to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain its apparatus in the Order land, the undertaker
shall, with the agreement of Anglian Water, create a new right to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain the apparatus that is reasonably convenient for
Anglian Water, such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and
to be subject to arbitration under article 38 (Arbitration).

70.7

If the undertaker is unable to create the new rights referred to in sub-
paragraph (6), Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that
effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible, use its reasonable
endeavours to obtain the necessary rights.

70.8

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed the undertaker shall provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable Anglian
Water to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible
before such obstruction, or alternatively such means of access as may be
agreed with Anglian Water, acting reasonably.

70.9

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order,
previously unmapped sewers, lateral drains or other apparatus are identified
by the company, notification of the location of such assets will immediately
be given to Anglian Water and afforded the same protection as other Anglian
Water assets.

70.10

If for any reason or in consequence of the construction of any of the works
referred to in paragraphs (4) to (6) and (8) above any damage is caused to any
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works) or
property of Anglian Water, or there is any interruption in any service
provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker
must—

70.10.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good any
damage or restoring the supply; and

70.10.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other reasonably
necessary expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by Anglian Water,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

70.11

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without first consulting
the undertaker and considering their representations acting reasonably.

70.12

Nothing in sub-paragraph (10) above imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to—

70.12.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the act,
neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officer, servants, contractors or
agents; and

70.12.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part carried
out by Anglian Water as an assignee, transferee or lessee of the undertaker
with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156 of the Planning Act 2008
or article 6 (Benefit of order) of this Order.

70.13

Anglian Water must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and minimise any
claim, costs, expenses, loss, demands and penalties pursuant to sub-paragraph
(11). If requested to do so by the undertaker, Anglian Water shall provide an
explanation of how the claim has been minimised.

70.14

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Anglian Water
under this Part must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Anglian Water, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article 38 (arbitration).

##### For the protection of the Environment Agency and drainage authorities

71

The provisions of this Part have effect for the protection of a drainage
authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
drainage authority.

72

In this Part—

“ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying
and removal; and “ construct ” and “ constructed ” must be construed
accordingly; “ drainage authority ” means— in relation to an ordinary
watercourse, the drainage board concerned within the meaning of section 23
(prohibitions of obstructions etc in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act
1991 ; and in relation to a main river or any sea defence work, the
Environment Agency; “ drainage work ” means any watercourse and includes any
land that provides or is expected to provide flood storage capacity for any
watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any
appliance, constructed or used for land drainage, flood defence, sea defence
or tidal monitoring; “ ordinary watercourse ” has the meaning given in the
Land Drainage Act 1991 ; “ plans ” includes sections, drawings, specifications
and method statements; “ specified work ” means so much of any work or
operation authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within 16
metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to— affect any drainage work
or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any drainage
work; affect the flow, purity, or quality of water in any watercourse; or
affect the conservation, distribution or use of water resources.

73

73.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the drainage authority plans of the specified work and such further
particulars available to it as the drainage authority may within 28 days of
the submission of the plans reasonably require.

73.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the relevant drainage authority.

73.3

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

73.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

73.3.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 28 days
of the submission of the plans for approval (or submission of further
particulars if required by the drainage authority under sub–paragraph (1)) or,
in the case of a refusal, if it is not accompanied by a statement of the
grounds of refusal; and

73.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the drainage authority
may make for the protection of any drainage work or, where the drainage
authority is the Environment Agency, for the protection of water resources for
the prevention of pollution or in the discharge of its environmental duties.

73.4

The drainage authority must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the
submission of any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in
sub–paragraph (3)(b).

74

Without limiting paragraph 73, the requirements which the drainage authority
may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker at
its own expense to construct such protective works, whether temporary or
permanent, during the construction of the specified work (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

74.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

74.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased, by reason of any
specified work.

75

75.1

Subject to sub–paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 74, must be constructed—

75.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part; and

75.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, and an officer of
the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the construction of
such works.

75.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority—

75.2.a

not less than 14 days’ notice in writing of its intention to commence
construction of any specified work; and

75.2.b

notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is brought into use.

75.3

If the drainage authority reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct
all or part of the protective works so that they are in place before the
construction of the specified work.

75.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the
drainage authority is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the
requirements of this Part, the drainage authority may by notice in writing
require the undertaker at the undertaker’s expense to comply with the
requirements of this Part or (if the undertaker so elects and the drainage
authority in writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work and, where removal is
required, to restore the site to its former condition to such extent and
within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

75.5

Subject to sub–paragraph (6), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub–paragraph (4) is served on
the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply with
the requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably expeditious
progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may execute the
works specified in the notice, and any expenditure incurred by it in so doing
is recoverable from the undertaker.

75.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub–paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub–paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not except in emergency exercise the
powers conferred by sub–paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally
determined.

76

76.1

Subject to sub–paragraph (5) the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of any specified work maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work that is situated within the limits of
deviation on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection
with the specified work, whether or not the drainage work is constructed under
the powers conferred by this Order or is already in existence.

76.2

If any drainage work that the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, the
drainage authority may by notice in writing require the undertaker to repair
and restore the work, or any part of such work, or (if the undertaker so
elects and the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the work and restore the site to
its former condition, to such extent and within such limits as the drainage
authority reasonably requires.

76.3

If, within a reasonable period being not less than 28 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under
sub–paragraph (2) on the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking
steps to comply with the reasonable requirements of the notice and has not
subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, the drainage authority may do what is necessary for such
compliance and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so
doing from the undertaker.

76.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub–paragraph (2), the drainage authority must not except
in a case of emergency exercise the powers conferred by sub–paragraph (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined.

76.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

76.5.a

drainage works that are vested in the drainage authority or that the drainage
authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not prevented by this
Order from so doing; and

76.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part.

77

If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of
any such work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes
is impaired, or the drainage work is otherwise damaged, the impairment or
damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of
the drainage authority and, if the undertaker fails to do so, the drainage
authority may make good the impairment or damage and recover from the
undertaker the expense reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

78

The undertaker must compensate the drainage authority in respect of all costs,
charges and expenses that the drainage authority may reasonably incur, have to
pay or may sustain—

78.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part;

78.b

in inspecting the construction of any specified work or any protective works
required by the drainage authority under this Part; and

78.c

in carrying out of any surveys or tests by the drainage authority that are
reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified work.

79

79.1

Without limiting the other provisions of this Part, the undertaker must
compensate the drainage authority in respect of all claims, demands,
proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss that may be made or taken
against, recovered from or incurred by, the drainage authority by reason of—

79.1.a

any damage to any drainage work so as to impair its efficiency for the
purposes of flood defence;

79.1.b

any raising or lowering of the water table in land adjoining the authorised
development or any sewers, drains and watercourses;

79.1.c

any flooding or increased flooding of any such land; and

79.1.d

where the drainage authority is the Environment Agency, inadequate water
quality in any watercourse or other surface waters or in any groundwater, that
is caused by the construction of any specified work by the undertaker or any
act or omission of the undertaker, its contractors, agents or employees whilst
engaged on the work.

79.2

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand, and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
agreement of the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

80

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved or deemed to be approved by the drainage
authority, or to its satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or
award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the undertaker from any liability
under this Part.

81

Any dispute between the undertaker and the drainage authority under this Part,
if the parties agree, must be determined by arbitration under article 38
(arbitration), but otherwise must be determined by the Secretary of State for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and   the Secretary of State for Energy
Security and Net Zero   acting jointly on a reference to them by the
undertaker or the drainage authority, after notice in writing by one to the
other.

##### For the protection of Ørsted Hornsea Project Three (UK) Ltd

82

The provisions of this Part apply for the protection of Orsted unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Orsted.

83

In this Part—

“ apparatus ” means the cables, structures or other infrastructure owned,
occupied or maintained by Orsted or its successor in title within the Hornsea
Three Order Land; “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering,
replacing, reconstruction, relaying, maintenance, extensions, enlargement and
removal; and “ construct ” and “ constructed ” must be construed accordingly;
“ Crossing Area ” means the land within land parcel 21/08 shown on the land
plan and described in the book of reference; “ Orsted ” means an undertaker
with the benefit of all or part of the Hornsea Three Order for the time being;
“ Hornsea Three Order ” means the development consent order made by the
Secretary of State in relation to Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm following
on 31st December 2020 ; “ Hornsea Three Order land ” means Order land as
defined in the Hornsea Three Order; “ plans ” includes sections, drawings,
specifications, designs, design data, software, soil reports, calculations,
descriptions (including descriptions of methods of construction), staging
proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any
proposed occupation of the Hornsea Three Order land; “ proposed Hornsea Three
Cable Corridor ” means the proposed location for any electrical circuit(s) and
construction compound(s) permitted by the Hornsea Three Order within the
Hornsea Three Order land; “ specified works ” means so much of any works or
operations authorised by this Order (or authorised by any planning permission
intended to operate in conjunction with this Order) as is— within the Crossing
Area; in, on, under, over or within 25 metres of the proposed Hornsea Three
Cable Corridor or any apparatus; or may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus.

84

The consent of Orsted under this Part is not required where the Hornsea Three
Order has expired without the authorised development having been commenced
pursuant to paragraph 1 of Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Hornsea Three Order.

85

Where conditions are included in any consent granted by Orsted pursuant to
this Part, the undertaker must comply with the conditions if it chooses to
implement or rely on the consent, unless the conditions are waived or varied
in writing by Orsted.

86

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order—

86.a

acquire, extinguish, suspend, override or interfere with any rights that
Orsted has in respect of any apparatus or the proposed Hornsea Three Cable
Corridor; or

86.b

acquire the Hornsea Three Order land or acquire any new rights or impose
restrictive covenants or exercise any powers of temporary use over or in
relation to the Hornsea Three Order land without the consent of Orsted, which
must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed but which may be made subject to
reasonable conditions.

87

87.1

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order carry out any specified
works without the consent of Orsted, which must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed but which may be made subject to reasonable conditions and if
Orsted does not respond within 30 days then consent is deemed to be given.

87.2

Subject to obtaining consent pursuant to sub-paragraph (1) and before
beginning to construct any specified works, the undertaker must submit plans
of the specified works to Orsted and must submit such further particulars
available to it that Orsted may reasonably require.

87.3

Any specified works must be constructed without unreasonable delay in
accordance with the plans approved in writing by Orsted.

87.4

Any approval of Orsted required under this paragraph may be made subject to
such reasonable conditions as may be required for the protection or alteration
of any apparatus or the proposed Hornsea Three Cable Corridor or for securing
access to any apparatus or the proposed Hornsea Three Cable Corridor;

87.5

Without limiting sub-paragraph (1), it is not reasonable for Orsted to
withhold or delay any consent or approval under this Part in relation to
specified works in, on, under, or over the Crossing Area solely on the basis
of thermal interaction where the plans of the specified works submitted under
sub-paragraph  (2)  demonstrate that all reasonable steps have been taken to
minimise thermal interaction between the specified works and any apparatus or
the proposed Hornsea Three Cable Corridor.

87.6

Where Orsted requires any protective works to be carried out either by
themselves or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature)
such protective works must be carried out to Orsted’s reasonable satisfaction.

87.7

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any specified works, new plans instead of the plans previously
submitted, and the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to and in respect
of the new plans.

88

88.1

The undertaker must give to Orsted not less than 28 days’ written notice of
its intention to commence the construction of the specified works and, not
more than 14 days after completion of their construction, must give Orsted
written notice of the completion.

88.2

The undertaker is not required to comply with paragraph 87 or sub-paragraph
(1) in a case of emergency, but in that case it must give to the utility
undertaker in question notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan,
section and description of those works as soon as reasonable practicable
subsequently and must comply with paragraph 87 in so far as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

89

The undertaker must at all reasonable times during construction of the
specified works allow Orsted and its servants and agents access to the
specified works and all reasonable facilities for inspection of the specified
works.

90

90.1

After the purpose of any temporary works has been accomplished, the undertaker
must with all reasonable dispatch, or after a reasonable period of notice in
writing from Orsted requiring the undertaker to do so, remove the temporary
works in, on, under, over, or within the Crossing Area.

90.2

If the undertaker fails to remove the temporary works within a reasonable
period of receipt of a notice pursuant to sub-paragraph  (1) , Orsted may
remove the temporary works and may recover the reasonable costs of doing so
from the undertaker.

91

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as will enable Orsted to
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before the
obstruction.

92

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by this Order to prevent
or interfere with the access by Orsted to the proposed Hornsea Three Cable
Corridor.

93

To ensure its compliance with this Part, the undertaker must before carrying
out any works or operations pursuant to this Order within the Crossing Area
request up-to-date written confirmation from Orsted of the location of any
apparatus or the proposed Hornsea Three Cable Corridor.

94

The undertaker and Orsted must each act in good faith and use reasonable
endeavours to co-operate with, and provide assistance to, each other as may be
required to give effect to the provisions of this Part.

95

The undertaker must pay to Orsted the reasonable expenses incurred by Orsted
in connection with the approval of plans, inspection of any specified works or
the alteration or protection of any apparatus or the proposed Hornsea Three
Cable Corridor.

96

96.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any specified works, any damage is caused to any apparatus
or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any
goods, by Orsted, or Orsted becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker must—

96.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Orsted in making good such damage
or restoring the service or supply; and

96.1.b

compensate Orsted for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from Orsted, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption or Orsted becoming liable to
any third party as aforesaid.

96.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Orsted, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents.

96.3

Orsted must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or demand
and no settlement or compromise shall be made, unless payment is required in
connection with a statutory compensation scheme without first consulting the
undertaker and considering its representations.

96.4

Orsted must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in part and
to minimise any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the
indemnity under this paragraph 96 applies. If requested to do so by the
undertaker, Orsted shall provide an explanation of how the claim has been
minimised. The undertaker shall only be liable under this paragraph 96 for
claims reasonably incurred by Orsted.

96.5

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done with the consent of
Orsted and in accordance with any conditions or restrictions prescribed by
Orsted or in accordance with any plans approved by Orsted or to its
satisfaction or in accordance with any directions or award of any arbitrator
does not relieve the undertaker from any liability under this Part.

97

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and Orsted under this Part must be
determined by arbitration under article 38 (arbitration).

  Compensation to protect the coherence of the national site network

Article 45

##### Flamborough and Filey Coast Special Protection Area: Delivery of measures to compensate for kittiwake loss

1

In this Part—

    “ FFC ” means the site designated as the Flamborough and Filey Coast
Special Protection Area;         “ KIMP ” means the kittiwake implementation
and monitoring plan for the delivery of measures to compensate for the
predicted loss of adult kittiwakes from the FFC as a result of the authorised
development;         “ kittiwake compensation plan ” means the relevant
principles for kittiwake compensation set out in the document certified as the
In Principle Habitats Regulations Derogation, Provision of Evidence, Appendix
1 Flamborough and Filey Coast SPA In Principle Compensation by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order under article 37 (Certification of
plans etc); and         “ KSG ” means the Kittiwake Steering Group.

2

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the KSG has been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State. Such
plan must include:

2.a

terms of reference of the KSG:

2.b

details of the membership of the KSG;

2.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the KIMP and
reporting and review periods; and

2.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

3

Following consultation with the KSG, the KIMP must be submitted to and
approved by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the local planning
authority or authorities for the land containing the artificial nest sites,
and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. The KSG must be consulted
further as required during the approval process.

4

The KIMP must include measures to increase the number of adult kittiwakes
available to recruit to the FFC in accordance with the principles contained in
the kittiwake compensation plan, must contain the relevant matters identified
in section 4.6.3 of the kittiwake compensation plan and must include in
particular:

4.a

details of the location where the compensation measures will be delivered and
the suitability of the site to deliver the measures (including why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation);

4.b

details of landowner agreements demonstrating how the land will be bought or
leased and assurances that the land management will deliver the ecology
objectives of the KIMP;

4.c

details of the design of the artificial nest structures, including the
projected number of nests that will be accommodated on the structures, and how
risks from avian or mammalian predation and unauthorised human access will be
mitigated;

4.d

an implementation timetable for the delivery of the artificial nest structures
that ensures all compensation measures are in place to allow four full
kittiwake breeding seasons prior to the operation of any turbine forming part
of the authorised development;

4.e

a maintenance schedule for the artificial nest structures;

4.f

details of the proposed ongoing monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness
of the measures, including: survey methods; success criteria; adaptive
management measures; timescales for the monitoring and monitoring reports to
be delivered; and details of the factors used to trigger alternative
compensation measures and/or adaptive management measures;

4.g

provision for annual reporting to the Secretary of State, to include details
of the number of birds colonising the site including: evidence of birds
prospecting; nesting attempts; egg laying; hatching; and fledging, to identify
barriers to breeding success and target alternative or adaptive compensation
measures;

4.h

details of how natal dispersal and colony interchange with the FFC kittiwake
colony should be investigated, potentially using colour-ringing of chicks; and

4.i

minutes from all consultations with the KSG.

5

The undertaker must implement the measures as set out in the KIMP approved by
the Secretary of State, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of
State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body and
the relevant local planning authority. In particular, no operation of any
turbine forming part of the authorised development may begin until four full
breeding seasons following the implementation of the measures set out in the
KIMP have elapsed. For the purposes of this paragraph each breeding season is
assumed to have commenced on 1 March in each year and ended on 30 September.

6

The undertaker shall notify the Secretary of State of completion of
implementation of the measures set out in the KIMP.

7

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. This
must include details of any finding that the measures have been ineffective in
securing an increase in the number of adult kittiwakes available to recruit to
the FFC and, in such case, proposals to address this. Any proposals to address
effectiveness must thereafter be implemented by the undertaker as approved in
writing by the Secretary of State in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

8

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State or unless the
measures set out in the KIMP have already been delivered, the undertaker must
not commence construction of Work No.1 until it has first—

8.a

provided a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

8.b

put in place either—

8.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

8.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

9

The artificial nest structures installed under this Part must not be
decommissioned without the written approval of the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body. The
artificial nest structures shall be maintained beyond the operational lifetime
of the authorised development if they are colonised, and routine and adaptive
management measures and monitoring must continue whilst the artificial nesting
structures are in place.

10

The approved KIMP includes any amendments that may subsequently be agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body. Any amendments to or variations of the approved KIMP
must be in accordance with the principles set out in the kittiwake
compensation plan and may only be approved where it has been demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it is unlikely to give rise to
any new or materially different environmental effects from those considered in
the kittiwake compensation plan.

11

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the
kittiwake compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the provisions
of this Order shall prevail.

##### Alde-Ore Estuary Special Protection Area: Delivery of measures to compensate for the loss of lesser black-backed gull

12

In this Part—

    “ AOE ” means the site designated as the Alde-Ore Estuary Special
Protection Area;         “ LBBGIMP ” means the lesser black-backed gull
implementation and monitoring plan for the delivery of measures to compensate
for the predicted loss of adult lesser black-backed gull from the AOE as a
result of the authorised development;         “ LBBGSG ” means the Lesser
Black-Backed Gull Steering Group; and         “ lesser black-backed gull
compensation plan ” means the document certified as the In Principle Habitats
Regulations Derogation, Provision of Evidence, Appendix 2 Alde-Ore Estuary SPA
In Principle Compensation by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article 37 (Certification of plans etc).

13

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the LBBGSG has been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State. Such
plan must include:

13.a

terms of reference of the LBBGSG:

13.b

details of the membership of the LBBGSG;

13.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the LBBGIMP
and reporting and review periods; and

13.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

14

Following consultation with the LBBGSG, the LBBGIMP must be submitted to and
approved by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the local planning
authority or authorities for the land containing the predator control fencing,
and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. The LBBGSG must be
consulted further as required during the approval process.

15

The LBBGIMP must include measures to increase the number of adult lesser
black-backed gulls available to recruit to the AOE in accordance with the
principles contained in the lesser black-backed gull compensation plan, must
contain the relevant matters identified in section 4.6.2 of the lesser black-
backed gull compensation plan and must include in particular:

15.a

details of the location where the compensation measures will be delivered and
the suitability of the site to deliver the measures (including why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation);

15.b

details of landowner agreements demonstrating how the land will be bought or
leased and assurances that the land management will deliver the ecology
objectives of the LBBGIMP;

15.c

details of the design of the predator control fencing including the type of
fencing, the area and location of enclosure, and details of any other habitat
management measures;

15.d

an implementation timetable for the delivery of the predator control fencing
and any other habitat management measures that ensures all compensation
measures are in place to allow four full lesser black-backed gull breeding
seasons prior to the operation of any turbine forming part of the authorised
development;

15.e

a fencing maintenance schedule;

15.f

details of the proposed ongoing monitoring and reporting on the effectiveness
of the measures, including: survey methods; success criteria; adaptive
management measures; timescales for the monitoring and monitoring reports to
be delivered; and details of the factors used to trigger alternative
compensation measures and/or adaptive management measures; and

15.g

minutes from all consultations with LBBGSG.

16

The undertaker must implement the measures as set out in the LBBGIMP approved
by the Secretary of State, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body
and the relevant local planning authority. In particular, no operation of any
turbine forming part of the authorised development may begin until four full
breeding seasons following the implementation of the measures set out in the
LBBGIMP have elapsed. For the purposes of this paragraph each breeding season
is assumed to have commenced on 1 March in each year and ended on 30
September.

17

The undertaker shall notify the Secretary of State of completion of
implementation of the measures set out in the LBBGIMP.

18

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. This
must include details of any finding that the measures have been ineffective in
securing an increase in the number of adult lesser black-backed gulls
available to recruit to the AOE and, in such case, proposals to address this.
Any proposals to address effectiveness must thereafter be implemented by the
undertaker as approved in writing by the Secretary of State in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

19

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State or unless the
measures set out in the LBBGIMP have already been delivered, the undertaker
must not commence construction of Work No.1 until it has first—

19.a

provided a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

19.b

put in place either—

19.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

19.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

20

The predator control fencing installed under this Part must not be
decommissioned without the written approval of the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body. The
predator control fencing shall be maintained beyond the operational lifetime
of the authorised development if the site is colonised. The routine and
adaptive management measures, and monitoring should continue whilst the
fencing is in place.

21

The approved LBBGIMP includes any amendments that may subsequently be agreed
in writing by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the relevant
statutory nature conservation body. Any amendments to or variations of the
approved LBBGIMP must be in accordance with the principles set out in the
lesser black-backed gull compensation plan and may only be approved where it
has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it is
unlikely to give rise to any new or materially different environmental effects
from those considered in the LBBGIMP.

22

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the lesser
black-backed gull compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the
provisions of this Order shall prevail.

##### Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton Special Area of Conservation: Delivery of measures to compensate for cable installation and protection

23

In this Part—

    “ BIMP ” means the benthic implementation and monitoring plan for the
delivery of measures to compensate for the cable installation and protection
in the HHW SAC as a result of the authorised development;         “ BSG ”
means the benthic steering group who will shape and inform the scope and
delivery of the BIMP;         “ HHW SAC ” means the Haisborough, Hammond and
Winterton Special Area of Conservation; and         “ HHW SAC compensation
plan ” means the document certified as the In principle Habitats Regulations
Derogation, Provision of Evidence, Appendix 3 Haisborough, Hammond and
Winterton SAC In Principle Compensation by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article 37 (Certification of plans etc).

24

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the BSG has been submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State. Such
plan must include:

24.a

terms of reference of the BSG;

24.b

the membership of the BSG;

24.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the BIMP and
reporting and review periods; and

24.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

25

The BSG must be consulted on the proposed BIMP prior to the submission to the
Secretary of State and must be consulted further as required during the
approval process.

26

The undertaker will meet with and report to the BSG at least annually
throughout the establishment and implementation phases of the BIMP and
document the conclusions of the meetings.

27

The BIMP must be submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the MMO and the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

28

The BIMP must accord with the relevant principles contained in the HHW SAC
compensation plan, must contain the relevant matters identified in paragraph
141 of the HHW SAC compensation plan and must include provision for:

28.a

the identification and retrieval of marine debris; and

28.b

education, awareness and facilities to limit further marine debris,

which are described as Strand 2 and Strand 3 respectively in section 4.3.4 of
the HHW SAC compensation plan.

29

The BIMP must include in particular:

29.a

details of any further survey work required to confirm the presence and
condition of marine debris;

29.b

details of the location, nature and size of material to be removed from the
HHW SAC, which should equate to no less than the area required to compensate
for the predicted effects of cable installation and protection (up to 8.3
hectares) but taking into account the quantum of marine debris removal that
might already have been delivered pursuant to Part 3 of Schedule 19 of the
Norfolk Boreas Development Consent Order by way of compensation for
disturbance to reef habitats where the impact on the HHW SAC is shared by
virtue of the shared cable corridor;

29.c

a method statement for its removal, to include the vessel type, tools used and
mitigation for how impacts on the surrounding habitat will be minimised;

29.d

a programme of works for removal which must ensure that the required area of
marine debris has been removed prior to commencement of any cable installation
works in the HHW SAC;

29.e

proposals for monitoring in accordance with the principles set out in the HHW
SAC compensation plan as well as proposals for reporting of monitoring;

29.f

success criteria, adaptive management measures, details of alternative search
areas outside the HHW SAC to remove the required quantum of marine debris if
the required area cannot be recovered from the HHW SAC itself and details of
further marine debris removal work that might be carried out if the actual
effects of cable installation and protection on the HHW SAC are greater than
anticipated;

29.g

programme of delivery for education, awareness and provision of facilities to
reduce further marine debris from affecting the HHW SAC;

29.h

details of how all impacts to protected reef habitats within the HHW SAC will
be avoided where possible and details of any other mitigations that were
included in the outline Norfolk Vanguard Haisborough, Hammond and Winterton
Special Area of Conservation site integrity plan; and

29.i

details of the locations for the disposal of dredged material, and evidence
that the disposal mechanism will allow sediment to be retained within the
sandbank system and avoid impacts to other features, particularly reef
habitats.

30

The BIMP must be carried out as approved, unless otherwise agreed in writing
by the Secretary of State in consultation with the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body. In particular, no cable installation works
in the HHW SAC may be commenced unless the required area of marine debris has
been removed in accordance with the programme referred to in paragraph 29(d).

31

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Secretary of State, prior to the
commencement of any cable installation works in the HHW SAC, the undertaker
must—

31.a

provide a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

31.b

put in place either—

31.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

31.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

32

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State, the MMO and the relevant statutory nature conservation
body. This must include details of any finding that the measures have been
ineffective in securing an improvement in the condition of the HHW SAC and, in
such case, proposals to address this. Any proposals to address effectiveness
must thereafter be implemented by the undertaker as approved in writing by the
Secretary of State in consultation with the MMO and the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

33

A report which demonstrates completion of the activities required by the BIMP
must be submitted to the Secretary of State within 12 months of completion of
such activities and following approval of the report by the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the MMO and the statutory nature conservation
body, the undertaker will be discharged from any further obligations under
this Part.

34

The approved BIMP includes any amendments that may subsequently be agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the MMO and the
relevant statutory nature conservation body. Any amendments to or variations
of the BIMP must be in accordance with the principles set out in the HHW SAC
compensation plan and may only be approved where it has been demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it is unlikely to give rise to
any new or materially different environmental effects from those considered in
the HHW SAC compensation plan.

35

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the HHW SAC
compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the provisions of this
Order shall prevail.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order grants development consent for, and authorises Norfolk Vanguard
Limited to construct, operate and maintain a generating station located in the
North Sea approximately 47km from the Norfolk coast, together with associated
development. For the purposes of the development that it authorises Norfolk
Vanguard Limited is authorised by this Order compulsorily or by agreement to
purchase land(including rights in land) and the right to use land, as well as
to override easements and other rights. This Order also provides a defence in
proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance and to discharge water. The Order
imposes requirements in connection with the development for which it grants
development consent.

This Order also grants deemed marine licences for the marine licensable
activities, being the deposit of substances and articles and the carrying out
of works, involved in the construction of the generating station and
associated development. The deemed marine licences impose conditions in
connection with the deposits and works for which they grant consent.

A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and
certified in accordance with article 37 (certification of plans and documents,
etc.) may be inspected free of charge at the offices of North Norfolk District
Council, Council Offices, Holt Road, Cromer, NR27 9EN.

