Title: The Social Security Contributions (Freeports) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision in relation to the zero-rate of secondary (employer) National Insurance contributions (“NICs”) available in freeport tax sites in Great Britain under the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/313

## The Social Security Contributions (Freeports) Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   15th March 2022

  Laid before Parliament   16th March 2022

  Coming into force   6th April 2022

      The Treasury make the following Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 3(2) and 12(4) of the National Insurance Contributions
Act 2022  (“ the Act ”) and section 175(3) of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security Contributions
(Freeports) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 6th April 2022.

### Circumstances in which  

2

The   applicable condition   in section 2(1)(d) of the Act is treated as met
in respect of a qualifying period where regulation 3 or regulation 4 applies.

### Disability

3

This regulation applies where—

3.a

the earner has the protected characteristic of disability as defined in
section 6(1) of the Equality Act 2010 ,

3.b

the employer or the secondary contributor has made adjustments to the earner’s
employed time spent in the   special tax site   in order to comply with the
employer’s duty to make reasonable adjustments in accordance with section 20
of the Equality Act 2010, and

3.c

the   applicable  condition in section 2(1)(d) of the Act would be met but for
those adjustments.

### Pregnancy and maternity

4

4.1

This regulation applies where—

4.1.a

the earner is pregnant or within a period of maternity,

4.1.b

the employer or the secondary contributor has made adjustments to the earner’s
employed time spent in the   special tax site   because of the pregnancy or
because the earner is within a period of maternity, and

4.1.c

the   applicable  condition in section 2(1)(d) of the Act would be met but for
those adjustments.

4.2

In this regulation—

4.2.a

because of the pregnancy includes because of illness suffered by the earner as
a result of it;

4.2.b

period of maternity means the period of 52 weeks beginning with the day on
which the earner gives birth;

4.2.c

the day on which the earner gives birth has the same meaning as the day on
which the woman gives birth in section 17(5) of the Equality Act 2010.

      Michael Tomlinson   Rebecca Harris   Two of the Lords Commissioners of
Her Majesty’s Treasury   15th March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision in relation to the zero-rate of secondary
(employer) National Insurance contributions (“NICs”) available in freeport tax
sites in Great Britain under the National Insurance Contributions Act 2022 (“
the Act ”).

They exempt employers from having to meet the freeport condition at section
2(1)(d) of the Act in order to claim freeports NICs relief in respect of
employees with disabilities, who are pregnant or who have given birth within
the previous 52 weeks. The condition is treated as met where the employer has
adjusted the employee’s working time so that they would not be able to meet
the condition of spending more than 60% of their working time in the freeport
tax site.

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument was published on
12th May 2021 and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/zero-rate-of-secondary-national-
insurance-contributions-for-freeport-employees/zero-rate-of-secondary-nics-
for-freeport-employees . It remains an accurate summary of the impacts that
apply to this instrument.

