Title: The East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm (Amendment) Order 2022
Date: 2023-02-02
Description: This Order amends the East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017 (as amended), a development consent order under the Planning Act 2008, following an application made in accordance with the Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent Orders) Regulations 2011 for a non-material change under paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to the Planning Act 2008. This Order removes the stated gross electrical output capacity of the offshore wind turbine generating station and makes changes to the permitted parameters of the wind turbine generators. The Order also makes a change to the address of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation and amends the location of the remote radar head following consultation feedback.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1015

## The East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm (Amendment) Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   30th September 2022

  Coming into force   1st October 2022

      An application has been made, under paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to the
Planning Act 2008 , to the Secretary of State in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Changes to, and Revocation of, Development Consent
Orders) Regulations 2011  (“ the 2011 Regulations ”) for a non-material change
to the East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017  (“ the 2017 Order ”).
The Secretary of State, having considered the application, the responses to
the publicity and consultation required by regulations 6 and 7 of the 2011
Regulations, has decided to make the changes on terms that in the opinion of
the Secretary of State are not materially different from those proposed in the
application.           Accordingly, the Secretary of State, in exercise of the
powers in paragraph 2(1) and (9) of Schedule 6 to the Planning Act 2008, makes
the following Order:

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm
(Amendment) Order 2022 and comes into force on 1st October 2022.

### Amendment to the East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017

2

The East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017 (“ the 2017 Order ”) is
amended in accordance with this Order.

### Amendments to Part 1 (Authorised development) of Schedule 1 (Authorised project)

3

In Part 1 (Authorised development) of Schedule 1 (Authorised project) to the
2017 Order, in paragraph (a) of the description of Work No. 1—

3.a

omit the words “with a gross electrical output capacity of up to 1,400 MW”;
and

3.b

for “121” substitute  “100” .

### Amendments to Part 3 (Requirements) of Schedule 1 (Authorised project)

4

Part 3 (Requirements) of Schedule 1 (Authorised project) to the 2017 Order is
amended as follows—

4.a

in paragraph 2(1)(a), for “262” substitute  “282” ;

4.b

in paragraph 2(1)(c), for “230” substitute  “250” ;

4.c

in paragraph 3(8)(a), omit the words “with a gross electrical output capacity
of up to 1,400 MW” and for “121” Substitute “100”;

4.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.e

in paragraph 33(2)(a) for “Trimingham” substitute  “Neatishead” ; and

4.f

in paragraph 33(2)(c) (Ministry of Defence surveillance operations), for
“Kington Road, Sutton Coldfield, B75 7RL” substitute  “St George’s House, DIO
Head Office, DMS Whittington, Lichfield, Staffordshire WS14 9PY” .

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy       Gareth Leigh   Head of Energy Infrastructure
Planning Delivery   Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order amends the East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017 (as
amended), a development consent order under the Planning Act 2008, following
an application made in accordance with the Infrastructure Planning (Changes
to, and Revocation of, Development Consent Orders) Regulations 2011 for a non-
material change under paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to the Planning Act 2008. This
Order removes the stated gross electrical output capacity of the offshore wind
turbine generating station and makes changes to the permitted parameters of
the wind turbine generators. The Order also makes a change to the address of
the Defence Infrastructure Organisation and amends the location of the remote
radar head following consultation feedback.

