Title: The Local Government Investigations (Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-06-19
Description: These Regulations add corporate joint committees established by regulations made under Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to the definition of “relevant authority” in the Local Government Investigations (Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales) Regulations 2001 (“the 2001 Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/802

## The Local Government Investigations (Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

Local Government, Wales

Made 13 July 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru 15 July 2022

Coming into force 5 August 2022

The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the power
conferred on them by section 73(1), (2)(b), (2)(d) and (2)(e), and section
105(2)(a) and (2)(b) and (3), of the Local Government Act 2000 .

### Title and coming into force

1

The title of these Regulations is the Local Government Investigations
(Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales)
(Amendment) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on 5 August 2022.

### Amendments to the Local Government Investigations (Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales) Regulations 2001

2

The Local Government Investigations (Functions of Monitoring Officers and
Standards Committees) (Wales) Regulations 2001  are amended as follows.

3

In regulation 2, in the definition of “relevant authority”—

3.a

after “a scheme to which section 4 of that Act applies,” omit “and”;

3.b

for “1995;” substitute  “1995, and” ;

3.c

at the end insert  “a corporate joint committee;” .

4

In regulation 3, after paragraph (2) insert—

4.2A

Where the relevant authority concerned is a corporate joint committee, in the
matter of a member or co-opted member who is also a member or co-opted member
of—

4.2A.a

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

4.2A.b

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021  to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of the corporate joint committee must also send a copy
of any report and recommendations issued under paragraph (1)(b) or any
recommendations made under paragraph (2) to the monitoring officer of that
constituent council or National Park authority.

5

In regulation 6, after paragraph (a) insert—

5.aa

where any person who is the subject of the investigation is a member or co-
opted member of a corporate joint committee and is also a member or co-opted
member of—

5.aa.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

5.aa.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

send a copy of the report and any recommendations to the monitoring officer of
that constituent council or National Park authority;

.

6

In regulation 7(1)(a), after paragraph (i) insert—

6.ia

where the person who is the subject of the investigation is a member or co-
opted member of a corporate joint committee and is also a member or co-opted
member of—

6.ia.aa

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

6.ia.bb

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority;

.

7

In regulation 7A(1), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

7.aa

where a subject of the investigation is a member or co-opted member of a
corporate joint committee and is also a member or co-opted member of—

7.aa.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

7.aa.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority;

.

8

In regulation 8—

8.a

in paragraph (4), for “Regulation 7(b)” substitute  “regulation 7(1)(b)” ;

8.b

in paragraph (6)(b), for “Regulation 12(a)(i)” substitute  “regulation
12(1)(a)(i)” ;

8.c

in paragraph (6)(c), for “Regulation 12(a)(ii)” substitute  “regulation
12(1)(a)(ii)” .

9

In regulation 9—

9.a

in paragraph (2), for “Regulation 12(a)(ii)” substitute  “regulation
12(1)(a)(ii)” ;

9.b

after paragraph (3)(a), insert—

9.b.aa

where a subject of the investigation is a member or co-opted member of a
corporate joint committee and is also a member or co-opted member of—

9.b.aa.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

9.b.aa.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority;

.

10

In regulation 10(10), after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

10.aa

where the person seeking permission to appeal is a member or co-opted member
of a corporate joint committee and is also a member or co-opted member of—

10.aa.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

10.aa.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority;

.

11

In regulation 12—

11.a

the existing provision becomes paragraph (1);

11.b

in paragraph (1), omit the words from “, and must inform” to “decision”;

11.c

after paragraph (1), insert—

11.c.2

After making a decision in accordance with paragraph (1), the appeals tribunal
must give notice of that decision and reasons for the decision to:

11.c.2.a

any person who is the subject of the investigation,

11.c.2.b

the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales,

11.c.2.c

the Standards Committee of the relevant authority, and

11.c.2.d

where any person subject to the investigation is a member of a corporate joint
committee, and is also a member or co-opted member of—

11.c.2.d.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

11.c.2.d.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority.

12

In regulation 13—

12.a

in paragraph (1)—

12.a.i

in sub-paragraph (b), for “Regulation 12(a)(i) or (b)” substitute  “regulation
12(1)(a)(i) or (b)” ;

12.a.ii

in sub-paragraph (c), for “Regulation 12(a)(ii)” substitute  “regulation
12(1)(a)(ii)” ;

12.a.iii

omit the words from “and send” to “gave rise to the investigation”;

12.b

after paragraph (1), insert—

12.b.1A

The Standards Committee must send a copy of the report to:

12.b.1A.a

any person who is the subject of the investigation,

12.b.1A.b

the Public Services Ombudsman for Wales,

12.b.1A.c

the monitoring officer of the relevant authority concerned, and

12.b.1A.d

where any person subject to the investigation is a member or co-opted member
of a corporate joint committee, and is also a member or co-opted member of—

12.b.1A.d.i

a constituent council of the corporate joint committee;

12.b.1A.d.ii

a National Park authority which is required by regulations under Part 5 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to appoint a member of the
corporate joint committee,

the monitoring officer of that constituent council or National Park authority.

12.b.1B

The Standards Committee must also take reasonable steps to send a copy of the
report to any person who made any allegation which gave rise to the
investigation.

;

12.c

in paragraph (2), in the words before sub-paragraph (a), after “authority”
insert  “concerned” .

Rebecca Evans Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the Welsh
Ministers 13 July 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations add corporate joint committees established by regulations
made under Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 to
the definition of “relevant authority” in the Local Government Investigations
(Functions of Monitoring Officers and Standards Committees) (Wales)
Regulations 2001 (“ the 2001 Regulations ”).

These Regulations also amend the 2001 Regulations to provide that where a
corporate joint committee member (or co-opted member) is under investigation,
and they are also a member (or co-opted member) of a constituent council or
National Park authority, specified information, reports and recommendations
must also be sent to that council or authority.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to the regulations which establish
corporate joint committees, and connected regulations and orders. As a result,
a regulatory impact assessment was prepared at the time of making those
establishment regulations and is relied on for the purpose of these
Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the Local Government Strategic
Finance Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

