Title: The Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order amends the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) Order (Northern Ireland) 1979 (“the 1979 Order”) to bring individuals who are offering to provide accommodation to a person who has permission to enter into, or to stay, in the United Kingdom, granted under immigration rules in relation to the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, within the excluded circumstances set out in Article 2 of the 1979 Order.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/213

## The Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) (Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Rehabilitation Of Offenders

  Made   9th September 2022

  Coming into operation-   3rd October 2022

      The Department of Justice makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by Article 5(4) of the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Northern
Ireland) Order 1978 .

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as The Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions)
(Amendment) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 3rd
October 2022.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order “ the 1979 Order ” means the Rehabilitation of Offenders
(Exceptions) Order (Northern Ireland) 1979 .

### Amendment of the 1979 Order

3

3.1

The 1979 Order is amended as follows:-

3.2

After Article 2(1)(m) insert-

3.2.n

any question asked, in order to assess the suitability of an individual to
provide accommodation to a person who has permission to enter into or to stay
in the United Kingdom granted under the immigration rules laid down under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971  in relation to the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme , in the following circumstances:-

3.2.n.i

the question relates to the individual whose suitability is being assessed, or

3.2.n.ii

where the individual being assessed resides in the accommodation to be
provided, the question relates to any other individual who is over the age of
16 years and who also resides in the accommodation to be provided.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 9th
September 2022.         Naomi Long   Minister of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  This Order amends the Rehabilitation of Offenders (Exceptions) Order
(Northern Ireland) 1979 (“ the 1979 Order ”) to bring individuals who are
offering to provide accommodation to a person who has permission to enter
into, or to stay, in the United Kingdom, granted under immigration rules in
relation to the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, within the excluded
circumstances set out in Article 2 of the 1979 Order.

  The 1979 Order disapplies specific provisions of the Rehabilitation of
Offenders (Northern Ireland) Order 1978 (“ the 1978 Order ”) which would
otherwise prevent a person from having to disclose a spent conviction and
protect that person from being prejudiced by that conviction or any failure to
disclose it. The general effect of the disapplication is to allow, in specific
circumstances, questions to be asked about spent convictions (except where
they are protected convictions as described in Article 1A of the 1979 Order)
in order to assess a person’s suitability for admission to certain
occupations, or to hold certain types of employment, licences or permits. It
also allows spent convictions, or failure to disclose them, to be grounds for
excluding a person from these occupations, or making decisions in relation to
those types of employments, licenses and permits.

  Article 5(2) of the 1978 Order (which relates to questions asked about
criminal convictions otherwise than in the course of judicial proceedings) is
excluded in relation to questions put in the various circumstances specified
in Article 2 of the 1979 Order. The questions to which Article 2 applies
include questions on the assessment of a person’s suitability for various
professions, offices, employments, occupations or to hold certain licences,
certificates or permits.

  Article 3 of this Order inserts a new paragraph (n) into Article 2(1) of the
1979 Order so that any question asked to assess the suitability of an
individual offering to provide accommodation (whether residing in that
accommodation or not) to a person who has permission to enter into or stay in
the United Kingdom, granted under immigration rules in relation to the Homes
for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme, is included within the scope of the exceptions
set out in the 1979 Order, requiring them to self-disclose spent convictions.
These circumstances also extend to those individuals over the age of 16 years
who are also residing in the accommodation to be provided.

  The Order comes into operation on 3rd October 2022.

