Title: The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 13 and Transitional and Saving Provisions) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: This Order brings into force provisions of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/896

## The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 13 and Transitional and Saving Provisions) Order 2022

    Education, Wales

  Made   16 August 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
100(3) and (4) of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales)
Act 2018 , make the following Order:

### Title and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Additional Learning Needs and Education
Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 13 and Transitional and Saving
Provisions) Order 2022.

1.2

In this Order—

“ the 1996 Act ” (“ Deddf 1996 ”) means the Education Act 1996 ; “ the 2014
Act ” (“ Deddf 2014 ”) means the Children and Families Act 2014 ; “ the Act ”
(“y  Ddeddf ”) means the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal
(Wales) Act 2018; “ child ” (“ plentyn ”) means a person who is not over
compulsory school age; “ code ” (“ cod ”) means a code on additional learning
needs issued under section 4 of the Act; “ compulsory school age ” (“ oedran
ysgol gorfodol ”) has the same meaning as in section 8 of the 1996 Act; “ EHC
needs assessment ” (“ asesiad o anghenion AIG ”) has the same meaning as in
section 36(2) of the 2014 Act; “ EHC plan ” (“ cynllun AIG ”) has the same
meaning as in section 37(2)  of the 2014 Act; “ in the area of a local
authority in England ” (“ yn ardal awdurdod lleol yn Lloegr ”) has the same
meaning as in section 579(3A)  of the 1996 Act; “ in the area of a local
authority in Wales ” (“ yn ardal awdurdod lleol yng Nghymru ”) has the same
meaning as in section 579(3B)  of the 1996 Act; “ individual development plan
” (“ cynllun datblygu unigol ”) means a plan prepared and maintained under
Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act; “ institution in the further education sector
” (“ sefydliad yn y sector addysg bellach ”) has the same meaning as in
section 99 of the Act; “ learning difficulty ” (“ anhawster dysgu ”) has the
same meaning as in— section 312(2)  of the 1996 Act— in relation to a child in
the area of a local authority in Wales but not a child who is a registered
pupil at a mainstream school in England, in relation to a child in the area of
a local authority in England who is a registered pupil at a maintained school
in Wales, as if “a child in the area of a local authority in Wales” were
omitted, section 20 of the 2014 Act in relation to a child in the area of a
local authority in Wales who is a registered pupil at a mainstream school in
England; “ local authority ” (“ awdurdod lleol ”) has the same meaning as in
section 579  of the 1996 Act; “ looked after child ” (“ plentyn sy’n derbyn
gofal ”) has the same meaning as in section 15 of the Act; “ mainstream school
” (“ ysgol brif ffrwd ”) has the same meaning as in section 83(2) of the 2014
Act; “ maintained school ” (“ ysgol a gynhelir ”) has the same meaning as in
section 99 of the Act; “ nursery class ” (“ dosbarth meithrin ”) means a class
of pupils who are provided with nursery education; “ nursery education ” (“
addysg feithrin ”) has the same meaning as in section 117 of the School
Standards and Framework Act 1998 ; “ parent ” (“ rhiant ”) has the same
meaning as in section 576  of the 1996 Act; “ reception class ” (“ dosbarth
derbyn ”) means a year group in which the majority of children will, in the
school year, attain the age of 5; “ registered pupil ” (“ disgybl cofrestredig
”) has the same meaning as in section 434  of the 1996 Act; “ school day ” (“
diwrnod ysgol ”) has the same meaning as in section 579 of the 1996 Act; “
school year ” (“ blwyddyn ysgol ”) has the same meaning as in section 579  of
the 1996 Act; “ special educational provision ” (“ darpariaeth addysgol
arbennig ”) has the same meaning as in— section 312(4)  of the 1996 Act— in
relation to a child in the area of a local authority in Wales but not a child
who is a registered pupil at a mainstream school in England, in relation to a
child in the area of a local authority in England who is a registered pupil at
a maintained school in Wales as if “in relation to a child in the area of a
local authority in Wales” were omitted, section 21 of the 2014 Act in relation
to a child in the area of a local authority in Wales who is a registered pupil
at a mainstream school in England; “ Tribunal ” (“ Tribiwnlys ”) means the
Education Tribunal for Wales ; “ Tribunal Rules ” (“ Rheolau’r Tribiwnlys ”)
means Special Educational Needs Tribunal for Wales Regulations 2012 ; “ year 2
” (“ blwyddyn 2 ”) means a year group in which the majority of children will,
in the school year, attain the age of 7; “ year 4 ” (“ blwyddyn 4 ”) means a
year group in which the majority of children will, in the school year, attain
the age of 9; “ year 6 ” (“ blwyddyn 6 ”) means a year group in which the
majority of children will, in the school year, attain the age of 11; “ year 8
” (“ blwyddyn 8 ”) means a year group in which the majority of children will,
in the school year, attain the age of 13; “ year 10 ” (“ blwyddyn 10 ”) means
a year group in which the majority of children will, in the school year,
attain the age of 15; “ year 11 ” (“ blwyddyn 11 ”) means a year group in
which the majority of children will, in the school year, attain the age of 16;
“ year group ” (“ grŵp blwyddyn ”) means a group of children at a school the
majority of whom will, in a particular school year, attain the same age.

1.3

References in this Order to “the old law” are to Chapter 1 of Part 4 of the
1996 Act but excluding—

1.3.a

section 323;

1.3.b

section 329;

1.3.c

section 329A.

1.4

References in this Order to “the new law” are to—

1.4.a

the Act,

1.4.b

a regulation or the code made under that Act, and

1.4.c

any other provision of, or made under, an act that has effect for the purposes
of or in relation to—

1.4.c.i

a provision of the Act or such regulations or code, or

1.4.c.ii

a person to whom the Act or such regulations or code applies.

1.5

For the purposes of this Order an appeal is finally determined if—

1.5.a

a decision is made by a tribunal or court on the appeal, and

1.5.b

if a request may be made to review the decision or it may be further appealed,
and the period (or each of the periods) for doing so expires without a review
being requested or further appeal being made.

1.6

For the purposes of this Order, a local authority is responsible for a child
if he or she is in the area of the authority.

1.7

This Order does not apply to a person in relation to whom provisions of the
Act were commenced by the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal
(Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 5 and Transitional and Saving Provisions)
Order 2021 .

### Meaning of identified special educational needs

2

2.1

For the purposes of this Order, a child (“ C ”) has “identified special
educational needs” if C is a registered pupil at a maintained school in Wales
and has a learning difficulty identified by the governing body which calls for
special educational provision to be made for C.

2.2

But does not include a child—

2.2.a

in relation to whom a local authority is maintaining a statement under section
324 of the 1996 Act;

2.2.b

in relation to whom a local authority is maintaining an EHC plan;

2.2.c

who is a registered pupil at a maintained school in Wales and—

2.2.c.i

is a registered pupil or an enrolled student at another institution (that
institution being a school or an institution in the further education sector),
and

2.2.c.ii

a local authority in Wales is responsible for that child;

2.2.d

who is a looked after child but not a looked after child who is in the area of
a local authority in England;

2.2.e

in relation to whom a local authority has served a notice under section 323 of
the 1996 Act and the assessment has not commenced and no notice has been given
under section 323(6) of the 1996 Act;

2.2.f

in relation to whom a request has been made under section 329 or 329A of the
1996 Act for an assessment under section 323 of the 1996 Act and the local
authority has not determined whether to assess;

2.2.g

in relation to whom a request has been made under section 329 or 329A of the
1996 Act for an assessment under section 323 of the 1996 Act and the local
authority determines not to comply with the request and—

2.2.g.i

the time within which an appeal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996
Act has to be brought under Part B of the Tribunal Rules has not ended;

2.2.g.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought but not finally determined; or

2.2.g.iii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination was finally determined and the local authority
was ordered to arrange an assessment, and that assessment has not commenced;

2.2.h

in relation to whom a local authority is undertaking an assessment of
educational needs under section 323 of the 1996 Act;

2.2.i

in relation to whom a local authority proposes not to make a statement
following an assessment and—

2.2.i.i

the time within which an appeal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act has to be
brought under Part B of the Tribunal Rules has not ended;

2.2.i.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision has been brought but not finally determined;

2.2.i.iii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision was brought and finally determined and the local authority was
ordered to—

2.2.i.iii.aa

make and maintain a statement and the making of the statement has not
commenced; or

2.2.i.iii.bb

reconsider its decision and that reconsideration has not commenced;

2.2.j

in relation to whom a local authority must make a statement under section 324
of the 1996 Act but the making of the statement has not concluded;

2.2.k

in relation to whom the local authority has determined to cease to maintain a
statement under paragraph 11(1) of Schedule 27 to the 1996 Act and—

2.2.k.i

the time within which an appeal under paragraph 11(2)(b) of that Schedule has
to be brought under Part B of the Tribunal Rules has not ended, or

2.2.k.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under paragraph 11(2)(b) of that Schedule has been
brought in relation to that decision but not finally determined;

2.2.l

in relation to whom an assessment under section 331 of the 1996 Act is
ongoing;

2.2.m

who is not over compulsory school age but in relation to whom an assessment
under section 140 of the Learning and Skills Act 2000 —

2.2.m.i

is ongoing, or

2.2.m.ii

has resulted in a report of the person’s educational and training needs and
the provision required to meet them;

2.2.n

in relation to whom a request to a local authority has been made to secure an
EHC needs assessment under section 36(1) of the 2014 Act and the local
authority has not determined that request under section 36(3);

2.2.o

in relation to whom a local authority has determined under section 36 of the
2014 Act not to secure an EHC needs assessment and—

2.2.o.i

the period for pursuing mediation in relation to that determination under
section 52 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.o.ii

mediation under section 55 of the 2014 Act is ongoing in relation to that
determination;

2.2.o.iii

a mediation certificate has been issued under section 55(4) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination and the period for submitting an appeal to the
First-tier Tribunal under section 51 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.o.iv

an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 51(2)(a) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought but not finally determined;

2.2.o.v

an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 51(2)(a) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought and fully determined and the
local authority was ordered to arrange an assessment or re-assessment, and
that assessment or re-assessment has not commenced;

2.2.p

in relation to whom a local authority has served a notice under section 36(7)
of the 2014 Act that it is considering securing an EHC needs assessment and—

2.2.p.i

the assessment has not commenced,

2.2.p.ii

the assessment is ongoing, or

2.2.p.iii

no notice has been served under section 36(9) of the 2014 Act;

2.2.q

in relation to whom a local authority has determined under section 36(9) of
the 2014 Act that it is not necessary for special educational provision to be
made in accordance with an EHC plan and—

2.2.q.i

the period for pursuing mediation in relation to that determination under
section 52 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.q.ii

mediation under section 55 of the 2014 Act is ongoing in relation to that
determination;

2.2.q.iii

a mediation certificate has been issued under section 55(4) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination and the period for submitting an appeal to the
First-tier Tribunal under section 51 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.q.iv

an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 51(2)(b) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought but not finally determined;

2.2.q.v

an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 51(2)(b) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought and finally determined and the
local authority was ordered to—

2.2.q.v.aa

make and maintain an EHC plan and the making of the EHC plan has not
commenced, or

2.2.q.v.bb

reconsider its decision and that reconsideration has not commenced;

2.2.r

in relation to whom a local authority has determined under section 36(9) of
the 2014 Act that it is necessary for special educational provision to be made
in accordance with an EHC plan but that plan is not prepared;

2.2.s

in relation to whom a local authority has determined under section 45 of the
2014 Act that it is no longer necessary for an EHC plan to be maintained and—

2.2.s.i

the period for pursuing mediation in relation to that determination under
section 52 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.s.ii

mediation under section 55 of the 2014 Act is ongoing in relation to that
determination;

2.2.s.iii

a mediation certificate has been issued under section 55(4) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination and the period for submitting an appeal to the
First-tier Tribunal under section 51 of the 2014 Act has not ended;

2.2.s.iv

an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal under section 51(2)(f) of the 2014 Act in
relation to that determination has been brought but not finally determined.

### Provisions coming into force on 1 September 2022

3

The following provisions of the Act come into force on 1 September 2022 in
relation to a child who has identified special educational needs on 1
September 2022—

3.a

sections 2 to 4;

3.b

sections 6 to 14;

3.c

sections 17 to 36;

3.d

section 38;

3.e

sections 40 to 44;

3.f

sections 47 to 49;

3.g

section 50(1) for the purposes of the provisions in paragraph (h);

3.h

section 50(4) to (5);

3.i

sections 51 to 53;

3.j

section 55;

3.k

section 59;

3.l

sections 63 to 66;

3.m

sections 68 to 69;

3.n

section 96 for the purposes of the provisions in paragraph (o);

3.o

in the Schedule—

3.o.i

paragraph 1;

3.o.ii

paragraph 4(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraphs (iii) to
(xi);

3.o.iii

paragraph 4(2) to 4(6);

3.o.iv

paragraph 4(7) to the extent that the paragraph has not been repealed in
relation to the child ;

3.o.v

paragraph 4(8) to 4(9);

3.o.vi

paragraph 4(10);

3.o.vii

paragraph 4(13) to 4(18);

3.o.viii

paragraph 4(19)(b);

3.o.ix

paragraph 4(20) and 4(21);

3.o.x

paragraph 4(23) to 4(29);

3.o.xi

paragraph 4(32)(a)(i) and (ii) and paragraph 4(32)(b);

3.o.xii

paragraph 7;

3.o.xiii

paragraph 8;

3.o.xiv

paragraph 11(a);

3.o.xv

paragraph 12(a);

3.o.xvi

paragraph 14(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xvii);

3.o.xvii

paragraph 14(2) and (3);

3.o.xviii

paragraph 19(1) for the purpose of the provision in sub-paragraph (xix);

3.o.xix

paragraph 19(5)(e)(ii);

3.o.xx

paragraph 21(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xxi);

3.o.xxi

paragraph 21(2)(a)(i) and (2)(b)(ii);

3.o.xxii

paragraph 22;

3.o.xxiii

paragraph 23(1) for the purpose of the provision in sub-paragraph (xxiv);

3.o.xxiv

paragraph 23(4);

3.o.xxv

paragraph 24(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xxvi);

3.o.xxvi

paragraph 24(3) and (6)(a).

### Saving provision

4

Subject to articles 9 to 11 and articles 13 to 18, despite the disapplication
by section 96 and paragraph 4(9) of the Schedule to the Act of Chapter 1 of
Part 4 of the 1996 Act  in relation to a child who has identified special
educational needs—

4.a

the old law continues to have effect in relation to that child; and

4.b

the new law does not have effect in relation to that child.

### IDP notice

5

An IDP notice is a notice given to a child and a child’s parent which confirms
that—

5.a

the child has additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part
2 of the Act; and

5.b

an individual development plan will be prepared for the child (unless a local
authority is required to secure an EHC plan following a request under section
12(2)(c) of the Act).

### No IDP notice

6

A No IDP notice is a notice given to a child and a child’s parent which
confirms that the governing body has decided that the child does not have
additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act.

### Effect of IDP notice

7

The effect of the IDP notice is that—

7.a

the governing body is deemed to have decided on the date of the notice that
the child has additional learning needs under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act;

7.b

the new law applies in relation to the child on that date; and

7.c

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child on that date.

### Effect of No IDP notice

8

The effect of the No IDP notice is that—

8.a

the governing body is deemed to have decided on the date of the notice that
the child does not have additional learning needs under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
the Act;

8.b

the new law applies in relation to the child on that date; and

8.c

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child on that date.

### Duty to give a notice

9

9.1

This article applies to a child who on 1 September 2022 has identified special
educational needs and who is in a nursery class, a reception class, year 2,
year 4, year 6, year 8, year 10 or year 11.

9.2

Unless the new law applies in relation to the child, the governing body which
provides the special educational provision to the child must either give an
IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s parent during the
2022-2023 school year.

9A

9A.1

This article applies to a child who on 1 September 2023 has identified special
educational needs and who is in year 6 or in year 10 during the 2023-2024
school year.

9A.2

Unless the new law applies in relation to the child, the governing body which
provides the special educational provision to the child must either give an
IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s parent during the
2023-2024 school year.

10

10.1

This article applies to a child who on 1 September 2023 has identified special
educational needs and who did not come within article 9  or 9A .

10.2

Unless the new law applies in relation to the child, the governing body which
provides the special educational provision to the child must either give an
IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s parent during the
2023-2024 school year  or the 2024-2025 school year  .

### Right to request an IDP notice or a No IDP notice

11

A child who on 1 September 2022 had identified special educational needs, or
that child’s parent, may request that the governing body of the school at
which the child is a registered pupil gives an IDP notice or a No IDP notice
and the governing body must give either an IDP notice or a No IDP notice
within 15 school days of the request.

### Time for giving an individual development plan

12

12.1

When an IDP notice is given pursuant to articles 9,  9A,   10 or 11 the
governing body must give a copy of the individual development plan to the
child and the child’s parent within 35 school days of the date of the notice
unless—

12.1.a

any of the circumstances in section 12(2) of the Act apply;

12.1.b

section 31 of the Act applies; or

12.1.c

there are exceptional circumstances.

12.2

If there are exceptional circumstances a copy of the individual development
plan must be given as soon as is reasonably practicable.

12.3

Any timescales in the code relating to the preparation by a governing body of
an individual development plan do not apply when an individual development
plan is prepared following the giving of an IDP notice.

### ALN Notice

13

13.1

This article applies to a child who on 1 September 2022 had identified special
educational needs.

13.2

Subject to paragraph (5), the appropriate local authority may at any time give
an ALN notice to a child and that child’s parent.

13.3

A child who has ceased to be a registered pupil at a maintained school in
Wales and to whom the new law does not apply, or that child’s parent, may
request that the appropriate local authority gives an ALN notice, and the
appropriate local authority must give an ALN notice within 10 working days of
the request.

13.4

The effect of the ALN notice is that—

13.4.a

the new law applies in relation to the child on the date of the notice; and

13.4.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child on the date of the
notice.

13.5

The appropriate local authority may only give an ALN notice in exceptional
circumstances, unless the ALN notice is given as a result of a request made
under paragraph (3).

13.6

In this article the “ appropriate local authority ” means—

13.6.a

the local authority in Wales which is responsible for the child, or

13.6.b

where a local authority in Wales is not responsible for the child, a local
authority in Wales in whose area the maintained school at which the child is a
registered pupil is located.

### Children for whom the new law does not apply by a certain date

14

14.1

This article applies to a child—

14.1.a

who had identified special educational needs on 1 September 2022,

14.1.b

who was in a nursery class, a reception class, year 2, year 4, year 6, year 8,
year 10 or year 11 during the 2022-2023 school year, and

14.1.c

in relation to whom the new law does not apply on 30 August 2023.

14.2

On 31 August 2023—

14.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

14.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

14A

14A.1

This article applies to a child—

14A.1.a

who had identified special educational needs on 1 September 2022,

14A.1.b

who was in year 6 or in year 10 during the 2023-2024 school year, and

14A.1.c

in relation to whom the new law does not apply on 30 August 2024.

14A.2

On 31 August 2024—

14A.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

14A.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

15

15.1

This article applies to a child—

15.1.a

who had identified special educational needs on 1 September 2022, and

15.1.b

in relation to whom the new law does not apply on 30 August  2025 .

15.2

On 31 August  2025  —

15.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

15.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

### Change of circumstances

16

16.1

This article applies to a child who had identified special educational needs
on 1 September 2022—

16.1.a

who ceases to be a registered pupil at a maintained school in Wales,

16.1.b

for whom a request for an IDP notice or a No IDP notice has not been made, and

16.1.c

in relation to whom the old law applies.

16.2

On the date that the child ceases to be a registered pupil at that school—

16.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

16.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

16.3

In this article “ ceases to be a registered pupil ” means that the pupil’s
name is deleted from the admission register of the school in accordance with
the Education (Pupil Registration) (Wales) Regulations 2010  but does not
include a pupil who ceases to be a registered pupil as a result of one or more
of the following—

16.3.i

reaching the end of the third term of the final year that the school generally
provides education;

16.3.ii

the school being discontinued as a result of the implementation of a proposal
made under section 43 (proposals to discontinue mainstream schools), section
44 (proposals to establish, alter or discontinue community special schools),
section 59 (making and publication of proposals by Welsh Ministers), section
68 (proposals by Welsh Ministers) or section 80 (notice by governing body to
discontinue foundation or voluntary school) of the School Standards and
Organisation (Wales) Act 2013 ;

16.3.iii

the school being discontinued as a result of a direction made under section 16
(power of Welsh Ministers to direct closure of school) or section 81
(direction requiring discontinuance of community special school) of the School
Standards and Organisation (Wales) Act 2013;

16.3.iv

the pupil referral unit being permanently closed.

17

17.1

This article applies to a child who had identified special educational needs
on 1 September 2022—

17.1.a

who becomes a registered pupil or an enrolled student at another institution
(that institution being a school or institution in the further education
sector),

17.1.b

for whom a local authority in Wales is responsible,

17.1.c

for whom a request for an IDP notice or a No IDP notice has not been made, and

17.1.d

in relation to whom the old law applies.

17.2

On the date that the child becomes a registered pupil or an enrolled student
at another institution—

17.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

17.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

18

18.1

This article applies to a child who had identified special educational needs
on 1 September 2022—

18.1.a

who becomes a looked after child,

18.1.b

for whom a request for an IDP notice or a No IDP notice has not been made, and

18.1.c

in relation to whom the old law applies.

18.2

On the date that the child becomes a looked after child—

18.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

18.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

### Regard to special educational provision provided before IDP notice

19

Where a governing body is required to prepare an individual development plan
for a child within 35 school days of moving to the new law, the governing body
must have regard to the special educational provision provided to the child
immediately before moving to the new law.

20

Where a local authority is required to prepare an individual development plan
for a child within 12 weeks of moving to the new law, the local authority must
have regard to the special educational provision provided to the child
immediately before moving to the new law.

### Capacity of children

21

21.1

Subject to paragraph (2), paragraph (3) applies to a child who had identified
special educational needs on 1 September 2022.

21.2

Nothing in this article applies to a person when that person ceases to be of
compulsory school age.

21.3

A duty in paragraph (4) or the power in paragraph (5) does not apply if the
appropriate person considers that the child does not have capacity to
understand the subject matter.

21.4

The duties referred to in paragraph (3) are—

21.4.a

the duty to give a child an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in articles 9(2)  ,
9A(2)   and 10(2);

21.4.b

the duty to give a notice following a request by a child under article 11;

21.4.c

the duty to give a child a copy of the individual development plan within 35
school days in article 12(1).

21.5

The power referred to in paragraph (3) is the power to give a child an ALN
notice in article 13.

21.6

Where paragraph (3) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (4)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child in article 5 is to be read as if it were
omitted.

21.7

Where paragraph (3) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (4)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child in article 6 is to be read as if it were
omitted.

### Children who become young persons before the new law applies

22

22.1

Paragraph (2) applies to a child who had a identified special educational
needs on 1 September 2022.

22.2

A duty in paragraph (3) or a power in paragraph (4) does not apply when a
person ceases to be of compulsory school age.

22.3

The duties referred to in paragraph (2) are—

22.3.a

the duty to give a parent an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in articles 9(2) ,
9A(2)   and 10(2);

22.3.b

the duty to give a notice following a request by a parent under article 11;

22.3.c

the duty to give a parent a copy of the individual development plan within 35
school days in article 12(1).

22.4

The powers referred to in paragraph (2) are—

22.4.a

the power for a parent to request an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in article
11;

22.4.b

the power to give a parent an ALN notice in article 13.

22.5

Where paragraph (2) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (3)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child’s parent in article 5 is to be read as if it
were omitted.

22.6

Where paragraph (2) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (3)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child’s parent in article 6 is to be read as if it
were omitted.

Jeremy Miles Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the Welsh
Ministers 16 August 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order brings into force provisions of the Additional Learning Needs and
Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (“ the Act ”).

  The Act establishes a statutory framework for supporting children and young
people with additional learning needs. This replaces the legislation
surrounding special educational needs and the assessment of children and young
people with learning difficulties.

  The provisions listed in article 3 come into force on 1 September 2022 in
relation to those who are in year 11 and below, attend a maintained school
(including a pupil referral unit) and who have identified special educational
needs. It excludes some others engaged with the current statutory framework
including those with a statement of special educational needs (article 2).

  Article 1 contains definitions, including the “new law” in the Act and the
“old law” in Part 4 of the Education Act 1996. Until a child is transferred to
the new law the old law will continue to apply to the child and the new law
will not have effect. This Order requires the governing body to give a notice
to a child in a particular year group in a particular school year (articles 9
and 10). For example, a child in a nursery class, a reception class, or in
year 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 or 11 will transfer to the new law during the school year
2022-2023. The date of the notice given to a particular child will be the date
that child transfers to the new law.

  The governing body can give the child an IDP notice or a No IDP notice. An
IDP notice means that the child is deemed to have additional learning needs
for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act on the date of the notice
and that it is intended that an individual development plan is prepared for
the child (article 5). A No IDP notice means that the child is deemed not to
have additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the
Act on the date of the notice (article 6).

  A child with identified special educational needs or the child’s parent can
request that an IDP notice or a No IDP notice is given (article 11).

  Where an individual development plan is prepared following an IDP notice,
the governing body must give a copy of the individual development plan to the
child and the child’s parent within 35 school days of the date of the notice
unless certain circumstances apply (article 12).

  If the child has not transferred to the new law by the end of the school
year that the child should have transferred, the old law ceases and the new
law has effect on the final day of the relevant school year (articles 14 and
15).

  Articles 16 to 18 deal with the situation where the circumstances of the
child changes after 1 September 2022.

  If the child is no longer registered at a maintained school (and has not
transferred to the new law), the child or the child’s parent can ask the
appropriate local authority for an ALN notice, which will mean the child is
transferred to the new law on the date of the notice (article 13). The
appropriate local authority must give an ALN notice within 10 working days of
the request.

  The appropriate local authority may also, in exceptional circumstances, give
any child and that child’s parent an ALN notice which will transfer the child
to the new law.

  When preparing an individual development plan for a child with identified
special educational needs, in certain circumstances regard must be had to the
special educational provision the child was receiving immediately before
transferring to the new law (articles 19 and 20).

  Article 21 reflects section 84 of the Act which provides that certain duties
and conditions in that Act in relation to children (e.g. to give a child a
copy of an individual development plan) do not apply if it is considered that
the child does not have capacity to understand the subject matter.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCMENT ORDERS

  The following provisions of the Act have been brought into force by
Commencement Orders made before the date of this Order :         Provision
Date of Commencement S.I. No   Sections 2 to 3 (partially) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 4 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 5 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) Section 6 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 7
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 8 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 9 to 14 (partially) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 15 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 16
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)      Sections 17 to 20
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 21 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 22 to 31
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 32 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 33 to 35
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 36 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 37 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 38 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 39 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) Sections 40 to 44 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section
45 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 46 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 47 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I.
2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1
January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316)
(C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 48 to 49
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 50(1), (4) and (5) (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 50(1), (2) and (3) (fully) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 51 to 53 (partially) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315)
(C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317)
(C. 70)     Section 54 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C.
33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 55
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 56 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) Section 56(1) 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
Section 56(4) to (6) 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Sections
57 to 58 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 59
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 60 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182
(W. 267) (C. 33) Section 61 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
Section 62 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Sections 63 to 64
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 65 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 66
(partially)     1 September 2021       1 January 2022         S.I. 2021/373
(W. 116) (C. 12)       S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 67 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Sections 68 to 69 (partially)
1 September 2021       1 January 2022         S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 70 to 73 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 74 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267)
(C. 33) Section 75 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
(fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 76 (partially)
2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 77 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I.
2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373(W. 116)  (C.
12) Sections 78 to 81 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section
82 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 83 (partially) 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 84 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116)
(C. 12) Section 85 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
(fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 86 to 90 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 91 (partially) 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)     Section 92 (partially)       (fully)         2
November 2020       1 September 2021         S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)     Sections 93 to 94 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 95 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I.
2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) Section 96 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 1 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 2(1), 2(2)(b) and 2(3)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 3 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 4(1),
4(2) to 4(8), 4(9), 4(10), 4(13) to 4(18), 4(19)(b), 4(20), 4(21), 4(23) to
4(29), 4(32)(a)(i) and (ii), 4(32)(b) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)
S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 4(9) (in so far as it omits sections 333(1ZA), 333(2) to
333(6) and 334 to 335), 4(12), 4(19)(a), 4(22), 4(30)(a)(ii), 4(30)(b), 4(31),
4(32)(a)(iii), 4(33)(a), 4(33)(b) (in so far as it omits certain definitions),
4(33)(d), 4(33)(e) and 4(33)(g) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) The Schedule, paragraph 6(d)(v), 6(f), 6(g), 6(j)(i), 6(l)(i), 6(l)(iii),
6(n)(ii) (in so far as it omits paragraph 11 of Schedule 2), and 6(t) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 7
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 8 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraphs 9 and 10 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 11(a) (partially)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 11(b) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 12(a) (partially)     1
September 2021       1 January 2022         S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 12(b) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 13 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 14(1) to (3)
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 14(1) and 14(4) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116)  (C .12) The Schedule, paragraph 15(1)
and 15(3) to 15(4) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraphs 17 and 18 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)
The Schedule, paragraph 19(1), (2), (3), (5)(a) to (d), (5)(e)(i), (5)(f) and
(6) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph
19(1),(4) and (5)(g) and (h) (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 19(1), (5)(e)(ii) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)
S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 20 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 21 (1), (2)(a)(i) and (2)(b)(ii) (partially) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315)
(C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317)
(C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 21(1) and 21(b)(i) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 22 (partially) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315)
(C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317)
(C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 23(1), 23(3)(a) to (c) and (5) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 23(1) and (4)
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 24(1) and 24(3)
and (6)(a) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1
January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316)
(C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph
24(1), 24(2), (5) and (6)(b) and (c) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116)
(C. 12)

