Title: The Cessation of EU Law Relating to Prohibitions on Grounds of Nationality and Free Movement of Persons Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-07-02
Description: These Regulations are made in exercise of powers conferred by section 8(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 (c. 16) (in particular under section 8(2)(a) and (d)) in order to address failures of retained EU law to operate effectively and other deficiencies arising from the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1240

## The Cessation of EU Law Relating to Prohibitions on Grounds of Nationality and Free Movement of Persons Regulations 2022

    Exiting The European Union

  Made   28th November 2022

  Coming into force   29th November 2022

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
8(1) of, and paragraph 21 of Schedule 7 to, the European Union (Withdrawal)
Act 2018  makes the following Regulations.           In accordance with
paragraph 1(3) of Schedule 7 to that Act, a draft of this instrument has been
laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Cessation of EU Law Relating to
Prohibitions on Grounds of Nationality and Free Movement of Persons
Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on the day after the day on which they are
made.

1.3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.4

Nothing in these Regulations is to be construed as implying in any respect the
continued application, recognition or availability in domestic law of—

1.4.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.4.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.4.c

Article 7(2) of Regulation (EU) No 492/2011 of the European Parliament and of
the Council of 5th April 2011 on freedom of movement for workers within the
Union.

### Cessation of prohibitions on grounds of nationality

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Cessation of free movement of persons

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendment of Regulation (EU) No 492/2011

4

4.1

Regulation (EU) No 492/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
5th April 2011 on freedom of movement for workers within the Union  is amended
as follows.

4.2

In Article 7—

4.2.a

after paragraph 2, insert—

4.2.a.2A

Paragraphs 1 and 2 do not apply in relation to the matters set out in the
Schedule to the Cessation of EU Law Relating to Prohibitions on Grounds of
Nationality and Free Movement of Persons Regulations 2022 (relevant matters).

;

4.2.b

omit paragraph 3.

4.3

Omit Articles 9 and 10.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
Guy Opperman   Minister of State   Department for Work and Pensions     28th
November 2022

  Relevant Matters

Regulation 1(3)

##### Social security and statutory payments

1

1.1

Social security, including—

1.1.a

any scheme providing financial assistance to or in respect of individuals, in
particular providing such assistance to or in respect of individuals—

1.1.a.i

who qualify by reason of old age, survivorship, bereavement, disability,
sickness, incapacity, injury, unemployment, maternity, paternity, the care
they provide to other individuals or having responsibility for other
individuals;

1.1.a.ii

who qualify by reason of low income; or

1.1.a.iii

in relation to their housing costs; and

1.1.b

tax credits under Part 1 of the Tax Credits Act 2002 .

1.2

The following payments under the following Parts of the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 —

1.2.a

statutory adoption pay under Part 12ZB ;

1.2.b

statutory maternity pay under Part 12 ;

1.2.c

statutory parental bereavement pay under Part 12ZD ;

1.2.d

statutory paternity pay under Part 12ZA ;

1.2.e

statutory shared parental pay under Part 12ZC ; and

1.2.f

statutory sick pay under Part 11 .

1.3

Sub-paragraph (2) is without prejudice to sub-paragraph (1).

##### Social assistance

2

2.1

Social assistance, within the meaning of  Directive 2004/38/EC  of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 29th April 2004 on the right of
citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely
within the territory of the Member States  (“ the Directive ”).

2.2

The reference in subparagraph (1) to the Directive includes a reference to the
case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union which interprets the
concept of social assistance.

##### Housing

3

3.1

Housing, including—

3.1.a

any accommodation provided to homeless persons; and

3.1.b

mobile homes.

3.2

“ Mobile home ” means a caravan, motor vehicle, boat or other movable
structure designed or adapted for human habitation, but does not include—

3.2.a

any railway rolling stock which is for the time being on rails forming part of
a railway system; or

3.2.b

any tent.

##### Education, training and apprenticeships

4

Education, training and apprenticeships, including—

4.a

social and physical training (including the promotion of the development of
young children);

4.b

vocational training (including that which helps people prepare for, obtain and
retain employment);

4.c

the charging of fees in connection with education and training; and

4.d

the provision of financial assistance or financial resources in connection
with education, training or apprenticeships.

##### Childcare, employer-supported childcare and the childcare payment scheme, etc.

5

5.1

Childcare, including—

5.1.a

the provision of childcare free of charge; and

5.1.b

the provision of financial assistance or financial resources in connection
with the provision of childcare, including—

5.1.b.i

childcare vouchers, within the meaning given in section 84 of the Income Tax
(Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003  (“ the 2003 Act ”), or a scheme to which
section 270A of that Act applies;

5.1.b.ii

a scheme to which section 318 of the 2003 Act  applies (employer-provided
childcare);

5.1.b.iii

a scheme to which section 318A of the 2003 Act applies (employer-contracted
childcare) ;

5.1.b.iv

a scheme under section 1 of the Childcare Payments Act 2014  (childcare
payment scheme).

5.2

“Childcare”, for the purposes of this paragraph, means any form of care for a
child but does not include—

5.2.a

any form of health care for a child;

5.2.b

care provided for a child if the care—

5.2.b.i

is provided in any of the following establishments as part of the
establishment’s activities—

5.2.b.i.aa

a children’s home;

5.2.b.i.bb

a care home;

5.2.b.i.cc

a hospital in which the child is a patient;

5.2.b.i.dd

a residential family centre; and

5.2.b.ii

is so provided by the person carrying on the establishment or a person
employed by the establishment (including a person who is employed under a
contract of services); or

5.2.c

care provided for a child who is detained in—

5.2.c.i

a young offender institution;

5.2.c.ii

a secure training college; or

5.2.c.iii

a secure college.

5.3

In this paragraph—

      “ care home ”, “ children’s home ” and “ residential family centre ”
have the same meaning as in the Care Standards Act 2000 ;           “ child ”
means a person under the age of 18, except for the purposes of sub-paragraph
(1)(b)(i) to (iv);           “ hospital ” has the meaning given by section 275
of the National Health Service Act 2006 .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations are made in exercise of powers conferred by section 8(1)
of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act  2018 (c. 16)  (in particular under
section 8(2)(a) and (d)) in order to address failures of retained EU law to
operate effectively and other deficiencies arising from the withdrawal of the
United Kingdom from the European Union.

  These Regulations, at regulations 2 and 3, provide for the cessation of
certain redundant EU rights and prohibitions in relation to the relevant
matters set out in the Schedule. Regulation 4 amends Regulation (EU) No
492/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on freedom of movement
for workers within the Union for the same purpose.

  No impact assessment has been prepared for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is foreseen.

