Title: The Childcare (Free of Charge for Working Parents) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-10-14
Description: These Regulations secure that childcare is available free of charge for qualifying children of working parents.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1134

## The Childcare (Free of Charge for Working Parents) (England) Regulations 2022

    Childcare, England       Local Authorities, England

  Made   8th November 2022

  Laid before Parliament   10th November 2022

  Coming into force   1st December 2022

      The Secretary of State for Education makes these Regulations in exercise
of the powers conferred by sections 1(2), (3), (4) and (7), 2(1), (2), (4) and
(5) and 4(2) of the Childcare Act 2016 .           In accordance with section
2(3) of the Childcare Act 2016, these Regulations are made with the consent of
the Treasury.

### Preliminary provisions

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Childcare (Free of Charge for Working Parents) (England)
Regulations 2022, and

1.b

come into force on 1st December 2022.

#### Extent and application

2

These Regulations—

2.a

extend to England and Wales, and

2.b

apply in relation to England.

#### Consequential amendments and revocations

3

The Schedule makes consequential amendments and revocations.

### Interpretation

#### Definitions

4

4.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Childcare Act 2016; “ adjusted net income ” has the
meaning given in section 58 of the Income Tax Act 2007 ; “ care plan ” has the
meaning given in regulation  5 ; “ childcare provider ” has the meaning given
in regulation  6 ;   “ childminder ” means an early years childminder within
the meaning given in section 96(4) of the Childcare Act 2006 but as if the
definition in that subsection was not subject to subsection (5) of that
section;   “ the Commissioners ” means the Commissioners for His Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs; “ declaration ” means a declaration under section 1(2)(e)
of the Act; “ early years childminder agency ” has the meaning given in
section 98(1) of the Childcare Act 2006 ; “ employee ” has the meaning given
in regulation  7 ; “ the First-tier Tribunal ” means the tribunal established
under section 3(1) of the Tribunal, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ; “ foster
parent ” has the meaning given in regulation  8 ; “ inspection report ” means—
in relation to an early years childminder agency, a report under section 51E
of the Childcare Act 2006 ; in relation to a childcare provider, a report
under any of the following— section 5 of the Education Act 2005 ; section 50
of the Childcare Act 2006 ; section 109 of the Education and Skills Act 2008 ;
“ limited capability for work ” means limited capability for work under—
regulation 39 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013, or regulation 40 of
the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016;   “ limited
capability for work and work-related activity ” means limited capability for
work and work-related activity under— regulation 40 of the Universal Credit
Regulations 2013, or regulation 41 of the Universal Credit Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2016;   “ looked after by a local authority ” has the
meaning given in regulation  9 ; “ partner ” has the meaning given in
regulation  10 ; “ relevant tax year ” means, in relation to a declaration,
the tax year in which the declaration is made;   “ responsible local authority
” means— in relation to a child who meets the description in regulation
9(1)(a), the local authority who looks after the child, or in relation to a
child who meets the description in regulation 9(1)(b), (c) or (d), the English
local authority for the area in which the child may be a qualifying child of
working parents;   “ review ” means a review under regulation  36 ; ...   “
specified benefit ” has the meaning given in regulation 11A;   “ tax year ”
has the meaning given in section 4(2) of the Income Tax Act 2007.

4.2

The following table—

4.2.a

sets out the expressions of the Act used in these Regulations, and

4.2.b

shows where in that Act each of those expressions is defined.

Expression used in these Regulations Location of definition in the Act
“childcare” sections 1(9) and 2(8) “English local authority” section 2(8)
“parent” section 1(9) “qualifying child of working parents” section 1(2)
“young child” section 1(9)

#### Meaning of “care plan”

5

A “care plan” is any of the following—

5.a

a care plan within the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of the Care Planning,
Placement and Case Review (England) Regulations 2010 ;

5.b

arrangements recorded in writing under regulation 3(5) of the Arrangements for
Placement of Children (General) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 ;

5.c

a child’s plan prepared under regulation 5 of the Looked After Children
(Scotland) Regulations 2009 ;

5.d

a care and support plan maintained under section 83 of the Social Services and
Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 .

#### Meaning of “childcare provider”

6

6.1

A “childcare provider” is an early years provider—

6.1.a

who is not an excluded provider, and

6.1.b

to whom section 40 of the Childcare Act 2006 (duty to implement Early Years
Foundation Stage) applies.

6.2

An excluded provider is any of the following—

6.2.a

an independent school, other than an Academy school, that does not meet the
standards prescribed under section 157(1)(b) of the Education Act 2002  (which
relate to the spiritual, moral, social and cultural development of pupils at
independent schools);

6.2.b

an early years provider any English local authority has reasonable grounds to
believe—

6.2.b.i

does not actively promote the fundamental British values of democracy, the
rule of law, individual liberty and mutual respect and tolerance of those with
different faiths and beliefs, or

6.2.b.ii

promotes as evidence-based views or theories those contrary to established
scientific or historical evidence and explanations.

6.3

In this regulation—

“ Academy school ” has the meaning given in section 1A of the Academies Act
2010 ; “ early years provider ” has the meaning given in section 96(3) of the
Childcare Act 2006.

#### Meaning of “employee”

7

7.1

An “employee” is any of the following—

7.1.a

a person in employment under a contract of service  ...;

7.1.b

a person who is the holder of an office (including an elected office);

7.1.c

a person in an engagement to which a relevant Chapter applies;

7.1.d

a person who expects, in relation to a declaration, to be a person mentioned
in any of paragraphs (a) to (c) within   the applicable period.

7.2

In this regulation—

  “ applicable period ” means, in relation to a person (“ P ”) who expects to
become a person mentioned in any of paragraph (1)(a) to (c) on a date in the
period specified in the first column of the table, the period specified in the
corresponding second column of the table. P expects to become a person
mentioned in any of paragraph (1)(a) to (c) in the period— Applicable period—
i beginning with 1st February and ending with the next 30th April begins with
1st January immediately preceding the start of the period specified in the
first column and ends with the next 30th April ii beginning with 1st May and
ending with the next 30th September begins with 1st April immediately
preceding the start of the period specified in the first column and ends with
the next 30th September iii beginning with 1st October and ending with the
next 31st January begins with 1st September immediately preceding the start of
period specified in the first column and ends with the next 31st January;   “
office ” has the meaning given in section 5(3) of the Income Tax (Earnings and
Pensions) Act 2003 ; “ relevant Chapter ” means any of Chapters 7 to 10 of
Part 2 of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003  (which relate to
agency workers and workers’ services provided through intermediaries or
managed service companies).

#### Meaning of “foster parent”

8

8.1

A “foster parent” is any of the following—

8.1.a

a person who—

8.1.a.i

is approved as a local authority foster parent in accordance with regulations
made by virtue of paragraph 12F of Schedule 2 to the Children Act 1989 , and

8.1.a.ii

has a child placed with the person under section 22C(5) of that Act ;

8.1.b

a person who—

8.1.b.i

is an authority foster parent within the meaning given in article 27(3) of the
Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , and

8.1.b.ii

has a child placed with the person under article 27(2)(a) of that Order;

8.1.c

a person who—

8.1.c.i

is a foster carer within the meaning given in regulation 2 of the Looked After
Children (Scotland) Regulations 2009, and

8.1.c.ii

has a child placed with the person pursuant to a permanence order under
section 80 of the Adoption and Children (Scotland) Act 2007 ;

8.1.d

a person who—

8.1.d.i

is a local authority foster parent within the meaning given in section 197(1)
of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014 , and

8.1.d.ii

has a child placed with the person under section 81(5) of that Act.

#### Meaning of “looked after by a local authority”

9

9.1

A young child is “looked after by a local authority” if the child is any the
following—

9.1.a

a child who is looked after by a local authority within the meaning given in
section 22(1) of the Children Act 1989 ;

9.1.b

a child who is looked after by an authority within the meaning given in
article 25(1) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995;

9.1.c

a child who is looked after by a local authority within the meaning given in
section 17(6) of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 ;

9.1.d

a child who is looked after by a local authority within the meaning given in
section 74(1) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014.

9.2

Despite paragraph  (1) , a young child is not looked after by a local
authority during any period the child is—

9.2.a

being looked after by an English local authority for the purposes of providing
a brief respite for the person with whom the child normally lives,

9.2.b

placed with a foster parent (see regulation  8 ), or

9.2.c

placed with any other person pursuant to arrangements made under—

9.2.c.i

section 22C(2) of the Children Act 1989,

9.2.c.ii

article 27(2)(a) of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995,

9.2.c.iii

regulation 8(1) or 11 of the Looked After Children (Scotland) Regulations
2009, or

9.2.c.iv

section 81(2) of the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014.

#### Meaning of “partner”

10

10.1

A person is a “partner” of another person if—

10.1.a

the person is—

10.1.a.i

married to, or the civil partner of, the other person, and

10.1.a.ii

a member of the same household as the other person, or

10.1.b

the person is living together with the other person as if they were a married
couple or civil partners.

10.2

Despite paragraph (1), a person is not a partner of another person if either
person is—

10.2.a

under 16 years of age,

10.2.b

serving a sentence of imprisonment, or

10.2.c

remaining with a third person in a pre-existing relationship of a kind
mentioned in paragraph (1).

10.3

A person is not a member of the same household as, or living together with,
another person if—

10.3.a

the person is absent, and

10.3.b

the absence exceeds, or is expected to exceed, 6 months.

#### Meaning of “person in the United Kingdom”

11

11.1

A “person in the United Kingdom” is any of the following—

11.1.a

a person who is—

11.1.a.i

ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom,  ...

11.1.a.ii

not a person taxed as if they were not so resident by virtue of double
taxation arrangements  , and

11.1.a.iii

not a person subject to immigration control;

11.1.b

a person who is—

11.1.b.i

a resident of an EEA State or Switzerland,

11.1.b.ii

in paid work in the United Kingdom, and

11.1.b.iii

not a person subject to immigration control;

11.1.c

a person who has been granted—

11.1.c.i

refugee permission to stay or temporary refugee permission to stay under rule
339QA of the Immigration Rules, or

11.1.c.ii

temporary humanitarian permission to stay under rule 339QB of the Immigration
Rules;

11.1.d

a person who has been granted, or deemed to have been granted, outside the
Immigration Rules—

11.1.d.i

discretionary leave to remain , or

11.1.d.ii

leave to remain under the destitution domestic violence concession ;

11.1.e

a person who—

11.1.e.i

has been deported, expelled or otherwise removed by compulsion of law from
another country to the United Kingdom, and

11.1.e.ii

is not a person subject to immigration control.

11.2

In this regulation—

“ a person subject to immigration control ” has the meaning given in section
115(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ; “ double taxation arrangements
” means arrangements that have effect under section 2(1) of the Taxation
(International and Other Provisions) Act 2010 ; “ the Immigration Rules ”
means the rules laid before Parliament under section 3(2) of the Immigration
Act 1971 ; “ paid work ” means work done for payment or in expectation of
payment and does not include being engaged by a charitable or voluntary
organisation, or as a volunteer, in circumstances in which the payment
received by or due to be paid to the person is in respect of expenses.

#### Meaning of “specified benefit”

11A

11A.1

A “specified benefit” is any of the following—

11A.1.a

carer’s allowance under—

11A.1.a.i

section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , or

11A.1.a.ii

section 70 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992 ;

11A.1.b

carer’s assistance given in accordance with regulations made under section 28
of the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018  except a young carer grant given
under the Carer’s Assistance (Young Carer Grants) (Scotland) Regulations 2019
;

11A.1.c

the carer element  under—

11A.1.c.i

regulation 29 of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 , or

11A.1.c.ii

regulation 30 of the Universal Credit Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2016 ;

11A.1.d

credits for incapacity for work or limited capability for work under—

11A.1.d.i

regulation 8B of the Social Security (Credits) Regulations 1975 , or

11A.1.d.ii

regulation 8B of the Social Security (Credits) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
1975 ;

11A.1.e

employment and support allowance under—

11A.1.e.i

section 1 of the Welfare Reform Act 2007 , or

11A.1.e.ii

section 1 of the Welfare Reform Act (Northern Ireland) 2007 ;

11A.1.f

long-term incapacity benefit under—

11A.1.f.i

regulation 11(4) or 17(1) of the Social Security (Incapacity Benefit)
(Transitional) Regulations 1995 , or

11A.1.f.ii

regulation 11(4) or 17(1) of the Social Security (Incapacity Benefit)
(Transitional) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 ;

11A.1.g

long-term or short-term incapacity benefit under—

11A.1.g.i

section 30A, 40 or 41 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act
1992 , or

11A.1.g.ii

section 30A, 40 or 41 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
(Northern Ireland) Act 1992 ;

11A.1.h

severe disablement allowance under—

11A.1.h.i

section 68 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , or

11A.1.h.ii

section 68 of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern
Ireland) Act 1992 .

#### When periods begin and end

12

A period of time described in these Regulations in a manner set out in the
table is calculated in accordance with the corresponding rule.

If the period is described as— then the period— beginning  or ending   with a
specified day includes that specified day. being within a specified number of
days of a specified day does not include that specified day. ending before a
specified day does not include that specified day.

### Determinations as to qualifying children of working parents

#### Description of young child

##### Description of young child

13

13.1

This regulation relates to section 1(2)(c) of the Act .

13.2

A young child must be a child who—

13.2.a

has attained the age of    nine months , and

13.2.b

is not looked after by a local authority (see regulation  9 ).

#### Conditions relating to parent and partner of parent

##### Conditions relating to parent

14

14.1

This regulation relates to section 1(2)(d) of the Act .

14.2

A parent of a young child must be a parent mentioned in paragraph (3) or (4).

14.3

A parent who—

14.3.a

meets the qualifying paid work requirement in regulation  16  or  17 ,

14.3.b

seeks the childcare, which is available free of charge by virtue of the Act,
to enable the parent, or the parent’s partner (if any), to work,

14.3.c

does not for the relevant tax year—

14.3.c.i

expect their adjusted net income to exceed £100,000,

14.3.c.ii

make a claim under section 809B of the Income Tax Act 2007 (which relates to
certain residents not domiciled in the United Kingdom), or

14.3.c.iii

expect section 809E of Income Tax Act 2007 to apply (which relates to certain
residents not domiciled in the United Kingdom), and

14.3.d

if a foster parent of the young child, has confirmation from the responsible
local authority that it is satisfied that engaging in paid work other than as
a foster parent is consistent with the child’s care plan (see regulation  5 ).

14.4

A parent who—

14.4.a

has a partner   mentioned in regulation 15(3),   and

14.4.b

is any of the following—

14.4.b.i

a person with limited capability for work;

14.4.b.ii

a person with limited capability for work and work-related activity;

14.4.b.iii

a person entitled to a specified benefit;

14.4.b.iv

a resident of an EEA State or Switzerland who is, under the law of the EEA
State or Switzerland, entitled to a benefit of a kind that is substantially
similar to a specified benefit.

14.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Conditions relating to partner of parent

15

15.1

This regulation relates to section 1(2)(d) of the Act .

15.2

If a parent of a young child has a partner, the partner must be a person
mentioned in paragraph (3) or (4).

15.3

A person who—

15.3.a

meets the qualifying paid work requirement in regulation 16 or 17,

15.3.b

does not for the relevant tax year—

15.3.b.i

expect their adjusted net income to exceed £100,000,

15.3.b.ii

make a claim under section 809B of the Income Tax Act 2007  (claim for
remittance basis to apply), or

15.3.b.iii

expect section 809E of Income Tax Act 2007  to apply (application of
remittance basis without claim: other cases), and

15.3.c

if a foster parent of the young child, has confirmation from the responsible
local authority that it is satisfied that engaging in any paid work other than
as a foster parent is consistent with the child’s care plan.

15.4

A person who is the partner of a parent mentioned in regulation 14(3) and who—

15.4.a

has limited capability for work;

15.4.b

has limited capability for work and work-related activity;

15.4.c

is entitled to a specified benefit; or

15.4.d

is a resident of an EEA State or Switzerland who is, under the law of the EEA
State or Switzerland, entitled to a benefit of a kind that is substantially
similar to a specified benefit.

##### Qualifying paid work requirement: employee

16

16.1

A person who is an employee is in qualifying paid work if the person—

16.1.a

holds a national insurance number (unless paragraph (2) applies), and

16.1.b

meets the minimum income requirement in regulation  18  (unless paragraph (3)
applies).

16.2

Despite paragraph  (1) (a) , a person is not required to hold a national
insurance number if the person is—

16.2.a

a resident of an EEA State or Switzerland, and

16.2.b

not an employee in the United Kingdom.

16.3

Despite paragraph  (1) (b) , a person is not required to meet the minimum
income requirement during any of the following—

16.3.a

any period the person is—

16.3.a.i

a foster parent,  ... or

16.3.a.ii

on specified leave other than leave of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph
(b);

16.3.b

in the case of a person on specified leave that—

16.3.b.i

is not specified leave of the kind mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(vi),
(a)(vii), (b)(iv) or (b)(vii) of the definition in paragraph (4), and

16.3.b.ii

was started because of the birth or adoption of a child in respect of whom a
declaration is being made,

  the applicable period .

16.3.c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16.3A

In the case of a person in an EEA State or Switzerland, the references in
paragraph (3)(a) and (b) to a person on specified leave of a particular kind
mean any period the person is, under the law of that EEA State or Switzerland,
on leave of a kind substantially similar to that kind of specified leave.

16.4

In this regulation—

...   “ applicable period ” means, in relation to a person (“ P ”) who returns
to work from specified leave on a date in the period specified in the first
column of the table, the period beginning with the date specified in the
corresponding second column of the table and ending with the day before the
day on which P returns to work. P returns to work from specified leave on a
date in the period— Applicable period begins with— i beginning with 1st
February and ending with the next 30th April 1st January immediately preceding
the start of the period specified in the first column ii beginning with 1st
May and ending with the next 30th September 1st April immediately preceding
the start of the period specified in the first column iii beginning with 1st
October and ending with the next 31st January 1st September immediately
preceding the start of the period specified in the first column;   “
employment rights enactment ” means any of the following— the Employment
Rights Act 1996 ; the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996 ; “
national insurance number ” means a national insurance number allocated under
any of the following— the National Insurance Act 1965 ; the National Insurance
Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 ; the Social Security Act 1975 ; the Social
Security (Northern Ireland) Act 1975 ;   “ the Social Security Contributions
and Benefits Act ” means either of the following— the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act 1992; the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992   “ specified leave ” means, in relation
to a person, any of the following— a period the person is, under an employment
rights enactment, absent from work during any of the following—   ordinary or
additional maternity leave;  ordinary or additional adoption leave; shared
parental leave; parental leave; paternity leave; parental bereavement leave;
carer’s leave;   a period the person is, under   the Social Security
Contributions and Benefits Act , receiving any of the following— state
maternity allowance; statutory adoption pay; statutory maternity pay;
statutory parental bereavement pay; statutory paternity pay; statutory shared
parental pay; statutory sick pay.

##### Qualifying paid work requirement: self-employed person

17

17.1

A person who is a self-employed person is in qualifying paid work if the
person—

17.1.a

holds a national insurance number (unless paragraph (2) applies), and

17.1.b

meets the minimum income requirement in regulation  18  (unless paragraph (3)
applies).

17.2

Despite paragraph  (1) (a) , a person is not required to hold a national
insurance number if the person is—

17.2.a

a resident of an EEA State or Switzerland, and

17.2.b

not in self-employment in the United Kingdom.

17.3

Despite paragraph  (1) (b) , a person is not required to meet the minimum
income requirement during any of the following—

17.3.a

any period the person would, if the person were an employee, not be required
to meet the minimum income requirement (see regulation  16(3) );

17.3.b

if the person is in a start-up period, the period of 12 months beginning with
the day on which the declaration relating to the person is made.

17.4

In this regulation, “ start-up period ” means the period of 12 months—

17.4.a

beginning with the day on which the person commences self-employment, but

17.4.b

only if the person did not commence self-employment in any trade, profession
or vocation in the period of five years ending before that day.

##### Minimum income requirement

18

18.1

A person meets the minimum income requirement if the amount of income the
person expects to earn from qualifying paid work in the relevant period is an
amount of income equal to or greater than the product of—

18.1.a

the minimum weekly income, and

18.1.b

the number of weeks in the relevant period.

18.2

The person may include the amount of income the person expects to earn as—

18.2.a

an employee,

18.2.b

a self-employed person, or

18.2.c

an employee and a self-employed person.

18.3

In this regulation—

“ income ” means— in relation to an employee— any earnings within the meaning
given in section 62 of the Income Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003, and
any amount treated as earnings under Chapters 7 to 10 of Part 2 of the Income
Tax (Earnings and Pensions) Act 2003 (which relate to agency workers and
workers’ services provided through intermediaries or managed service
companies); in relation to a self-employed person— the amount of non-capital
receipts the person expects to derive from a trade, profession or vocation
less the amount of non-capital expenses the person expects to incur wholly and
exclusively for the purposes of the trade, profession or vocation, or if the
person carries on a trade, profession or vocation in a business partnership,
the share expected to be allocated to the person of the partnership’s non-
capital receipts less the share expected to be allocated to that person of the
partnership’s non-capital expenses incurred wholly and exclusively for the
purposes of the trade, profession or vocation; “ minimum weekly income ”
means, in relation to a person, the product of— 16, and the hourly rate of the
national minimum wage to which the person is entitled to be paid under the
National Minimum Wage Act 1998 ; “ non-capital ” means not of a capital
nature; “ relevant period ” means one of the following— in the case of income
as an employee, the period of three months   beginning with—  the day on which
the declaration relating to the employee is made, or if regulation 7(1)(d)
applies, the day on which the person expects to be a person mentioned in any
of regulation 7(1)(a) to (c); in the case of income as a self-employed person,
any of the following— the period   of three months beginning with the day on
which the declaration relating to the employee is made ; the relevant tax
year; in the case of income as an employee and a self-employed person, the
period mentioned in paragraph (a).

#### Declaration

##### How to make a declaration

19

19.1

This regulation relates to section 1(2)(e) of the Act .

19.2

A person who makes a declaration in respect of a young child must be—

19.2.a

the parent, or the partner of the parent, with whom the child normally lives,
and

19.2.b

a person in the United Kingdom.

19.3

The declaration must be made—

19.3.a

to the relevant authority,

19.3.b

in either of the periods mentioned in regulation  20 , and

19.3.c

in the form and manner specified under regulation  21  (if any).

19.4

In this regulation—

      “ person in the United Kingdom ” has the meaning given in regulation  11
;           “ relevant authority ” means—         in the case of a declaration
in respect of a child who is placed with a foster parent, the responsible
local authority, or           in the case of any other declaration, the
Commissioners.

##### When a declaration may be made

20

A declaration in respect of a young child may be made—

20.a

in the period of 16 weeks ending with the day before the day on which the
child will meet the description in regulation 13 (if known), or

20.b

in the period—

20.b.i

beginning with the day on which the child meets the description in regulation
13 , and

20.b.ii

ending  with the day   before the day on which the child ceases to satisfy the
requirements of section 1(2)(a) or (b) of the Act .

##### Form and manner of declaration

21

21.1

The Commissioners or the responsible local authority (as the case may be) may
specify the form of a declaration and the manner in which it is to be made.

21.2

The specification may (amongst other things)—

21.2.a

require a declaration to include information to—

21.2.a.i

identify the person making the declaration (and any partner of that person),

21.2.a.ii

identify the young child in respect of whom the declaration is being made, and

21.2.a.iii

determine whether the young child is a qualifying child of working parents;

21.2.b

require a declaration to be made by electronic communications;

21.2.c

if a declaration relates to a self-employed person, require a declaration to
be accompanied by confirmation, orally or in writing, that the self-employed
person has complied with any notice given under section 8(1) of the Taxes
Management Act 1970 (which relates to personal returns).

#### Determination

##### Determination of qualifying child of working parents: Commissioners

22

22.1

This regulation applies if—

22.1.a

a person makes a declaration to the Commissioners in respect of a young child,
and

22.1.b

the Commissioners have not declined to make a determination in respect of the
declaration (see regulation  23 ).

22.2

The Commissioners must—

22.2.a

make a determination as to whether the child is a qualifying child of working
parents,

22.2.b

notify the person of the determination, and

22.2.c

include in that notification a statement to the effect that the person has—

22.2.c.i

a right to apply to the Commissioners for a review of the determination (see
regulation  36 ), and

22.2.c.ii

a right to appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the determination, but
only after the Commissioners have considered an application for a review (see
regulation  40 ).

##### Power to decline to make a determination

23

23.1

This regulation applies if—

23.1.a

two or more persons each make a declaration to the Commissioners in respect of
the same young child, and

23.1.b

it appears to the Commissioners that two or more of those persons may meet the
requirements in regulation  19(2)  (which provides for who can make a
declaration).

23.2

The Commissioners may, in respect of one or more of the declarations, decline
to make a determination as to whether the child is a qualifying child of
working parents.

23.3

If the Commissioners decline to make a determination, they must—

23.3.a

notify the person who made the declaration, and

23.3.b

include in the notification a statement to the effect that the person has—

23.3.b.i

a right to apply to the Commissioners for a review of the decision (see
regulation  36 ), and

23.3.b.ii

a right to appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the decision, but only
after the Commissioners have considered an application for a review (see
regulation  40 ).

##### Determination of qualifying child of working parents: responsible local authority

24

24.1

This regulation applies if a person makes a declaration to the responsible
local authority in respect of a young child placed with a foster parent.

24.2

The responsible local authority (on behalf of the Commissioners) must—

24.2.a

make a determination as to whether the child is a qualifying child of working
parents, and

24.2.b

notify the person of the determination.

#### Effect of declaration

##### Period for which declaration has effect

25

25.1

A declaration in respect of a young child has effect for three months
beginning with—

25.1.a

the day on which the young child is determined to be a qualifying child of
working parents, or

25.1.b

if the declaration was made in accordance with regulation  20(a)  (which
provides for anticipatory declarations), the day on which the young child
meets the description in regulation  13 .

25.2

Despite paragraph (1), the Commissioners may, if they consider it appropriate,
vary the period for which a declaration has effect—

25.2.a

by no more than two months to align the period with—

25.2.a.i

any entitlement period relating to the child in respect of whom the
declaration was made,

25.2.a.ii

the period for which any declaration relating to another child has effect, or

25.2.a.iii

any entitlement period relating to another child, or

25.2.b

by no more than one month for any other reason.

25.3

This regulation is subject to regulation  26  (when parallel declaration
ceases to have effect).

25.4

In this regulation—

      “ another child ” means—         another child of the parent of the
young child in respect of whom the declaration was made, or           a child
of the partner of that parent;                 “ entitlement period ” means a
period determined in accordance with section 5 of the Childcare Payments Act
2014  (which relates to the receipt of money towards childcare costs).

##### When a parallel declaration ceases to have effect

26

26.1

This regulation applies if—

26.1.a

a person has made a declaration in respect of a young child (“Declaration A”),

26.1.b

Declaration A has effect (see regulation  25 ),

26.1.c

another person makes a declaration in respect of the same child (“Declaration
B”), and

26.1.d

the child is, in relation to Declaration B, determined to be a qualifying
child of working parents.

26.2

Declaration A ceases to have effect beginning with the day on which
Declaration B has effect.

#### Eligibility for childcare

##### Period of eligibility for childcare

27

27.1

A child is eligible for childcare under section 1 of the Act for the period—

27.1.a

beginning with whichever of 1st January, 1st April or 1st September is the
first date  ... after the day on which a declaration in respect of the child
has effect, and

27.1.b

ending  with the day   before the day on which the child ceases to be a
qualifying child of working parents .

27.2

A year begins with the date calculated in accordance with paragraph  (1)  for
the purposes of determining in relation to the child whether the duty in
section 1(1) of the Act has been discharged .

#### Disclosure of information

##### Information relating to immigration and social security

28

28.1

The Secretary of State may disclose to the Commissioners any information held
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of their functions relating to any
of the following—

28.1.a

immigration control;

28.1.b

social security.

28.2

The Commissioners may use the information only in connection with the making
of a determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working
parents.

##### Information relating to qualifying child of working parents

29

The Secretary of State, the Commissioners and an English local authority may
disclose information to each other for the purpose of checking any of the
following—

29.a

whether a declaration in respect of a child has been made;

29.b

if a declaration in respect of a child has been made, whether the child was
determined to be a qualifying child of working parents (see regulations  22
and  24 );

29.c

if a child was determined to be a qualifying child of working parents, whether
the declaration in respect of the child has effect (see regulations  25  and
26 ).

### Offences and penalties

#### Offences

##### Offence relating to onward disclosure of personal information

30

30.1

A person commits an offence if—

30.1.a

the person discloses information in contravention of regulation  28  or  29 ,

30.1.b

the disclosure relates to any person whose identity—

30.1.b.i

is specified in the disclosure, or

30.1.b.ii

can be deduced from it, and

30.1.c

the disclosure is made other than in accordance with—

30.1.c.i

an enactment,

30.1.c.ii

an order of a court, or

30.1.c.iii

the written consent of the person to whom the information relates.

30.2

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this regulation to
prove that the person reasonably believed—

30.2.a

that the disclosure was lawful, or

30.2.b

that the information had already and lawfully been made available to the
public.

30.3

A person guilty of an offence under this regulation is liable—

30.3.a

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, to a fine or to both, or

30.3.b

on summary conviction—

30.3.b.i

in England and Wales, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, to a
fine or to both;

30.3.b.ii

in Northern Ireland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, to a
fine not exceeding the statutory maximum or to both;

30.3.b.iii

in Scotland, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12 months, to a fine not
exceeding the statutory maximum or to both.

#### Penalties

##### Penalty for dishonest conduct

31

31.1

A person is liable to a penalty under this regulation if the person engages in
dishonest conduct in connection with the process of making a determination of
a child’s eligibility for childcare under section 1 of the Act.

31.2

The amount of the penalty must not exceed £3,000.

##### Penalty for false or misleading information

32

32.1

A person is liable to a penalty under this regulation if the person, by reason
of a failure to take reasonable care, provides false or misleading
information, or makes or provides a false or misleading statement, in
connection with a determination of a child’s eligibility for childcare under
section 1 of the Act.

32.2

Despite paragraph  (1) , the person is not liable to the penalty if the
person—

32.2.a

becomes aware of the false or misleading information or statement, and

32.2.b

takes reasonable steps to inform the Commissioners or the responsible local
authority (as the case may be).

32.3

The amount of the penalty must not exceed £500.

##### Penalty for material inaccuracy in declaration

33

33.1

A person is liable to a penalty under this regulation if, by reason of a
failure to take reasonable care, the person includes a material inaccuracy in
a declaration.

33.2

The amount of the penalty must not exceed £300.

##### Assessment of penalty

34

34.1

If a person becomes liable to a penalty under any of regulations  31 ,  32  or
33 —

34.1.a

the Commissioners may, subject to paragraph (3), assess the penalty, and

34.1.b

if they do so, they must notify the person.

34.2

The notification must include a statement to the effect that the person has—

34.2.a

a right to apply to the Commissioners for a review of the penalty or its
amount (see regulation  36 ), and

34.2.b

a right to appeal to the First-tier Tribunal against the determination, but
only after the Commissioners have considered an application for a review (see
regulation  40 ).

34.3

The Commissioners must not assess a penalty in relation to a person after the
end of whichever of the following ends first—

34.3.a

the period of one year beginning with the day on which the Commissioners first
believed, or had reasonable grounds for believing, the person was liable to
the penalty;

34.3.b

in the case of a penalty under regulation  31 , the period of 20 years
beginning with the day on which the person became liable to the penalty;

34.3.c

in the case of a penalty under regulation  32 , the period of four years
beginning with the day on which the person became liable to the penalty.

##### Enforcement of penalty

35

35.1

This regulation applies if the Commissioners notify a person of a penalty (see
regulation  34 ).

35.2

The person must pay the penalty—

35.2.a

if the person does not apply for a review (see regulation  36 )—

35.2.a.i

within 30 days of the day on which the notification is made, or

35.2.a.ii

if the person is granted an extension to their right to apply for a review, on
or before the date notified under regulation  37(5)(a)(ii) ;

35.2.b

if the person applies for a review, unless the penalty is set aside, within 30
days of the day on which the person is notified of the outcome of the review
(see regulation  38(5) );

35.2.c

if the person gives notice of appeal (see regulation  39 ), unless the penalty
is set aside, on or before the day after the day on which—

35.2.c.i

the First-tier Tribunal gives a decision (see regulation  42 ), or

35.2.c.ii

if the person gives notice of the withdrawal of their case, the First-tier
Tribunal consents to that withdrawal.

35.3

A penalty may be enforced as if it were income tax charged in an assessment
and due and payable.

### Reviews and appeals

#### Reviews

##### Right to apply for review

36

36.1

This regulation applies if the Commissioners notify a person of any of the
following—

36.1.a

a decision to decline to make a determination as to whether a child is a
qualifying child of working parents (see regulation  23 );

36.1.b

a determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working parents
(see regulation  22 );

36.1.c

the assessment of a penalty (see regulation  34 ).

36.2

The person may apply to the Commissioners for a review of (as the case may
be)—

36.2.a

the decision,

36.2.b

the determination, or

36.2.c

the penalty or its amount.

36.3

The application must—

36.3.a

be made—

36.3.a.i

within 30 days of the day on which the notification is made, or

36.3.a.ii

if the person is granted an extension of their right to apply for a review, on
or before the date notified under regulation  37(5)(a)(ii) ,

36.3.b

be in the form and manner specified under paragraph (4) (if any), and

36.3.c

include the person’s reasons for the application.

36.4

The Commissioners may specify—

36.4.a

the form of an application, and

36.4.b

the manner in which it is to be made (which may require electronic
communications).

##### Extension of right to apply for review

37

37.1

This regulation applies if the Commissioners notify a person of a matter
mentioned in regulation  36(1) .

37.2

The person may apply to the Commissioners for an extension of their right to
apply for a review.

37.3

The application must—

37.3.a

be made within seven months of the day on which the notification is made,

37.3.b

be in the form and manner specified under paragraph (6) (if any), and

37.3.c

include the applicant’s reasons why it is, or was, not practicable for the
person to apply for the review within 30 days of the day on which the
notification is made.

37.4

The Commissioners may—

37.4.a

grant the application if they are satisfied—

37.4.a.i

it is (or was) not practicable due to special circumstances for the person to
apply for the review within 30 days of the day on which the notification is
made, and

37.4.a.ii

the granting of the application is reasonable in all the circumstances of the
case, or

37.4.b

decline the application.

37.5

If the Commissioners—

37.5.a

grant the application, they must—

37.5.a.i

specify a date on or before which the applicant must apply for the review, and

37.5.a.ii

notify the applicant of that date;

37.5.b

decline the application—

37.5.b.i

they must notify the applicant, and

37.5.b.ii

the applicant must not make any further application in respect of the matter.

37.6

The Commissioners may specify—

37.6.a

the form of the application, and

37.6.b

the manner in which the application is made.

##### Review procedure

38

38.1

This regulation applies if a person (“ the applicant ”) makes an application
for a review.

38.2

The Commissioners must—

38.2.a

review (as the case may be)—

38.2.a.i

the decision to decline to make a determination as to whether a child is a
qualifying child of working parents,

38.2.a.ii

the determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working
parents, or

38.2.a.iii

the imposition of the penalty or its amount, and

38.2.b

complete the review—

38.2.b.i

if no request under paragraph (3) is made, within 30 days of the day on which
the application is made,

38.2.b.ii

if a request under paragraph (3) is made, within 44 days of the day on which
the application is made, or

38.2.b.iii

within any other period agreed between the Commissioners and the applicant.

38.3

The Commissioners may ask the applicant to provide further information or
evidence in support of their application.

38.4

If the Commissioners ask for further information or evidence, the
Commissioners—

38.4.a

must consider any information or evidence the applicant provides to the
Commissioners within 14 days of the day on which the request is made, and

38.4.b

may disregard any information or evidence provided after that period.

38.5

Following the review, the Commissioners must—

38.5.a

confirm, revise or set aside (as the case may be)—

38.5.a.i

the decision,

38.5.a.ii

the determination, or

38.5.a.iii

the penalty or its amount, and

38.5.b

notify the applicant of the result of the review.

38.6

If the Commissioners revise a determination to determine that a child is a
qualifying child of working parents, the date of the determination is the date
on which the determination is revised.

#### Appeals

##### Right to appeal following review

39

39.1

This regulation applies if a person makes an application to the Commissioners
for a review of—

39.1.a

a decision to decline to make a determination as to whether a child is a
qualifying child of working parents,

39.1.b

a determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working
parents, or

39.1.c

a penalty or its amount.

39.2

Following the review, the person may appeal to the First-tier Tribunal
against (as the case may be)—

39.2.a

the decision (see regulation  40 ),

39.2.b

the determination (see regulation  41 ), or

39.2.c

the penalty or its amount (see regulation  42 ).

##### Appeal against decision to decline to make a determination

40

40.1

This regulation applies if a person appeals to the First-tier Tribunal against
a decision to decline to make a determination as to whether a child is a
qualifying child of working parents.

40.2

The Tribunal may—

40.2.a

confirm the decision, or

40.2.b

set aside the decision.

40.3

If the Tribunal sets aside the decision, the Commissioners must comply with
regulation  22(2)  in respect of the declaration (which requires a
determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working parents).

##### Appeal against determination as to qualifying child of working parents

41

41.1

This regulation applies if a person appeals to the First-tier Tribunal against
a determination as to whether a child is a qualifying child of working
parents.

41.2

The Tribunal may—

41.2.a

confirm the determination, or

41.2.b

withdraw any part of the determination the Tribunal finds was—

41.2.b.i

based on an error in fact, or

41.2.b.ii

wrong in law.

41.3

If the Tribunal withdraws a part of the determination—

41.3.a

it must for that part substitute its own determination, and

41.3.b

the substituted determination is to be treated as if it were a determination
made by the Commissioners or the responsible local authority (as the case may
be) on the date of the notice that states the Tribunal’s decision .

##### Appeal against imposition of penalty or amount

42

42.1

This regulation applies if a person appeals to the First-tier Tribunal against
the imposition of a penalty or its amount.

42.2

The Tribunal may—

42.2.a

uphold the imposition of the penalty,

42.2.b

set aside the penalty, or

42.2.c

substitute the amount of the penalty with an amount the Tribunal determines.

##### Power to settle appeals by agreement

43

43.1

This regulation applies if—

43.1.a

a person has a right of appeal to the First-tier Tribunal (see regulation  39
),

43.1.b

the person starts proceedings in the Tribunal (by sending or delivering a
notice of appeal to it), and

43.1.c

the Tribunal has not finally disposed of all issues in the proceedings.

43.2

The Commissioners may agree with the appellant, in writing or otherwise, that
the Commissioners’ decision, determination or penalty or its amount (as the
case may be) is to be treated as—

43.2.a

upheld without variation,

43.2.b

as varied in a particular manner, or

43.2.c

as discharged or cancelled.

43.3

If the agreement is not in writing, the Commissioners must notify the
appellant in writing of—

43.3.a

the fact that an agreement was made,

43.3.b

the terms agreed,

43.3.c

the date of the agreement, and

43.3.d

the appellant’s right under paragraph  (4)  to repudiate or resile from the
agreement.

43.4

The appellant may, within 30 days of the day on which the agreement is made,
give notice to the Commissioners that the appellant desires to repudiate or
resile from the agreement.

43.5

If the notice mentioned in paragraph  (4)  is not given—

43.5.a

the Commissioners must send notice of the agreement to the First-tier
Tribunal, and

43.5.b

the Tribunal must treat the notice as if it were a request for a consent
order.

43.6

In this regulation—

      “ appellant ” means the person mentioned in paragraph (1);           “
consent order ” means a consent order made by the First-tier Tribunal under
rule 32 of the Tribunal Procedure (First-tier Tribunal) (Social Entitlement
Chamber) Rules 2008 ;

### Duties of English local authorities

#### Childcare for qualifying children of working parents

##### Duty to secure childcare available free of charge

44

44.1

An English local authority must secure that childcare is made available free
of charge for every child in its area who is a qualifying child of working
parents.

44.2

The childcare must be—

44.2.a

provided by a childcare provider, and

44.2.b

made available for 570 hours during no fewer than 38 weeks in each year.

44.3

In determining, for the purposes of paragraph (1), the amount of childcare
that is available to a child, account is to be taken of any childcare
available under the duty imposed by section 7(1) of the Childcare Act 2006
(duty of English local authorities to secure early years provision free of
charge in accordance with regulations)—

44.3.a

during the period beginning with 1st April 2024 and ending with 31st August
2025, in respect of a young child who meets the condition in regulation 3(2),
but who does not also meet the condition in regulation 3(3), of the Local
Authority (Duty to Secure Early Years Provision Free of Charge) Regulations
2014  (prescribed description of a young child), and

44.3.b

from 1st September 2025, in respect of a young child who meets the condition
in regulation 3(2) or (3) of the Local Authority (Duty to Secure Early Years
Provision Free of Charge) Regulations 2014.

#### Arrangements for provision of childcare

##### Duty to make arrangements with childcare provider chosen by parent

45

45.1

The parent of a child in the area of an English local authority may choose a
childcare provider to provide the childcare the local authority must secure
for the child (see regulation  44 ).

45.2

The local authority must make arrangements for the childcare if the provider
is willing—

45.2.a

to provide the childcare to the child, and

45.2.b

to accept as part of the arrangements—

45.2.b.i

the local authority’s terms as to payment for the childcare,

45.2.b.ii

the mandatory termination provision (see regulation  46 ), and

45.2.b.iii

any requirements the local authority seeks to impose (see regulation  47 ).

45.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply if the provider is any of the following—

45.3.a

a childcare provider the local authority has grounds to believe would not be
able to satisfy a requirement the authority would impose if arrangements were
made;

45.3.b

a childminder registered with an early years childminder agency that—

45.3.b.i

fails in its most recent inspection report (if any) to achieve a grade of
“effective” or better, or

45.3.b.ii

notifies the local authority that, in the agency’s reasonable opinion, the
childminder has ceased to provide childcare of satisfactory quality;

45.3.c

a childcare provider (other than a childminder registered with   an early
years childminder agency ) that fails in its most recent inspection report (if
any) to achieve Grade 3 (“requires improvement”) or better for the overall
effectiveness of its childcare.

45.4

Paragraph (2)(b) does not apply if the provider is the governing body of a
maintained school .

##### Arrangements to provide for termination

46

An English local authority must, as part of arrangements with a childcare
provider under regulation  45(2) , include provision authorising the local
authority to terminate the arrangements if the provider—

46.a

ceases to be a childcare provider (see regulation  6 ), or

46.b

becomes a childcare provider mentioned in regulation  45(3)(b)  or  (c)
(which relates to minimum standard of childcare).

##### Requirements permissible in arrangements

47

47.1

As part of any arrangements with a childcare provider under regulation  45(2)
, an English local authority may impose on the provider one or more of only
the following requirements—

47.1.a

a requirement to enable the local authority to—

47.1.a.i

comply with its duty to make arrangements with a childcare provider chosen by
the parent of a child (see regulation  45 ), and

47.1.a.ii

terminate the arrangements (see regulation  46 );

47.1.b

a requirement for the purpose of satisfying one or more of the following
objectives—

47.1.b.i

that the childcare is provided free of charge;

47.1.b.ii

that the childcare is provided in a pattern to suit the needs of the parents
of the children for whom the childcare is provided;

47.1.b.iii

that any financial assistance provided by a local authority under the
arrangements is used properly and in accordance with the arrangements;

47.1.c

a requirement for the purpose of meeting the needs of a child—

47.1.c.i

to whom the local authority owes a duty under regulation  45 , and

47.1.c.ii

who has a disability or special educational needs;

47.1.d

a requirement that the provider actively promotes the fundamental British
values of —

47.1.d.i

democracy,

47.1.d.ii

individual liberty,

47.1.d.iii

mutual respect and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs, and

47.1.d.iv

the rule of law;

47.1.e

a requirement that views or theories contrary to established scientific or
historical evidence and explanations are not promoted as evidence-based views
or theories;

47.1.f

a requirement that, if the childcare provider (being other than a childminder
registered with   an early years childminder agency ) achieves in its most
recent inspection report (if any) the minimum grade mentioned in regulation
45(3)(c)  or worse, the provider takes the measures specified in the report—

47.1.f.i

to improve the overall effectiveness of its childcare, and

47.1.f.ii

which may include the participation in any training or other quality
improvement programme specified in the report;

47.1.g

a requirement necessary for the effective administration of the arrangements.

47.2

In this regulation—

“ disability ” has the meaning given in section 6 of the Equality Act 2010 ; “
special educational needs ” has the meaning given in section 20 of the
Children and Families Act 2014 .

##### Requirements prohibited in arrangements

48

An English local authority must not, as part of arrangements with a childcare
provider under regulation  45(2) , impose on the provider any of the
following—

48.a

a requirement that the provider attend a training or other quality improvement
programme other than that specified in an inspection report;

48.b

a requirement subjecting the provider to a quality assessment process
conducted by the local authority relating to—

48.b.i

in the case of a childminder registered with an early years childminder
agency, the quality of the agency’s services, or

48.b.ii

in the case of any other childcare provider, the quality of the provider’s
childcare.

#### Guidance in discharging of functions

##### Duty of English local authority to have regard to guidance

49

An English local authority must, when discharging its duties under these
Regulations, have regard to any guidance given from time to time by the
Secretary of State.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Education       Claire
Coutinho   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Education
8th November 2022             We consent.       Nigel Huddleston   Amanda
Solloway   Two of the Commissioners of His Majesty’s Treasury     7th November
2022

  Consequential amendments and revocations

Regulation 3

##### Consequential amendments

###### Amendment of the Childcare Act 2006 (Provision of Information to Parents) (England) Regulations 2007

1

1.1

The Childcare Act 2006 (Provision of Information to Parents) (England)
Regulations 2007  are amended in accordance with paragraph  (2) .

1.2

In regulation 1(2)—

1.2.a

in the definition of “the extended entitlement”, for “regulation 33 of the
Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement)
Regulations 2016” substitute  “regulation  44  of the Childcare (Free of
Charge for Working Parents) (England) Regulations 2022 ” ;

1.2.b

in the definition of “free early years provision”, in paragraph (b), for
“regulation 33 of the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016” substitute  “regulation  44  of the
Childcare (Free of Charge for Working Parents) (England) Regulations 2022” .

###### Amendment of the First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal (Chambers) Order 2010

2

2.1

The First-tier Tribunal and Upper Tribunal (Chambers) Order 2010  is amended
in accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

In Article 6(eb), for “the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016” substitute  “the Childcare (Free of
Charge for Working Parents) (England) Regulations 2022” .

###### Amendment of the Childcare Payments Regulations 2015

3

3.1

The Childcare Payments Regulations 2015  are amended on accordance with sub-
paragraph (2).

3.2

In regulation 5(1)(d), for “regulation 15 of the Childcare (Early Years
Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016” substitute
“regulation  25  of the Childcare (Free of Charge for Working Parents)
(England) Regulations 2022” .

###### Amendment of the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016

4

4.1

The Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement)
Regulations 2016  are amended in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (5)

4.2

In the title to the instrument, for “Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of
Charge) (Extended Entitlement)” substitute  “Childcare Act 2016 (Consequential
Amendments)” .

4.3

In regulation 1(1), for “Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement)” substitute  “Childcare Act 2016 (Consequential
Amendments)” .

4.4

In regulation 1(2), for “1, 2, 3” substitute  “1” ;

4.5

Omit—

4.5.a

regulation 1(3) (which relates to the commencement of Part 4);

4.5.b

regulation 2 (interpretation);

4.5.c

Part 2 (a qualifying child of working parents);

4.5.d

Part 3 (information, reviews, appeals and penalties);

4.5.e

Part 4 (local authorities’ duty to secure early years provision).

###### Amendment of the Childcare (Disqualification) and Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement) (Amendment) Regulations 2018

5

5.1

The Childcare (Disqualification) and Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of
Charge) (Extended Entitlement) (Amendment) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

5.2

Omit Part 3 (amendment of the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016).

###### Amendment of the Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to Subordinate Legislation) Regulations 2020

6

6.1

The Parental Bereavement Leave and Pay (Consequential Amendments to
Subordinate Legislation) Regulations 2020  are amended in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2).

6.2

Omit regulation 40 (Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended
Entitlement) Regulations 2016).

###### Amendment of the Tax Credits, Childcare Payments and Childcare (Extended Entitlement) (Coronavirus and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2020

7

7.1

The Tax Credits, Childcare Payments and Childcare (Extended Entitlement)
(Coronavirus and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2020  are amended in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2).

7.2

Omit regulation 5 (Amendment of the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of
Charge) (Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016).

###### Amendment of the Criminal Justice Act 2003 (Commencement No. 33) and Sentencing Act 2020 (Commencement No. 2) Regulations 2022

8

8.1

The Criminal Justice Act 2003 (Commencement No. 33) and Sentencing Act 2020
(Commencement No. 2) Regulations 2022  are amended in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2).

8.2

In the Schedule, in Part 2, in the table, in Column 1, omit the words
“Regulation 19(5) of the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1257 )”.

##### Revocations

###### Revocations

9

The enactments cited in the table are revoked.

      Title Number   The Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) (Amendment) Regulations 2017 S.I. 2017/1160 The
Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement)
(Coronavirus) (Amendment) Regulations 2020 S.I. 2020/712 The Childcare (Early
Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement) (Amendment) Regulations
2021 S.I. 2021/674 The Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge)
(Extended Entitlement) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2021 S.I. 2021/1168

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of these Regulations)

  These Regulations secure that childcare is available free of charge for
qualifying children of working parents.

  These Regulations replace the Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of
Charge) (Extended Entitlement) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/1257 ).

  Part 3 provides for determinations as to whether a child is eligible for
childcare under section 1 of the Childcare Act  2016 (c. 5)  (“ the Act ”). In
summary:         regulations  13  to  18  specify matters for the purposes of
section 1(2)(c) and (d) of the Act (which relate to the definition of
“qualifying child of working parents”);           regulations  19  to  21
provide for the making of declarations under section 1(2)(e) of the Act (to
the effect that a child is a qualifying child of working parents);
regulations  22  to  24  provide for the making of determinations as to
whether a child is a qualifying child of working parents;
regulations  25  and  26  set out the period for which a declaration in
respect of a child determined to be a qualifying child of working parents has
effect;           regulation  27  sets out the period for which a child (in
respect of whom a declaration has effect) is eligible for childcare under
section 1 of the Act.           regulations  28  and  29  provide for the
disclosure of information.

  Part 4 sets out offences and penalties. In summary:         regulation  30
makes it an offence to share unlawfully any personal information disclosed
under regulation  28  or  29 ;           regulations  31  to  33  establish
penalties for certain conduct connected with determinations as to whether a
child is eligible for childcare under section 1 of the Act;
regulations  34  and  35  provide for the assessment and enforcement of
penalties.

  Part 5 provides for reviews and appeals. In summary:         regulations  36
to  38  provide for the review of, and the procedure to review, certain
decisions made by the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;
regulation  39  provides for appeals to the First-tier Tribunal against
decisions reviewed under regulations  36  to  38 ;           regulations  40
to  42  sets out the decisions the First-tier Tribunal may make in appeals.
regulation  43  provides that the Commissioners for His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs and an appellant may settle an appeal by agreement before it is
finally disposed.

  Part 6 sets out the duties of English local authorities. In summary:
regulation  44  requires an English local authority to secure that childcare
is made available free of charge for qualifying children of working parents in
their area;           regulations  45  to  48  require, and provide for, an
English local authority to make arrangements with a childcare provider the
parent of a child chooses to provide any childcare the local authority must
secure for their child;           regulation  49  requires an English local
authority, when discharging its duties under these Regulations, to have regard
to any guidance given by the Secretary of State.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary, or public sector is
foreseen.

  An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside this instrument at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

  Table of corresponding provisions

  The following table sets out where the regulatory provisions of the
Childcare (Early Years Provision Free of Charge) (Extended Entitlement)
Regulations 2016 (“ the 2016 Regulations ”) may be found in these Regulations.
Origin in the 2016 Regulations Destination in these Regulations   Regulation
3(1) Regulations  13  and 20(a)  Regulation 3(2) and (3) Regulation  9
Regulations 4 and 4A Regulations  14  and 15  Regulation 5(1) and (1A)
Regulations  16  and 17(1) and (2)  Regulation 5(2) Regulation 7(1)(c)
Regulations 5(3) to (6) and 6 Regulation  18   Regulation 7 Regulation
17(3)(b)  and (4)  Regulations 8 and 9 Regulations  16(3)  and  17(3)(a)
Regulation 10 Regulation  10   Regulation 11 Regulation 19(2) Regulation 12
Regulation  11   Regulations 13 and 14 Regulation  21   Regulations 15 and 16
Regulations  25  to  27   Regulation 17 Regulation  22   Regulation 17A
Regulation  24   Regulation 18(1) to (3) Regulation  28   Regulation 18(4) to
(6) Regulation  29   Regulation 19 Regulation  30   Regulation 20 Regulation
22(2)(c)   Regulations 21 and 29 Regulations  36  and  38   Regulations 22 and
30 Regulation  37   Regulations 23 and 31 Regulation  39   Regulation 24
Regulation  41   Regulation 25 Regulation  33   Regulation 26 Regulation  32
Regulation 27 Regulation  31   Regulation 28 Regulation  34   Regulation 32
Regulation  42   Regulations 33 and 35 Regulation  44   Regulation 34
Regulation  6(1)(a)   Regulation 36 Regulation  45   Regulation 37 Regulation
46   Regulation 38(1) Regulation  47   Regulation 38(2) Regulation  48
Regulation 39 Regulation  49

