Title: The Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provision) (Chief Executives) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-06-08
Description: These Regulations make amendments which are consequential on section 54 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (“the 2021 Act”). Section 54 requires principal councils (county councils and county borough councils) to appoint a chief executive. This requirement replaces the requirement on principal councils to designate one of their officers as head of their paid service under section 4 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (“the 1989 Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/355

## The Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provision) (Chief Executives) Regulations 2022

    Local Government, Wales

  Made   22 March 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   25 March 2022

  Coming into force   5 May 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
power conferred on them by section 173(1) of the Local Government and
Elections (Wales) Act 2021  and section 8(4) of the Local Government and
Housing Act 1989 .

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Local Government and Elections (Wales)
Act 2021 (Consequential Amendments and Transitional Provision) (Chief
Executives) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 5 May 2022.

### The Local Authorities (Contracts) Regulations 1997

2

2.1

The Local Authorities (Contracts) Regulations 1997  are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 7(3) (signature of certificates – authorities with a chief
finance officer), after “1989 Act” insert  “other than a county council or
county borough council in Wales,” .

2.3

After regulation 7(3), insert—

2.3.4

A county council or county borough council in Wales which is under a duty to
appoint a chief executive under section 54 of the Local Government and
Elections (Wales) Act 2021 must ensure that a certificate issued by it is
signed by one of the following officers of the council—

2.3.4.a

one of the statutory chief officers within the meaning given to that
expression in section 2(6) of the 1989 Act;

2.3.4.b

a non-statutory chief officer within the meaning given to that expression in
section 2(7) of the 1989 Act; or

2.3.4.c

a deputy chief officer within the meaning given to that expression in section
2(8) of the 1989 Act.

### The Local Authorities (Standing Orders) (Wales) Regulations 2006

3

3.1

The Local Authorities (Standing Orders) (Wales) Regulations 2006  are amended
as follows.

3.2

In regulation 2  (interpretation)—

3.2.a

in the definition of “chief officer”, for paragraph (a) substitute—

3.2.a.a

its chief executive;

;

3.2.b

omit the definition of “head of the authority’s paid service”;

3.2.c

in the appropriate place, insert—

    “ chief executive ” (“ prif weithredwr ”) means the person appointed as
chief executive under section 54 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales)
Act 2021;

.

3.3

In regulation 7(2)(a)  (standing orders relating to staff), for “head of the
authority’s paid service” substitute  “authority’s chief executive” .

3.4

In regulation 8(1)  (standing orders in respect of disciplinary action), for
“head of the authority’s paid service” substitute  “authority’s chief
executive” .

3.5

For regulation 9(1A)(a)  (investigation of alleged misconduct) substitute—

3.5.a

the authority’s chief executive;

.

3.6

In Part 1 of Schedule 3  (authority with mayor and cabinet executive)—

3.6.a

in paragraph 2, for the words from “the officer designated” to the end,
substitute  “the person appointed as the authority’s chief executive or by an
officer nominated by the authority’s chief executive” ;

3.6.b

for paragraph 3(1)(a) substitute—

3.6.b.a

the person appointed as the authority’s chief executive;

;

3.6.c

in paragraph 4(1), for “an officer designated as the head of the authority’s
paid service” substitute  “a person appointed as the authority’s chief
executive” .

3.7

In Part 2 of Schedule 3  (authority with leader and cabinet executive)—

3.7.a

in paragraph 2, for the words from “the officer designated” to the end,
substitute  “the person appointed as the authority’s chief executive or by an
officer nominated by the authority’s chief executive” ;

3.7.b

for paragraph 3(1)(a) substitute—

3.7.b.a

the person appointed as the authority’s chief executive;

;

3.7.c

in paragraph 4(1), for “an officer designated as the head of the authority’s
paid service” substitute  “a person appointed as the authority’s chief
executive” .

3.8

In Schedule 4  (provisions to be incorporated in standing orders in respect of
disciplinary action)—

3.8.a

in paragraph 1, for “ head of the authority’s paid service ” (“ pennaeth
gwasanaeth taledig yr awdurdod ”) substitute ““ chief executive ” (“ prif
weithredwr ”)”;

3.8.b

in paragraph 2(1), for “the head of the authority’s paid service” substitute
“the authority’s chief executive” .

### The Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Functions and Responsibilities) (Wales) Regulations 2007

4

4.1

Paragraph 12 of Part I (miscellaneous functions) of the table in Schedule 1
(functions not to be the responsibility of an authority’s executive) to the
Local Authorities (Executive Arrangements) (Functions and Responsibilities)
(Wales) Regulations 2007  is amended as follows.

4.2

For the entry in column 1, substitute  “Duty to appoint a chief executive, and
to provide staff, etc.”

4.3

For the entry in column 2, substitute  “Section 54(1) and (6) of the Local
Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021.”

### The Local Authorities (Model Code of Conduct) (Wales) Order 2008

5

In the Local Authorities (Model Code of Conduct) (Wales) Order 2008 , in
paragraph 8(a)(i) of Part 1 of the Schedule (the model code of conduct), at
the end insert  “for authorities other than county councils and county borough
councils, and the authority’s chief executive if the authority is a county
council or county borough council” .

### The Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Detection of Fraud and Enforcement) (Wales) Regulations 2013

6

In the Council Tax Reduction Schemes (Detection of Fraud and Enforcement)
(Wales) Regulations 2013 , for regulation 3(5)(a) (authorisations by billing
authorities) substitute—

6.a

the chief executive appointed under section 54 of the Local Government and
Elections (Wales) Act 2021; or

.

### The Accounts and Audit (Wales) Regulations 2014

7

7.1

In the Accounts and Audit (Wales) Regulations 2014 , regulation 9(8)
(declaration of remuneration) is amended as follows.

7.2

In the definition of “chief executive”—

7.2.a

in paragraph (a), omit the words “county council or county borough council,”;

7.2.b

after sub-paragraph (a) insert—

7.2.b.aa

in the case of a relevant body which is a county council or county borough
council, the chief executive appointed under section 54 of the 2021 Act;

.

7.3

in the definition of “senior employee”, for paragraph (a)(i) substitute—

7.3.i

in the case of a relevant body other than a county council or county borough
council, has been designated as head of paid service under section 4 of that
Act, and in the case of a county council or county borough council, has been
appointed as chief executive under section 54 of the 2021 Act;

.

### The Prevention of Social Housing Fraud (Detection of Fraud) (Wales) Regulations 2014

8

In the Prevention of Social Housing Fraud (Detection of Fraud) (Wales)
Regulations 2014 , for regulation 3(5)(a) (authorisation by local authorities)
substitute—

8.a

the officer appointed as chief executive under section 54 of the Local
Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021; or

.

### Transitional provision relating to current officers designated as heads of paid service

9

9.1

The officer designated as the head of the county council or county borough
council’s paid service immediately before 5 May 2022 is to be treated as the
chief executive appointed under section 54 of the Local Government and
Elections (Wales) Act 2021.

9.2

The officer designated as the head of the county council or county borough
council’s paid service immediately before 5 May 2022 is not subject to the
appointment process under paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the
Local Authorities (Standing Orders) (Wales) Regulations 2006 for the purposes
of paragraph (1).

### Revocation

10

Regulation 11 (transitional and consequential provisions) of the Local
Authorities (Standing Orders) (Wales) Regulations 2006 is revoked.

      Rebecca Evans   Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the
Welsh Ministers   22 March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make amendments which are consequential on section 54 of the
Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (“ the 2021 Act ”). Section 54
requires principal councils (county councils and county borough councils) to
appoint a chief executive. This requirement replaces the requirement on
principal councils to designate one of their officers as head of their paid
service under section 4 of the Local Government and Housing Act 1989 (“ the
1989 Act ”).

Regulation 9(1) is a transitional provision, which provides that the officer
that is designated as the head of the authority’s paid service under section 4
of the 1989 Act immediately before 5 May 2022 is to be treated as the chief
executive under section 54 of the 2021 Act. Regulation 9(2) provides that the
appointment regime as set out in paragraphs 1 and 2 of Part 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Local Authorities (Standing Orders) (Wales) Regulations 2006 does not
apply to heads of paid service treated as chief executives under regulation
9(1).

Regulation 10 revokes regulation 11 of the Local Authorities (Standing Orders)
(Wales) Regulations 2006.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, it
was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to
the likely costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations.

