Title: The East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order grants development consent for, and authorises East Anglia ONE North Limited to construct, operate and maintain a generating station located in the North Sea approximately  38.4km from the port of Lowestoft and 37.9km from Lowestoft  together with all necessary and associated development. For the purposes of the development that it authorises East Anglia ONE North Limited is authorised by the Order compulsorily or by agreement to purchase land and rights in land to use land, as well as to override easements and other rights. The Order also provides a defence in proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance and to discharge water. The Order imposes requirements in connection with the development for which it grants development consent.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/432

## The East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   31st March 2022

  Coming into force   22nd April 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008 (“ the 2008 Act ”)  for an order granting development
consent.     The application was examined by the Examining Authority appointed
by the Secretary of State pursuant to sections 61  and 65  of Part 6 of the
2008 Act and carried out in accordance with Chapter 4 of that Act and with the
Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 . The Examining
Authority, has submitted a report to the Secretary of State under section
74(2) of the 2008 Act.     The Secretary of State has considered the report
and recommendation of the Examining Authority, has taken into account the
environmental information in accordance with regulation 4 of the
Infrastructure Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017
and, as a national policy statement has effect in relation to the proposed
development, has had regard to the documents and matters referred to in
section 104(2) of the 2008 Act.     The Secretary of State, having decided the
application, has determined to make an order giving effect to the proposals
comprised in the application on terms that in the opinion of the Secretary of
State are not materially different from those proposed in the application.
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114,
115, 120, 140 and 149A of the 2008 Act, makes the following Order:

### Preliminary

#### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order
2022.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 22nd April 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1989 Act ” means the Electricity Act 1989 ; “ the 1990 Act ”
means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications
Act 2003 ; “ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means
the Planning Act 2008; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine and Coastal Access
Act 2009 ; “ the 2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ; “ access to works plan ” means the plan certified
as the access to works plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ activity exclusion
zones plan ” means the plan certified as the activity exclusion zones plan by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ AIS ” means air insulated switchgear; “
ancillary works ” means— the ancillary works described in Part 2 of Schedule 1
(ancillary works); and any other works authorised by this Order, to the extent
that such works are not development within the meaning of section 32 of the
2008 Act; “ authorised development ” means the development described in Part 1
of Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development authorised by
this Order that is development within the meaning of section 32 of the 2008
Act; “ authorised project ” means the authorised development and the ancillary
works; “ best practice protocol for minimising disturbance to red-throated
diver ” means the document certified as the best practice protocol for
minimising disturbance to red-throated diver by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
book of reference ” means the document certified as the book of reference by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ building ” includes any structure or erection
or any part of a building, structure or erection; “ buoy ” means any floating
device used for navigational purposes or measurement purposes, including LiDAR
buoys, wave buoys and guard buoys; “cable” in respect of any onshore cable
includes direct lay cables, cables laid in cable ducts or protective covers
and in respect of any cable whether onshore or offshore includes fibre optic
cables either within the cable or laid alongside; “ cable crossings ” means
the crossing of existing sub-sea cables or pipelines or other existing
infrastructure by the inter-array, platform link or export cables authorised
by this Order together with physical protection measures including cable
protection; “ cable ducts ” means conduits for the installation of cables; “
cable protection ” means measures to protect cables from physical damage and
including, but not limited to, the use of bagged solutions filled with grout
or other materials, protective aprons or coverings, mattresses, flow energy
dissipation devices or rock and gravel burial; “ cable sealing end compound ”
means a compound containing electrical equipment (including sealing ends, post
insulators and earth switches), access, fencing and other associated
equipment, structures or buildings; “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in
the 1980 Act ; “ commence ” means— in relation to works seaward of MHWS, the
first carrying out of any licensed marine activities authorised by the deemed
marine licences, save for operations consisting of offshore preparation works
or pre–construction monitoring surveys approved under the deemed marine
licences; and in respect of any other works comprised in the authorised
project, the first carrying out of any material operation (as defined in
section 155 of the 2008 Act) forming part of the authorised project other than
onshore preparation works; and the words “commencement” and “ commenced ” must
be construed accordingly; “ construction consolidation site ” means a
construction site associated with the onshore works including hard standings,
lay down and storage areas for construction materials and equipment, areas for
spoil, access roads, areas for vehicular parking, bunded storage areas, areas
for welfare facilities including offices and canteen and washroom facilities,
wheel washing facilities, workshop facilities and temporary fencing or other
means of enclosure and areas for other facilities required for construction
purposes; “ construction, operation and maintenance platform ” means an
offshore structure housing or incorporating temporary accommodation, landing
ports for vessels and helicopters, standby electricity generation equipment,
marking and lighting and other equipment facilities to assist in the co-
ordination of marine activities related to the authorised development; “
deemed marine licences ” means the marine licences set out in Schedules 13
(deemed licence under the 2009 Act – generation assets) and 14 (deemed licence
under the 2009 Act – offshore transmission assets); “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands,
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ distributed temperature
sensing cable ” means a fibre optic cable which identifies faults in the
electrical cables during operation allowing the approximate location of any
fault to be identified; “ East Anglia TWO Order ” means the East Anglia TWO
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “ EIA Regulations ” means the Infrastructure
Planning (Environmental Impact Assessment) Regulations 2017; “ electrical
cable ” means an assembly of one or more conductors running side by side or
bundled, which is used to carry electrical power; “ environmental statement ”
means the document certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary
of State under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ fibre optic cable
” means a cable consisting of one or more thin flexible fibres with a glass
core through which signals are sent in the form of light; “ GIS ” means gas
insulated switchgear; “ gravity base foundation ” means a structure
principally of steel, concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on the
seabed either due to its own weight with or without added ballast or
additional skirts and associated equipment including scour protection,
J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platforms and equipment; “
grid connection works ” means Work Nos. 34 and 38 to 43 and any related
associated development; “ highway ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act ;
“ highway authority ” has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act ; “ Historic
England ” means the Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England;
“horizontal directional drilling” is a trenchless technique for installing
cables and cable ducts involving drilling in an arc between two points; “
horizontal directional drilling compound ” means a construction site
associated with the transmission works where horizontal directional drilling
is proposed including hard standings, lay down and storage areas for
construction materials and equipment, areas for spoil, areas for vehicular
parking, bunded storage areas, areas for welfare facilities including offices
and canteen and washroom facilities, wheel washing facilities, workshop
facilities and temporary fencing or other means of enclosure and areas for
other facilities required for construction purposes; “ HVAC ” means high
voltage alternating current; “ important hedgerows and tree preservation order
plan ” means the document certified as the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ in principle
monitoring plan ” means the document certified as the in principle monitoring
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article
36  (certification of plans etc.); “ in principle East Anglia ONE North
Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan ” means the document
certified as the in principle East Anglia ONE North Project Southern North Sea
SAC Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ inter-array cable ”
means the cables linking the wind turbine generators to each other and to the
offshore electrical platforms and described in paragraph (c) of Work No. 1; “
intertidal area ” means the area between MHWS and MLWS; “ intrusive ” means an
activity that requires or is facilitated by breaking the surface of the ground
or seabed (but does not include the installation of fence or signage posts); “
jacket foundation ” means a steel jacket/lattice-type structure constructed of
steel which is fixed to the seabed at three or more points with steel pin
piles or steel suction buckets and associated equipment including scour
protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and
equipment; “ jointing bay ” means an excavation formed to enable the jointing
of high voltage power cables; “ jointing works ” means a process by which two
or more cables are connected to each other by means of cable joints within a
jointing bay; “ land plans ” means the plans certified as the land plans
(onshore) and land plans (offshore) by the Secretary of State for the purposes
of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ LAT ” means
lowest astronomical tide; “ layout principles statement ” means the document
certified as the layout principles statement by the Secretary of State under
article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ licensed marine activities ”
means the activities specified in Part 1 of the deemed Marine Licences; “
limits of deviation ” means the limits for the scheduled works as shown on the
works plans; “ local highway authority ” has the same meaning as in section
329(1) of the 1980 Act ; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair,
adjust, and alter and further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but
only in relation to any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1
(ancillary works) and any component part of any wind turbine generator,
offshore electrical platform, construction, operation and maintenance platform
or meteorological mast described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) not including the alteration, removal or replacement of
foundations), to the extent assessed in the environmental statement; and
“maintenance” must be construed accordingly; “mean high water springs” or “
MHWS ” means the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a
period of time; “mean low water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the average height
of all low waters above Chart Datum; “ meteorological mast ” means an offshore
mast housing equipment to measure wind speed and other wind characteristics,
including a topside housing electrical, communication and associated equipment
and marking and lighting; “ MMO ” means the Marine Management Organisation; “
monopile foundation ” means a steel pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or
drilled into the seabed and associated equipment including scour protection,
J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “
national grid substation ” means a compound containing electrical equipment
(including power transformers, gantries, switchgear, reactive compensation
equipment, electrical protection equipment devices (disconnectors, circuit
breakers), harmonic filters, cables and back-up generators), control
buildings, lightning protection masts, communications masts, access, fencing
and other associated equipment, structures or buildings; “ offshore electrical
platform ” means a platform with one or more decks, whether open or fully
clad, accommodating electrical power transformers, low, medium and/or high
voltage switch gear, instrumentation, protection and control systems, neutral
earthing resistors, reactive compensation, standby electrical generation
equipment, fuelling facilities, surface water drainage system, auxiliary and
uninterruptible power supply systems and transformers, accommodation,
emergency shelter, craneage, metering stations, meteorological equipment,
helicopter landing facilities, messing facilities, potable water storage,
black water separation equipment, control hub, drainage facilities, access
equipment, J-tubes, marking and lighting and other associated equipment and
facilities to enable the transmission of electronic communications and for
electricity to be collected at, and exported from, the platform; “ offshore
ornithology without prejudice compensation measures ” means the document
certified as the offshore ornithology without prejudice compensation measures
by the Secretary of State under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
offshore platforms ” means the construction, operation and maintenance
platform and the offshore electrical platforms; “ offshore preparation works ”
means surveys, monitoring and UXO clearance activities seaward of MHWS
undertaken prior to the commencement of construction to prepare for
construction; “ offshore works ” means Work Nos. 1 to 5 and, to the extent
that it comprises works that are seaward of MHWS, Work No. 6; “ onshore
preparation works ” means operations consisting of site clearance, demolition
work, early planting of landscaping works, archaeological investigations,
environmental surveys, ecological mitigation, investigations for the purpose
of assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of any contamination
or other adverse ground conditions, diversion and laying of services, erection
of temporary means of enclosure, creation of site accesses, footpath creation,
erection of welfare facilities and the temporary display of site notices or
advertisements; “ onshore substation ” means a compound containing electrical
equipment (including power transformers, gantries, switchgear, reactive
compensation equipment, electrical protection equipment devices
(disconnectors, circuit breakers), harmonic filters, cables and back-up
generators), control buildings, lightning protection masts, communications
masts, access, fencing and other associated equipment, structures or
buildings; “ onshore works ” means the transmission works and the grid
connection works; “ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which
is within the limits of land to be acquired or used and described in the book
of reference; “ Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plans
within which the authorised project may be carried out; “ Order limits
boundary coordinates plan (offshore) ” means the document certified as the
Order limits boundary coordinates plan (offshore) by the Secretary of State
under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ outline access management
plan ” means the document certified as the outline access management plan by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline code of construction practice ” means
the document certified as the outline code of construction practice by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline construction traffic management plan
” means the document certified as the outline construction traffic management
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article
36  (certification of plans etc.); “ outline fisheries liaison and coexistence
plan ” means the document certified as the outline fisheries liaison and
coexistence plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ outline landfall
construction method statement ” means the document certified as the outline
landfall construction method statement by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
outline landscape and ecological management strategy ” means the document
certified as the outline landscape and ecological management strategy by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline navigation monitoring strategy ”
means the document certified as the outline navigation monitoring strategy by
the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline offshore operations and maintenance
plan ” means the document certified as the outline offshore operations and
maintenance plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ outline operational
drainage management plan ” means the document certified as the outline
operational drainage management plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
outline port construction traffic management and travel plan ” means the
document certified as the outline port construction traffic management and
travel plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under
article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ outline pre-commencement
archaeology execution plan ” means the document certified as the outline pre-
commencement archaeology execution plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
outline public rights of way strategy ” means the document certified as the
outline public rights of way strategy by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.);
“outline  Sabellaria  reef management plan” means the document certified as
the outline  Sabellaria  reef management plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
outline Sizewell Gap construction method statement ” means the document
certified as the outline Sizewell Gap construction method statement by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline SPA crossing method statement ” means
the document certified as the outline SPA crossing method statement by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline travel plan ” means the document
certified as the outline travel plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
outline watercourse crossing method statement ” means the document certified
as the outline watercourse crossing method statement by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans
etc.); “ outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) ” means the
document certified as the outline written scheme of investigation (offshore)
by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.); “ outline written scheme of investigation
(onshore archaeology) ” means the document certified as the outline written
scheme of investigation (onshore archaeology) by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “
owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; “ permanent stopping up of public rights of way
plan ” means the plan certified as the permanent stopping up of public rights
of way plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under
article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ pin piles ” means steel
cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to secure steel jacket
foundations; “ platform link cables ” means the cables linking offshore
platforms to one another and described in Work No. 4; “ relevant highway
authority ” means the highway authority for the area in which the land to
which the relevant provision of this Order applies is situated; “ relevant
lead local flood authority ” means the lead local flood authority for the area
in which the land to which the relevant provision of this Order applies is
situated; “ relevant local highway authority ” means the local highway
authority for the area in which the land to which the relevant provision of
this Order applies is situated; “ relevant planning authority ” means the
district planning authority for the area in which the land to which the
relevant provision of this Order applies is situated; “ requirements ” means
those matters set out in Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements) to this Order; “
SAC ” means special area of conservation; “ scheduled works ” means the
numbered works specified in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development) to
this Order, or any part of them; “Sizewell C order limits interaction –
offshore plan” means the plan certified as the Sizewell C order limits
interaction – offshore plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ SPA ” means special
protection area; “ stage ” means a section or part of the authorised
development as identified as a stage in a written scheme approved under
requirement 11 (stages of authorised development onshore); “ statutory nature
conservation body ” means the appropriate nature conservation body as defined
in regulation 5 of the 2017 Regulations; “ statutory undertaker ” means any
person falling within section 127(8) of the 2008 Act and a public
communications provider as defined in section 151 of the 2003 Act; “ street ”
means a street within the meaning of section 48 of the 1991 Act , together
with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways, and includes
part of a street; “ street authority ”, in relation to a street, has the same
meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act ; “ substations design principles
statement ” means the document certified as the substations design principles
statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under
article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ suction caisson ” means large
diameter steel cylindrical shells which penetrate the seabed assisted by a
hydrostatic pressure differential for securing steel jacket foundations; “
suction caisson foundation ” means a tubular steel structure which penetrates
the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential and associated
equipment, including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems
and access platform(s) and equipment; “ temporary stopping up of public rights
of way plan ” means the plan certified as the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article  36  (certification of plans etc.); “ transition bay ” means an
underground pit where the offshore export cables are jointed to the onshore
cables; “ transmission works ” means Work Nos. 6 to 37 and any related
associated development; “ trenchless technique ” means a method of
installation that allows ducts and cables to be installed under an obstruction
without breaking open the ground and digging a trench (examples of such
techniques include horizontal directional drilling, thrust boring, auger
boring and pipe ramming); “ trenchless technique compound ” means a
construction site associated with the transmission works where a trenchless
technique is proposed including hard standings, lay down and storage areas for
construction materials and equipment, areas for spoil, areas for vehicular
parking, bunded storage areas, areas for welfare facilities including offices
and canteen and washroom facilities, wheel washing facilities, workshop
facilities and temporary fencing or other means of enclosure and areas for
other facilities required for construction purposes; “ tribunal ” means the
Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal; “ Trinity House ” means the Corporation
of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “ undertaker ” means East Anglia ONE
North Limited (company number 11121800); “ vessel ” means every description of
vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a
personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil
vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing
constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is
at the time in, on or over water; “ watercourse ” includes all rivers,
streams, creeks, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices,
sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer or drain;
“ wind turbine generator ” means a structure comprising a tower, rotor with
three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical and other
equipment which may include J-tube(s), transition piece, access and rest
platforms, access ladders, boat access systems, corrosion protection systems,
fenders and maintenance equipment, helicopter landing facilities and other
associated equipment, fixed to a foundation; and “ works plans ” means the
plans certified as the works plans (onshore) and works plans (offshore) by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  36
(certification of plans etc.).

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or restrain or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in
the air-space above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition
of restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over the
land which interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the
benefit of land which is acquired under this Order or which is an interest
otherwise comprised in the Order land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate, save in respect of the parameters referred to in—

2.3.a

requirements 2 to 9 in Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements);

2.3.b

conditions 1 to 9 in Part 2 of Schedule 13 (conditions); and

2.3.c

conditions 1 to 5 in Part 2 of Schedule 14 (conditions).

2.4

Any reference in this Order to a work identified by the number of the work is
to be construed as a reference to the work of that number authorised by this
Order.

2.5

Unless otherwise stated, references in this Order to points identified by
letters are to be construed as references to the points so lettered on the
works plans.

2.6

The expression “ includes ” is to be construed without limitation unless the
contrary intention appears.

### Principal Powers

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

3

3.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order and to the requirements the undertaker
is granted—

3.1.a

development consent for the authorised development; and

3.1.b

consent for the ancillary works,

to be carried out within the Order limits.

3.2

Each of the scheduled works must be constructed and maintained within the
limits of deviation for that work.

#### Power to maintain authorised project

4

4.1

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised project, except to the
extent that this Order or an agreement made under this Order provides
otherwise.

4.2

The power to maintain conferred under paragraph  (1)  does not relieve the
undertaker of any requirement to obtain any further licence under Part 4 of
the 2009 Act (marine licensing) for offshore works not covered by the deemed
marine licences.

#### Benefit of the Order

5

5.1

Subject to this article the provisions of this Order have effect solely for
the benefit of the undertaker.

5.2

Subject to paragraph  (4) , the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

5.2.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee;

5.2.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed,

except where paragraph (8) applies, in which case no consent of the Secretary
of State is required.

5.3

Subject to paragraph (4), the undertaker may with the written consent of the
Secretary of State—

5.3.a

where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(a), transfer
to the transferee the whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such
related statutory rights as may be agreed between the undertaker and the
transferee; or

5.3.b

where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (2)(b), grant to
the lessee, for the duration of the period mentioned in paragraph (2)(b), the
whole of any of the deemed marine licences and such related statutory rights
as may be so agreed,

except where paragraph (8) applies, in which case no consent of the Secretary
of State is required.

5.4

The Secretary of State must consult the MMO before giving consent to the
transfer or grant to another person of any or all of the benefit of the
provisions of any of the deemed marine licences.

5.5

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with   paragraphs (2) or (3)
references in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph  (6) ,  (7)
or  (9) , include references to the transferee or lessee.

5.6

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under   under paragraph (2)   are subject to the
same restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order
if those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

5.7

Where an agreement has been made   in accordance with paragraph (2) or (3) —

5.7.a

the benefit (“the transferred benefit”) includes any rights that are
conferred, and any obligations that are imposed by virtue of the provisions to
which the benefit relates;

5.7.b

the transferred benefit resides exclusively with the transferee or, as the
case may be, the lessee and the transferred benefit is not enforceable against
the undertaker save in the case of a deemed marine licence transferred or
granted in respect of any breach of an obligation by the undertaker which
occurs prior to such transfer or grant or which occurs as a result of any
activity carried out by the undertaker on behalf of the transferee.

5.8

This paragraph applies where—

5.8.a

the transferee or lessee is a person who holds a licence under the 1989 Act;
or

5.8.b

the time limits for claims for compensation in respect of the acquisition of
land or effects upon land under this Order have elapsed and—

5.8.b.i

no such claims have been made,

5.8.b.ii

any such claim has been made and has been compromised or withdrawn,

5.8.b.iii

compensation has been paid in final settlement of any such claim,

5.8.b.iv

payment of compensation into court has taken place in lieu of settlement of
any such claim; or

5.8.b.v

it has been determined by a tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction in
respect of any such claim that no compensation is payable.

5.9

The provisions of article  8  (street works), article  12  (temporary stopping
up of streets), article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land), article  20
(compulsory acquisition of rights), article  26  (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised project) and article  27  (temporary use of land
for maintaining the authorised project) have effect only for the benefit of
the named undertaker and a person who is a transferee or lessee and is also—

5.9.a

in respect of Work Nos. 6 to 43 a person who holds a licence under the 1989
Act; or

5.9.b

in respect of functions under article  8  (street works) relating to a street,
a street authority.

5.10

Prior to any transfer or grant under this article taking effect the undertaker
must provide written notification to the Secretary of State and, if such
transfer or grant relates to the exercise of powers in their area, to the MMO
and the relevant planning authority.

5.11

A notice required under paragraph (10) must—

5.11.a

state—

5.11.a.i

the name and contact details of the person to whom the benefit of the
provisions will be transferred or granted;

5.11.a.ii

subject to paragraph (12), the date on which the transfer will take effect;

5.11.a.iii

the provisions to be transferred or granted;

5.11.a.iv

the restrictions, liabilities and obligations that, in accordance with
paragraph (6), will apply to the person exercising the powers transferred or
granted; and

5.11.a.v

where paragraph (8) does not apply, confirmation of the availability and
adequacy of funds for compensation associated with the compulsory acquisition
of the Order land.

5.11.b

be accompanied by—

5.11.b.i

where relevant, a plan showing the works or areas to which the transfer or
grant relates; and

5.11.b.ii

a copy of the document effecting the transfer or grant signed by the
undertaker and the person to whom the benefit of the powers will be
transferred or granted.

5.12

The date specified under paragraph (11)(a)(ii) must not be earlier than the
expiry of 14 days from the date of the receipt of the notice.

5.13

The notice given under paragraph (11) must be signed by the undertaker and the
person to whom the benefit of the powers will be transferred or granted as
specified in that notice.

5.14

Section 72(7) and (8) of the 2009 Act do not apply to a transfer or grant of
the benefit of the provisions of any of the deemed marine licences to another
person by the undertaker pursuant to an agreement under this article.

#### Application and modification of legislative provisions

6

6.1

Regulation 6 of the Hedgerows Regulations 1997  is modified so as to read for
the purposes of this Order only as if there were inserted after paragraph
(1)(j)—

or

6.1.k

for carrying out development that has been authorised by an order granting
development consent pursuant to the Planning Act 2008.

.

6.2

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles  26  (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised project) and  27  (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised project) of this Order do not apply in relation to
the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised project.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

7

7.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) of the Environmental
Protection Act 1990  (summary proceedings by person aggrieved by statutory
nuisance) in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section
79(1) of that Act (noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to
health or a nuisance)  no order may be made, and no fine may be imposed, under
section 82(2) of that Act if—

7.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

7.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised project and
that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
project in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of noise
on construction sites) or a consent given under section 61 (prior consent for
work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ; or

7.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised project
and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

7.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

7.1.b.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the use of the authorised project and that the nuisance is
attributable to the use of the authorised project which is being used in
compliance with requirement  27  (control of noise during operational phase);
or

7.1.b.ii

is a consequence of the use of the authorised project and that it cannot
reasonably be avoided.

7.2

Section 61(9) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the
consent relates to the use of premises by the undertaker for purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised project.

### Streets

#### Street works

8

8.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project, enter on so
much of any of the streets specified in Schedule 2 (streets subject to street
works) as is within the Order limits and may—

8.1.a

break up or open the street or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

8.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

8.1.c

place apparatus under the street;

8.1.d

maintain apparatus under the street or change its position; and

8.1.e

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d).

8.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

8.3

In this article “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works
in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act .

#### Application of the 1991 Act

9

9.1

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (2) that apply in
relation to the carrying out of street works under that Act and any
regulations made or code of practice issued or approved under those provisions
apply (with all necessary modifications) in relation to—

9.1.a

the carrying out of works under article  8  (street works); and

9.1.b

the temporary stopping up, temporary alteration or temporary diversion of a
street by the undertaker under article  12  (temporary stopping up of streets)

whether or not the carrying out of the works or the stopping up, alteration or
diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

9.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act  are—

9.2.a

subject to paragraph (3), section 55 (notice of starting date of works);

9.2.b

section 57 (notice of emergency works);

9.2.c

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

9.2.d

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

9.2.e

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

9.2.f

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);

9.2.g

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

9.2.h

all provisions of that Act that apply for the purposes of the provisions
referred to in   sub-paragraphs   (a) to (g).

9.3

Section 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (2) has effect as if
references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works included a reference
to a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a
case of emergency.

#### Public rights of way

10

10.1

With effect from the date of certification by the local highway authority that
the relevant alternative right of way has been created to the standard defined
in the public rights of way strategy, the section of the public right of way
(being a footpath) specified in columns (1), (2) and (3) of Schedule 4
(footpaths to be stopped up) is extinguished.

10.2

With effect from that same date, the alternative section of the footpath
specified in column (4) of Schedule 4 (footpaths to be stopped up) or as
otherwise approved by the relevant local highway authority is created.

10.3

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act .

#### Temporary stopping up of public rights of way

11

11.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project, temporarily stop up each of the public rights of way specified in
column (2) of Schedule 3 (public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up)
to the extent specified in column (3), by reference to the letters shown on
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan.

11.2

The public rights of way specified in Schedule 3 (public rights of way to be
temporarily stopped up) shall not be temporarily stopped up under this article
unless the alternative public right of way described in column (4) of Schedule
3 or as otherwise approved by the relevant local highway authority, is first
provided by the undertaker to the standard defined in the public rights of way
strategy, to the reasonable satisfaction of the relevant local highway
authority.

11.3

The relevant diversion route provided under paragraph (2) shall be
subsequently maintained by the undertaker until the re-opening of the relevant
public right of way specified in paragraph (1).

11.4

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

#### Temporary stopping up of streets

12

12.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
project, may temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any
reasonable time—

12.1.a

divert the traffic or a class of traffic from the street; and

12.1.b

subject to paragraph  (3) , prevent all persons from passing along the street.

12.2

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any street temporarily
stopped up under the powers conferred by this article within the Order limits
as a temporary working site.

12.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration
or diversion of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no
such access.

12.4

Without limiting paragraph (1), the undertaker may temporarily stop up, alter
or divert the streets set out in column (2) of Schedule 5 (streets to be
temporarily stopped up) to the extent specified, by reference to the letters
and numbers shown on the works plans, in column (3) of that Schedule.

12.5

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or use as a
temporary working site—

12.5.a

any street referred to in paragraph (4) without first consulting the street
authority;

12.5.b

any street referred to in Schedule 3 (public rights of way to be temporarily
stopped up) without first consulting the local highway authority; and

12.5.c

any other street without the consent of the street authority, which may attach
reasonable conditions to the consent.

12.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

12.7

If a street authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (5)(c) that
street authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Access to works

13

13.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project—

13.1.a

form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the
locations specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 6 (access to works);
and

13.1.b

with the approval of the relevant highway authority after consultation with
the relevant planning authority, form and lay out such other means of access
or improve existing means of access, at such locations within the Order limits
as the undertaker reasonably requires for the purposes of the authorised
project.

13.2

If the relevant highway authority fails to notify the undertaker of its
decision within 28 days of receiving an application for approval under
paragraph (1)(b) that relevant highway authority is deemed to have granted
approval.

#### Agreements with street authorities

14

14.1

A street authority and the undertaker may enter into agreements with respect
to—

14.1.a

any temporary stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street authorised by
this Order;

14.1.b

the construction of any new street authorised by this Order; or

14.1.c

the carrying out in the street of any of the works referred to in article
8(1)  (street works).

14.2

Such an agreement may, without prejudice to the generality of paragraph (1)—

14.2.a

make provision for the street authority to carry out any function under this
Order which relates to the street in question;

14.2.b

include an agreement between the undertaker and street authority specifying a
reasonable time for the completion of the works; and

14.2.c

contain such terms as to payment and otherwise as the parties consider
appropriate.

#### Highway alterations

15

15.1

The undertaker may carry out highway alterations comprised within Work Nos.
35, 36 and 37 in the plots numbered 148 to 182 on the land plans.

15.2

The highway alterations must be carried out in accordance with plans approved
by the highway authority, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.

15.3

If the highway authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving plans for approval under paragraph (2), the highway
authority is deemed to have given approval.

### Supplemental powers

#### Discharge of water

16

16.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) below the undertaker may use any watercourse
or any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised project and for that purpose may
lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

16.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph (1) is determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 of the Water Industry Act 1991  (right to
communicate with public sewers).

16.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

16.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

16.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

16.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

16.5

The undertaker must not, in carrying out or maintaining works pursuant to this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of, or construct any works
in, under, over or within eight metres of, any watercourse forming part of a
main river, or within 16 metres of a tidally influenced main river without the
prior written consent of the Environment Agency.

16.6

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

16.7

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12(1)(b) of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales)
Regulations 2016 .

16.8

In this article—

16.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board or a local
authority; and

16.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 have the same
meaning as in those Regulations.

16.9

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify the undertaker of a decision within 28 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraphs (3) or (5) or approval under paragraph (4)(a)
that person is deemed to have granted consent or given approval, as the case
may be.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land onshore

17

17.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised project
and—

17.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

17.1.b

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in
such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the
nature of the surface layer, subsoil and groundwater and remove soil and
groundwater samples;

17.1.c

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), make trial trenches
in such positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to carry out
archaeological and site investigations;

17.1.d

without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological
or archaeological investigations or environmental monitoring on such land; and

17.1.e

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus and welfare facilities
for use in connection with the survey and investigation of land, environmental
monitoring and making of trial holes and trial trenches.

17.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

17.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

17.3.a

must, if so required on entering the land, produce written evidence of their
authority to do so; and

17.3.b

may take with them such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry out
the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

17.4

No trial holes may be made under this article—

17.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

17.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

17.5

Following completion of any survey, monitoring or investigation works the
undertaker must remove all equipment, apparatus and welfare facilities placed
on the land in connection with such survey, monitoring or investigations.

17.6

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the authority conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under
Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

17.7

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

17.7.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

17.7.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority;

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

### Powers of acquisition

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

18

18.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised project or to facilitate, or is incidental to, it.

18.2

This article is subject to paragraph (2) of article  20  (compulsory
acquisition of rights) and article  26  (temporary use of land for carrying
out the authorised project).

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

19

19.1

After the end of the period of seven years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

19.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (which makes provision for
compulsory purchase under the Acquisition of Land Act 1981) of the 1965 Act;
and

19.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act  as applied by article  22  (application of the 1981 Act).

19.2

The authority conferred by article  26  (temporary use of land for carrying
out the authorised project) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land was
entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights

20

20.1

Subject to paragraph (2) the undertaker may acquire compulsorily such rights
or impose restrictive covenants over the Order land as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under article  18  (compulsory
acquisition of land), by creating them as well as by acquiring rights already
in existence.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, article 21 (private rights) and
article 28 (statutory undertakers), in the case of the Order land specified in
column (1) of Schedule 7 (land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired),
the undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition are limited to the
acquisition of such new rights and the imposition of restrictive covenants for
the purpose specified in relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule.

20.3

Subject to section 8 (other provisions as to divided land) of, and Schedule 2A
(counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat) to the 1965
Act, as substituted by paragraph 9 of Schedule 8 (modification of compensation
and compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition
of new restrictions), where the undertaker creates a right or acquires an
existing right over land or imposes a restrictive covenant under paragraph
(1), the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that
land.

20.4

Schedule 8 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of restrictive covenants.

20.5

In any case where the acquisition of new rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is required for the purpose of
diverting, replacing or protecting apparatus of a statutory undertaker, the
undertaker may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, transfer the power
to acquire such rights to the statutory undertaker in question.

20.6

The exercise by a statutory undertaker of any power in accordance with a
transfer under paragraph (5) is subject to the same restrictions, liabilities
and obligations as would apply under this Order if that power were exercised
by the undertaker.

#### Private rights

21

21.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to compulsory acquisition under article  18
(compulsory acquisition of land) cease to have effect in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the powers under
article  18 —

21.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

21.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry) ,

whichever is the earlier.

21.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the
imposition of restrictive covenants under article  20  (compulsory acquisition
of rights) cease to have effect in so far as their continuance would be
inconsistent with the exercise of the right or compliance with the restrictive
covenant—

21.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker (whether the right is acquired
compulsorily, by agreement or through the grant of lease of the land by
agreement); or

21.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act (power of entry) in pursuance of the right,

whichever is the earlier.

21.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights or restrictive
covenants over land of which the undertaker takes temporary possession under
this Order are suspended and unenforceable, in so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the purpose for which temporary possession is
taken, for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession of the land.

21.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right or restrictive covenant under this article is entitled to compensation
in accordance with the terms of section 152 of the 2008 Act to be determined,
in case of dispute, under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

21.5

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138 of
the 2008 Act (extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory
undertakers etc.) or article  28  (statutory undertakers) applies.

21.6

Paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect subject to—

21.6.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

21.6.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of rights or
the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

21.6.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of the land,

21.6.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto the land, or

21.6.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of the land,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; or

21.6.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

21.7

If an agreement referred to in paragraph (6)(b)—

21.7.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

21.7.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

the agreement is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title,
whether the title was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

21.8

Reference in this article to private rights over land includes reference to
any trusts or incidents to which the land is subject.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

22

22.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

22.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

22.3

In section 1 (application of act), for subsection (2), substitute—

22.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

22.4

Section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration) is omitted.

22.5

Section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) is omitted.

22.6

In section 5B (extension of time limit during challenge)—

22.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the 2008
Act (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting development
consent)” ; and

22.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 5A” substitute  “the seven
year period mentioned in article  19  (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2022” .

22.7

In section 6 (notices after execution of declaration), in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

22.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit the
words “(as modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

22.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

22.9.2

But see article 24(1) (acquisition of subsoil and airspace only) of the East
Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022, which excludes the acquisition
of subsoil or airspace from this Schedule.

.

22.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act must be construed as references to
that Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 23 (application of
Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965

23

23.1

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act of 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

23.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)—

23.2.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order)” substitute  “section 118 of the 2008
Act (legal challenges relating to applications for orders granting development
consent)” ; and

23.2.b

for “the three year period mentioned in section 4” substitute  “the seven year
period mentioned in article  19  (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2022” .

23.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

23.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

23.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

23.4

In section 22(2) (interests omitted from purchase), for “section 4 of this
Act” substitute  “article  19  (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm
Order 2022” .

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of, or the airspace over, the land referred to in article  18
(compulsory acquisition of land) or article  20  (compulsory acquisition of
rights) as may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired
under that provision instead of acquiring the whole, or an interest in the
whole, of the land.

24.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over, land under paragraph (1), the undertaker is not required to
acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

24.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

24.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act as modified by Schedule 8 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of
new restrictions);

24.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

24.3.c

Section 153(4A) (reference of objection to Upper Tribunal: general) of the
1990 Act.

24.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply where the undertaker acquires a cellar,
vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

25

25.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of or air-
space over any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised project and may use the subsoil or air-space for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised project.

25.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

25.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

25.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

25.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

25.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land
appropriated under paragraph (1) without the undertaker acquiring any part of
that person’s interest in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1
(determination of   questions of disputed compensation  ) of the 1961 Act.

25.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is an
undertaker to whom section 85 of the 1991 Act (sharing cost of necessary
measures) applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs are to
be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project

26

26.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
project—

26.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

26.1.a.i

the land specified in column (2) of Schedule 9 (land of which temporary
possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (3) of that Schedule; and

26.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

26.1.b

remove any buildings, agricultural plant and apparatus, drainage, fences,
debris and vegetation from that land;

26.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access), haul
roads, security fencing, bridges, structures and buildings on that land;

26.1.d

use the land for the purposes of a working site with access to the working
site in connection with the authorised project; and

26.1.e

construct any works, or use the land, as specified in relation to that land in
column 3 of Schedule 9 (land of which temporary possession may be taken), or
any mitigation works or operations.

26.2

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of or
using land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended
entry on the owners and occupiers of the land.

26.3

The undertaker must not remain in possession of any land under this article
for longer than reasonably necessary and in any event must not, without the
agreement of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under
this article—

26.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph 1(a)(i) after the end of the period
of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 9 (land of which temporary possession may be taken); or

26.3.b

in the case of land specified in paragraph 1(a)(ii) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised project for which temporary possession of the land was taken,

unless the undertaker has, before the end of that period, served a notice of
entry under section 11 of the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4
of the 1981 Act in relation to that land.

26.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

26.4.a

replace a building removed under this article; or

26.4.b

restore land on which any works have been constructed under paragraph (1)(e).

26.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of any
power conferred by this article.

26.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

26.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

26.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph (1)(a)(i) except that the undertaker is not precluded from—

26.8.a

acquiring new rights or imposing restrictive covenants over any part of that
land under article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights) to the extent that
such land is listed in column (1) of Schedule 7 (land in which only new rights
etc. may be acquired); or

26.8.b

acquiring any part of the subsoil (or rights in the subsoil) of that land
under article  24  (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only).

26.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of or uses land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

26.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining authorised project

27

27.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised project, the undertaker may—

27.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits if
such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised project; and

27.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

27.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

27.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

27.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

27.3

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

27.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised project for which possession of the land was taken.

27.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

27.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

27.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, must be determined under Part 1 of
the 1961 Act.

27.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 of the 2008 Act (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the maintenance of the authorised project, other than loss or damage for
which compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

27.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

27.10

Section 13 of the 1965 Act (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 of the 2008 Act (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions).

27.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised project, means—

27.11.a

the period of five years beginning with the date on which the authorised
project first exports electricity to the national electricity transmission
network except where the authorised development consists of the maintenance of
any tree or shrub for which a 10 year replacement period is specified pursuant
to requirement 15 (implementation and maintenance of landscaping), in which
case “ the maintenance period ” means a period of 10 years beginning with the
date on which that tree or shrub is first planted; and

27.11.b

any period falling between the date at which temporary possession is no longer
permitted under article  26(3)  and the date on which the authorised project
first exports electricity to the national electricity transmission network.

#### Statutory undertakers

28

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 10 (protective provisions) the
undertaker may—

28.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, the land belonging to statutory undertakers shown on the land plans
within the Order land and described in the book of reference; and

28.b

extinguish the rights of, remove, relocate the rights of or reposition the
apparatus belonging to statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

29

29.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article  28  (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

29.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article  28 , any person who is—

29.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

29.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

29.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act applies.

29.4

In this paragraph—

“ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section 151(1)
of the 2003 Act; and “ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water,
electricity   or   sewerage undertaker.

### Operations

#### Operation of generating station

30

30.1

The undertaker is hereby authorised to operate the generating station
comprised in the authorised project.

30.2

This article does not relieve the undertaker of any requirement to obtain any
permit or licence under any other legislation that may be required from time
to time to authorise the operation of an electricity generating station.

#### Deemed marine licences under the 2009 Act

31

The marine licences set out in Schedules 13 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act
– generation assets) and 14 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act – offshore
transmission assets) are deemed to have been granted to the undertaker under
Part 4 (marine licensing) of the 2009 Act for the licensed marine activities
set out in Part 1, and subject to the conditions set out in Part 2, of each
licence.

### Miscellaneous and general

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

32

32.1

This article applies to—

32.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised project or the right to operate the same; and

32.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised project, or any
part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

32.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants may prejudice the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

32.3

Accordingly, no such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the
rights and obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any
such agreement so as to—

32.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

32.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

32.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

33

Development consent granted by this Order is treated as specific planning
permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) of the 1990 Act (cases in
which land is to be treated as not being operational land).

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

34

34.1

Subject to article  35  (trees subject to tree preservation orders), the
undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging the Order
limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to
do so to prevent the tree or shrub from obstructing or interfering with the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised project or any
apparatus used in connection with the authorised project.

34.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

34.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

34.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised project—

34.4.a

subject to paragraph (2) above, remove any hedgerows within the Order limits
that may be required for the purposes of carrying out the authorised project;
and

34.4.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Schedule 11 (hedgerows).

34.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerows Regulations 1997.

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

35

35.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule 12 (trees
subject to tree preservation orders) or any tree within or overhanging land
within the Order limits that is subject to a tree preservation order made
after 25 June 2019, or cut back its roots if it reasonably believes it to be
necessary in order to do so to prevent the tree—

35.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised project or any apparatus used in connection with
the authorised project; or

35.1.b

from constituting an unacceptable source of danger (whether to children or to
other persons).

35.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

35.2.a

the undertaker must not cause unnecessary damage to any tree and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

35.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) of the 1990 Act (replacement of trees)
does not apply.

35.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

35.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, must be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

#### Certification of plans etc.

36

36.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit to the Secretary of State copies of the documents listed in Schedule 17
(documents to be certified) for certification that they are true copies of the
documents referred to in this Order.

36.2

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

36.3

Where a plan or document certified under paragraph (1)—

36.3.a

refers to a provision of this Order (including any specified requirement) when
it was in draft form; and

36.3.b

identifies that provision by a number, or combination of numbers and letters,
which is different from the number, or combination of numbers and letters by
which the corresponding provision of this Order is identified in the Order as
made

the reference in the plan or document concerned must be construed for the
purposes of this Order as referring to the provision (if any) corresponding to
that provision in the Order as made.

#### Arbitration

37

37.1

Subject to article 40 (saving provision for Trinity House), any dispute or
difference arising out of or in connection with any provision of this Order,
unless otherwise provided for, must be referred to and settled in arbitration
in accordance with the rules at Schedule 15 (arbitration rules) to this Order
by a single arbitrator to be agreed between the parties, within 14 days of
receipt of the notice of arbitration, or if the parties fail to agree within
the time period stipulated, to be appointed on the application of either party
(after giving notice in writing to the other) by the Secretary of State.

37.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of the Secretary of State or the
Marine Management Organisation is required under any provision of this Order
shall not be subject to arbitration.

#### Requirements, appeals, etc.

38

Schedule 16 (procedure for discharge of requirements) has effect in relation
to all consents, agreements or approvals required or contemplated by the
requirements within Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements) to this Order.

#### Abatement of works abandoned or decayed

39

Where Work No. 1(a), Work No. 1(b), Work No. 2 or Work No. 3 or any part of
those works is abandoned or allowed to fall into decay the Secretary of State
may, following consultation with the undertaker, issue a written notice
requiring the undertaker at its own expense to repair and restore or remove
Work No. 1(a), Work No. 1(b), Work No. 2 or Work No. 3 or any relevant part of
those works, without prejudice to any notice served under section 105(2) of
the 2004 Act . The notice may also require the restoration of the site of the
relevant part(s) of Work No. 1(a), Work No. 1(b), Work No. 2 or Work No. 3 to
a safe and proper condition within an area and to such an extent as may be
specified in the notice.

#### Saving provisions for Trinity House

40

Nothing in this Order prejudices or derogates from any of the rights, duties
or privileges of Trinity House.

#### Crown rights

41

41.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker or any lessee or licensee to take, use,
enter upon or in any manner interfere with any land or rights of any
description (including any portion of the shore or bed of the sea or any
river, channel, creek, bay or estuary)—

41.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

41.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

41.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

41.2

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Protective provisions

42

Schedule 10 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Funding

43

43.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by the provisions
referred to in paragraph (2) in relation to any land unless it has first put
in place either—

43.1.a

a guarantee in respect of the liabilities of the undertaker to pay
compensation under this Order in respect of the exercise of the relevant power
in relation to that land; or

43.1.b

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

43.2

The provisions are—

43.2.a

article  18  (compulsory acquisition of land);

43.2.b

article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights);

43.2.c

article  21  (private rights);

43.2.d

article  24  (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only);

43.2.e

article  25  (rights under or over streets);

43.2.f

article  26  (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised project);

43.2.g

article  27  (temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised project);
and

43.2.h

article  28  (statutory undertakers).

43.3

A guarantee or alternative form of security given in respect of any liability
of the undertaker to pay compensation under this Order is enforceable against
the guarantor or person providing the alternative form of security by any
person to whom such compensation is payable and must be in such a form as to
be capable of enforcement by such a person.

43.4

Nothing in this article requires a guarantee or alternative form of security
to be in place for more than 15 years after the date on which the relevant
power is exercised.

#### Offshore ornithology compensation provisions

44

Schedule 18 (offshore ornithology compensation measures) has effect.

#### Service of notices

45

45.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

45.1.a

by post;

45.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

45.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

45.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

45.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to services by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

45.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

45.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

45.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

45.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

45.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

45.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement will be taken to be fulfilled only where—

45.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

45.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

45.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

45.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

45.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender will provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

45.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

45.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

45.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

45.8.b

such revocation will be final and will take effect on a date specified by the
person in the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date
on which the notice is given.

45.9

This article will not be taken to exclude the employment of any method of
service not expressly provided for by it.

45.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy     Gareth Leigh   Head of Energy Infrastructure Planning
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy

Authorised project

Article 2

##### Authorised development

1

A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14 and
15 of the 2008 Act which is located in the North Sea approximately 31
kilometres from the Suffolk coast, comprising—

######## Work No. 1

1.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with a gross electrical output
capacity of over 100 MW comprising up to 67 wind turbine generators each fixed
to the seabed by one of five foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on
suction caissons, jacket on piles, suction caisson or gravity base), fitted
with rotating blades and situated within the area shown on the works plans and
further comprising (b) to (c) below;

1.b

up to one meteorological mast fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the
works plans by one of five foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on
suction caissons, jacket on piles, suction caisson or gravity base); and

1.c

a network of subsea inter-array cables within the area shown on the works
plans between the wind turbine generators and between the wind turbine
generators and Work No. 3 including one or more cable crossings,

and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) (development
for which development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act comprising—

Work No. 2  — up to one construction, operation and maintenance platform fixed
to the seabed within the area shown on the works plans by one of four
foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles
or gravity base);

Work No. 3  — up to four offshore electrical platforms fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plans by one of four foundation types
(namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles or gravity
base);

Work No. 4  — a network of subsea platform link cables within the area shown
on the works plans between the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work
No. 3 and between the construction, operation and maintenance platform
comprising Work No. 2 and the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work
No. 3 for the transmission of electricity and electronic communications
including one or more cable crossings;

Work No. 5  — up to two subsea export cables between Work No. 3 and Work No. 6
within the area shown on the works plans including one or more cable
crossings;

Work No. 6  — landfall connection works consisting of up to two export cables
and up to two separate fibre optic cables laid underground within two cable
ducts between Work No. 5 and Work No. 8 within the area shown on the works
plans;

Work No. 7  — temporary construction consolidation sites and construction
access;

Work No. 8  — the onshore transmission works at the landfall consisting of—

1.a

up to two transition bays;

1.b

up to two export cables and up to two separate fibre optic cables laid
underground within two cable ducts from Work No. 6 to the transition bays;

1.c

up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and up to two
distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts laid
underground from the transition bays to Work No. 9;

1.d

a temporary horizontal directional drilling compound;

1.e

temporary construction consolidation sites;

1.f

construction of a haul road; and

1.g

access;

Work No. 9  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and up
to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts laid
underground from Work No. 8 to Work No. 11 including construction of a haul
road and access.

Work No. 10  — formation of a new access from Sizewell Gap including
vegetation clearance to the south of Sizewell Gap;

Work No. 11  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 9 to Work No. 12 together with a temporary
trenchless technique compound, temporary construction consolidation sites,
construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 12  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 11 to Work No. 13 including construction of a
haul road and access.

Work No. 12A  — temporary ecological mitigation works in accordance with the
ecological management plan and associated access.

Work No. 13  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 12 to Work No. 16 together with a temporary
trenchless technique compound, construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 14  — temporary ecological mitigation works in accordance with the
ecological management plan and associated access.

Work No. 15  — formation of a new access at Sizewell Gap including vegetation
clearance and construction of an access track to Work No. 13.

Work No. 16  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 13 to Work No. 17 together with temporary
construction consolidation sites, construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 17  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 16 to Work No. 18 and crossing Thorpe Road
(B1353) together with the construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 18  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 17 to Work No. 19 together with temporary
construction consolidation sites, construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 19  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 18 to Work No. 20 and crossing Aldeburgh Road
(B1122) together with the construction of a haul road and access and the
formation of a new access at Aldeburgh Road including vegetation clearance.

Work No. 20  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 19 to Work No. 21 together with the
construction of a haul road and access and the formation of a new access at
Aldeburgh Road including vegetation clearance.

Work No. 21  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 20 to Work No. 22 together with the
construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 22  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 21 to Work No. 23 together with temporary
construction consolidation sites, construction of a haul road and access.

Work No. 23  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 22 to Work No. 26 together with the
construction of a haul road and access and the formation of a new access at
Snape Road (B1069) and a lay down area to the east of Snape Road.

Work No. 24  — permanent ecological mitigation works in accordance with the
ecological management plan and associated access.

Work No. 25  — construction of bridleway to the west of Snape Road (B1069)
connecting to the existing bridleway to the north including drainage works and
fencing.

Work No. 26  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 23 to Work No. 31 and crossing Snape Road
(B1069) together with the construction of a haul road and access and the
formation of a new access at Snape Road (B1069).

Work No. 27  — temporary construction consolidation sites and construction
access;

Work No. 28  — ecological mitigation works in accordance with the ecological
management plan and associated access.

Work No. 29  — permanent ecological mitigation works in accordance with the
ecological management plan and associated access.

Work No. 30  — a new onshore substation at Grove Wood, Friston.

Work No. 31  — up to six electrical cables, up to two fibre optic cables and
up to two distributed temperature sensing cables and up to ten cable ducts
laid underground from Work No. 26 to Work No. 30 together with temporary
construction consolidation sites, construction of a haul road, access and
extension of permanent access comprised within Work No. 34.

Work No. 32  — a connection consisting of up to six electrical cables, up to
two fibre optic cables and up to two distributed temperature sensing cables
and up to ten cable ducts laid underground from Work No. 30 to Work No. 41
including a connection above ground and electrical engineering works within
the national grid substation comprised within Work No. 41;

Work No. 33  — landscaping works including bunding and planting together with
drainage works, sustainable drainage system ponds, surface water management
systems, formation of footpaths and access.

Work No. 34  — formation of a new permanent access road from the B1121 north
of Kiln Lane to the onshore substation and national grid substation including
vegetation clearance on the eastern side of the road. Highway modifications
and traffic management measures.

Work No. 35  — highway alterations to the junctions between the A1094 and the
B1121 and the A1094 and the B1069 including widening of the highway and
vegetation clearance.

Work No. 36  — highway alterations to the junction between the A12 and the
A1094 including widening of the highway and vegetation clearance.

Work No. 37  — highway alterations comprising reinforcement of bridge together
with temporary construction works area and formation of access from the A12,

and in connection with Work Nos. 1 to 6 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised project and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement
including—

1.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

1.b

cable protection measures such as rock placement and the placement of concrete
mattresses and frond mattresses;

1.c

dredging;

1.d

the removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work
Nos. 1 to 6 and the disposal of inert material of natural origin and dredged
material within the Order limits produced during construction drilling and
seabed preparation for the installation of the foundations of the offshore
structures or during seabed preparation for cable laying;

and in connection with such Work Nos. 6 to 37 and to the extent that they do
not otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised project and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement,
including—

1.a

haul roads, ramps, and other vehicular and pedestrian means of access,
including creation of new tracks and footpaths, and widening, upgrades,
alterations and improvements of existing roads, tracks and footpaths;

1.b

bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping and boundary treatments;

1.c

habitat creation;

1.d

spoil storage and associated control measures;

1.e

jointing bays, link boxes, cable protection, joint protection, manholes,
marker posts, tiles and tape, lighting and other works associated with laying
cables and pulling cables through cable ducts;

1.f

water supply works, foul drainage provision, surface water management systems,
temporary drainage during installations of cables and culverting;

1.g

works to alter the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains and
cables;

1.h

works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable
rivers, streams or watercourses;

1.i

landscaping and other works to mitigate adverse effects of the construction,
maintenance or operation of the authorised project;

1.j

works for the benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised
project;

1.k

working sites in connection with the construction of the authorised project,
construction lay down areas and compounds and storage compounds;

1.l

works of restoration; and

1.m

fencing or other means of enclosure.

2

A nationally significant infrastructure project as defined in sections 14 and
16 (electric lines) of the 2008 Act comprising—

Work No. 38  — up to three cable sealing end compounds, one of which may
include circuit breakers, comprising an electrical compound with electrical
equipment and overhead line gantries to allow the connection of Work No. 41 to
the overhead lines comprised within Work No. 39 together with cables
connecting the national grid substation to the cable sealing ends, extension
of the permanent access comprised within Work No. 34 and works to the overhead
line pylons.

Work No. 39  — replacement, upgrade and realignment works to the overhead line
pylons in the vicinity of Work No. 38 together with up to one new additional
overhead line pylon to the north west of the national grid substation
comprised within Work No. 41.

Work No. 40  — temporary realignment works to the overhead line pylons in the
vicinity of Work No. 38.

and associated development within the meaning of section 115(2) (development
for which development consent may be granted) of the 2008 Act comprising—

Work No. 41  — a new national grid substation to the north west of Work No. 30
at Grove Wood, Friston and extension of permanent access comprised within Work
No. 34.

Work No. 42  — temporary construction consolidation sites, access and
extension of permanent access comprised within Work No. 34.

Work No. 43  — temporary working areas for the purposes of constructing Work
Nos. 39 and 40 including access.

Work No. 34  — formation of a new permanent access road from the B1121 north
of Kiln Lane to the onshore substation and national grid substation including
vegetation clearance on the eastern side of the road, highway modifications
and traffic management measures.

and in connection with such Work No. 34 and Work Nos. 38 to 43 and to the
extent that they do not otherwise form part of any such work, further
associated development comprising such other works as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of or in connection with the relevant part of the
authorised project and which fall within the scope of the work assessed by the
environmental statement, including—

2.a

haul roads, ramps, and other vehicular and pedestrian means of access,
including creation of new tracks and footpaths, and widening, upgrades,
alterations and improvements of existing roads, tracks and footpaths;

2.b

bunds, embankments, swales, landscaping and boundary treatments;

2.c

habitat creation;

2.d

spoil storage and associated control measures;

2.e

jointing bays, link boxes, cable protection, joint protection, manholes,
marker posts, tiles and tape, lighting and other works associated with laying
cables and pulling cables through cable ducts;

2.f

water supply works, foul drainage provision, surface water management systems,
temporary drainage during installations of cables and culverting;

2.g

works to alter the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers, drains and
cables;

2.h

works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with, non-navigable
rivers, streams or watercourses;

2.i

landscaping and other works to mitigate adverse effects of the construction,
maintenance or operation of the authorised project;

2.j

works for the benefit or protection of land affected by the authorised
project;

2.k

working sites in connection with the construction of the authorised project,
construction lay down areas and compounds and storage compounds;

2.l

works of restoration; and

2.m

fencing or other means of enclosure.

3

The grid coordinates for that part of the authorised project which is seaward
of MHWS are specified below and more particularly shown on the Order limits
boundary coordinates plan (offshore)—

Point Latitude Longitude 1 52° 21 40.240N 02° 18 57.351E 2 52° 22 49.082N 02°
18 20.131E 3 52° 25 41.851N 02° 18 38.726E 4 52° 26 07.817N 02° 19 55.691E 5
52° 25 47.948N 02° 34 14.117E 6 52° 20 33.278N 02° 34 13.789E 7 52° 20 19.052N
02° 28 56.310E 8 52° 18 11.924N 02° 20 49.771E 9 52° 21 07.976N 02° 19 14.783E
10 52° 19 34.060N 02° 11 21.980E 11 52° 19 10.459N 02° 10 57.491E 12 52° 19
10.410N 02° 08 40.019E 13 52° 17 42.613N 02° 08 31.830E 14 52° 18 44.262N 02°
06 49.319E 15 52° 18 39.650N 01° 57 24.848E 16 52° 17 25.858N 01° 54 09.969E
17 52° 17 24.663N 01° 52 03.374E 18 52° 17 24.629N 01° 52 03.277E 19 52° 15
14.373N 01° 45 57.606E 20 52° 14 29.510N 01° 45 06.050E 21 52° 10 51.365N 01°
42 32.460E 22 52° 09 56.713N 01° 39 52.443E 23 52° 09 53.117N 01° 38 40.253E
24 52° 10 06.702N 01° 37 38.597E 25 52° 10 44.466N 01° 37 04.551E 26 52° 11
01.504N 01° 37 17.750E 27 52° 11 02.378N 01° 37 15.833E 28 52° 11 11.451N 01°
37 20.545E 29 52° 11 22.030N 01° 37 22.233E 30 52° 11 30.678N 01° 37 21.417E
31 52° 11 31.210N 01° 37 24.534E 32 52° 11 33.421N 01° 37 24.505E 33 52° 11
53.663N 01° 37 50.246E 34 52° 12 26.106N 01° 40 17.584E 35 52° 13 37.194N 01°
41 04.014E 36 52° 15 54.943N 01° 45 03.442E 37 52° 18 25.193N 01° 52 05.276E
38 52° 20 19.496N 01° 56 37.327E 39 52° 20 25.400N 02° 08 48.429E 40 52° 20
02.196N 02° 08 47.461E 41 52° 20 02.239N 02° 10 44.070E

4

Notwithstanding the grid coordinates specified at paragraph 3 and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary shown on the work plans referred to
in this Part, no part of Work No. 1(a) or Work No. 1(b) may be carried out if
it falls within 8 kilometres of the boundary of the Outer Thames Estuary
Special Protection Area.

##### Ancillary works

1

Works within the Order limits which have been subject to an environmental
impact assessment recorded in the environmental statement comprising—

1.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised development;

1.b

buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works; and

1.c

temporary works for the benefit or protection of land or structures affected
by the authorised development.

##### Requirements

###### Time limits

1

The authorised project must commence no later than the expiration of five
years beginning with the date this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed offshore design parameters

2

2.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), wind turbine generators forming part of the
authorised project must not—

2.1.a

exceed a height of 282 metres when measured from LAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

2.1.b

exceed a height of 175 metres to the height of the centreline of the generator
shaft forming part of the hub when measured from LAT;

2.1.c

exceed a rotor diameter of 250 metres;

2.1.d

be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in either
direction perpendicular to the approximate prevailing wind direction
(crosswind) or be less than 1,200 metres from the nearest wind turbine
generator in either direction which is in line with the approximate prevailing
wind direction (downwind); and

2.1.e

have an air clearance height of less than 24 metres from MHWS.

2.2

References to the location of a wind turbine generator in sub-paragraph (1)
above are references to the centre point of that turbine.

3

3.1

The total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised project must not exceed four.

3.2

The total number of construction, operation and maintenance platforms must not
exceed one.

3.3

The total number of meteorological masts must not exceed one.

3.4

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platform forming part of the
authorised project (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in length and 50
metres in width.

3.5

The dimensions of any construction, operation and maintenance platform forming
part of the authorised project (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes)
must not exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in
length and 50 metres in width.

3.6

The meteorological mast must not exceed a height of 175 metres above LAT.

4

4.1

The total length of the inter-array cables comprised within Work No. 1(c) must
not exceed 200 kilometres.

4.2

The total length of the platform link cables comprised within Work No. 4 must
not exceed 75 kilometres.

4.3

The total length of the export cables comprised within Work Nos. 5 and 6 must
not exceed 152 kilometres.

5

5.1

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each gravity base foundation must not
have a diameter at the level of the seabed which is more than 60 metres.

5.2

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each suction caisson foundation must
not have a diameter at the level of the seabed which is more than 35 metres.

5.3

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each jacket foundation must not have—

5.3.a

a pile diameter which is more than 4.6 metres in the case of pin piles or a
suction caisson diameter which is more than 16 metres;

5.3.b

more than four piles or more than four suction caissons; and

5.3.c

more than four legs.

5.4

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each monopile foundation must not
have a diameter which is more than 15 metres.

6

6.1

In relation to a meteorological mast, each gravity base foundation must not
have a footprint at the seabed which is more than 315 m 2 .

6.2

In relation to a meteorological mast, each suction caisson foundation must not
have a footprint at the seabed which is more than 177 m 2 .

6.3

In relation to a meteorological mast, each jacket foundation must not have a
footprint at the seabed which is more than 651 m 2 .

6.4

In relation to a meteorological mast, each monopile foundation must not have a
footprint at the seabed which is more than 51 m 2 .

7

7.1

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the gravity base foundations
must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 4,800 m 2 .

7.2

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the jacket foundations must
not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 5,676 m 2 .

7.3

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the monopile foundations
must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 177 m 2 .

8

8.1

In relation to a construction, operation and maintenance platform, the gravity
base foundations must not have a total footprint of more than 4,800 m 2 .

8.2

In relation to a construction, operation and maintenance platform, the jacket
foundations must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than
5,676 m 2 .

8.3

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
monopile foundation must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is
more than 177 m 2 .

9

The total amount of scour protection for the wind turbine generators,
construction, operation and maintenance platform, meteorological mast and
offshore electrical platform forming part of the authorised project must not
exceed 1,428,854 m 2 .

###### Offshore decommissioning

10

No offshore works may commence until a written decommissioning programme in
compliance with any notice served upon the undertaker by the Secretary of
State pursuant to section 105(2) of the 2004 Act  has been submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval.

###### Stages of authorised development onshore

11

11.1

The transmission works may not be commenced until a written scheme setting out
the stages of the transmission works has been submitted to, and approved by,
the relevant planning authority.

11.2

The grid connection works may not be commenced until a written scheme setting
out the stages of the grid connection works has been submitted to, and
approved by, the relevant planning authority.

11.3

Any amendments to the approved written schemes must be submitted to, and
approved by, the relevant planning authority.

11.4

The written schemes specified in sub-paragraphs (1) and (2) must be
implemented as approved. The approved details shall be taken to include any
amendments that may subsequently be approved in accordance with sub-paragraph
(3).

###### Detailed design parameters onshore

12

12.1

No stage of Work No. 30 may commence until details of the layout, scale and
external appearance of the onshore substation have been submitted to and
approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Suffolk
County Council. Work No. 30 must be carried out in accordance with the
approved details.

12.2

No stage of Work No. 30 may commence until written details of the
specification of plant, and any noise mitigation proposed in respect of Work
No. 30 together with updated modelling, have been submitted to and approved in
writing by the relevant planning authority in consultation with Suffolk County
Council. Work No. 30 must thereafter be implemented in accordance with the
approved details.

12.3

No stage of the national grid substation comprised within Work No. 41 may
commence until details of the layout, scale and external appearance of the
national grid substation have been submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with Suffolk County Council. Work No. 41
must be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

12.4

No stage of the cable sealing end compounds comprised within Work No. 38 may
commence until details of the layout, scale and external appearance of the
cable sealing end compounds have been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority in consultation with Suffolk County Council. Work
No. 38 must be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

12.5

Any details provided by the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraphs  (1) ,  (2)
, (3) and  (4)  must accord with the substations design principles statement
and be within the Order limits.

12.6

To the extent comprised within the onshore substation—

12.6.a

buildings must not exceed a height of 14 metres above finished ground level;

12.6.b

external electrical equipment, with the exception of lightning protection
masts, must not exceed a height of 14 metres above finished ground level;

12.6.c

lightning protection masts must not exceed a height of 20 metres above
finished ground level; and

12.6.d

the maximum number of lightning protection masts must not exceed six.

12.7

Buildings comprised within the national grid substation must not exceed—

12.7.a

where AIS substation arrangement is used, a height of 6 metres above finished
ground level; and

12.7.b

where GIS substation arrangement is used, a height of 16 metres above finished
ground level.

12.8

External electrical equipment comprised within the national grid substation
must not exceed a height of 16 metres above finished ground level.

12.9

To the extent comprised within the cable sealing end compounds comprised
within Work No. 38—

12.9.a

the overhead line gantries must not exceed a height of 16 metres above
finished ground level; and

12.9.b

electrical equipment (excluding the overhead line gantries) must not exceed a
height of 14.5 metres above finished ground level.

12.10

For the purposes of   sub-paragraphs    (6)  to  (9) , ‘finished ground level’
will be defined in accordance with the substations design principles statement
.

12.11

The maximum number of new additional overhead line pylons comprised within
Work No. 39 must not exceed one and the maximum number of permanently
relocated and/or reconstructed overhead line pylons comprised within Work No.
39 must not exceed three.

12.12

The maximum height of any additional, relocated or reconstructed overhead line
pylons must not exceed 59.2 metres.

12.13

The width of the new permanent access road comprised within Work No. 34 must
not exceed 7 metres.

12.14

The fenced compound area (excluding its accesses) for the onshore substation
must not exceed 32,300 m 2 .

12.15

The fenced compound area (excluding its accesses) for the national grid
substation must not exceed—

12.15.a

where AIS substation arrangement is used, 44,950 m 2 ; and

12.15.b

where GIS substation arrangement is used, 16,800 m 2 .

12.16

The fenced compound area (excluding its accesses) for the cable sealing end
compounds comprised within Work No. 38 must not exceed—

12.16.a

5,000m 2  where the cable sealing end compound includes circuit breakers; and

12.16.b

2,500m 2  where the cable sealing end compound does not include circuit
breakers.

12.17

The total footprint of the construction consolidation sites comprised within
the following works must not exceed the following—

Work Total footprint of construction consolidation sites Work Nos. 7 and 8
(combined) 7,040 m 2 Work No. 11 7,040 m 2 Work No. 16 7,040 m 2 Work No. 18
3,000 m 2 Work No. 22 3,000 m 2 Work No. 27 16,500 m 2 Work No. 31 17,100 m 2
Work No. 42 23,350 m 2

12.18

The working width of the onshore cable route must not exceed 32 metres, save
in respect of the following—

12.18.a

where the cables cross the Sandlings SPA the working width of the onshore
cable route must not exceed—

12.18.a.i

16.1 metres, in the event that open cut trenching is used;

12.18.a.ii

90 metres, in the event that a trenchless technique is used;

12.18.b

where the cables cross the Hundred River the working width of the onshore
cable route must not exceed 34 metres for a distance of 40 metres from the
banks of the river;

12.18.c

where the cables cross the woodland to the west of Aldeburgh Road the working
width of the onshore cable route must not exceed 16.1 metres;

12.18.d

where the cables cross an important hedgerow specified in Part 2 of Schedule
11 (important hedgerows that will be crossed using a reduced working width)
the working width of the onshore cable route must not exceed 16.1 metres;

12.18.e

where the cables are within 418 metres of a transition bay forming part of
Work No. 8, the working width of the onshore cable route must not exceed 113
metres; and

12.18.f

where the cables cross the woodland to the east of Aldeburgh Road the working
width of the onshore cable route must not exceed 16.1 metres between Aldeburgh
Road and the point 40 metres from the western bank of the Hundred River.

12.19

Jointing bays must not be installed within 55 metres of a building used as a
dwelling-house.

12.20

Where open cut trenching is used to cross the Sandlings SPA, Work Nos. 11 and
13 must not include trenchless technique compounds.

12.21

The ducts and cables comprised within Work No. 6 must be installed using
horizontal directional drilling.

###### Landfall construction method statement and monitoring plan

13

13.1

No part of Work Nos. 6 or 8 may commence until the following have been
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation body and, in respect of sub-
paragraph (a) and to the extent that it relates to works seaward of mean high
water springs, the marine management organisation—

13.1.a

a landfall construction method statement for the construction of that part of
Work No. 6 or Work No. 8 (which accords with the outline landfall construction
method statement); and

13.1.b

a landfall monitoring plan (which accords with the outline landfall monitoring
plan contained within appendix 2 of the outline landfall construction method
statement).

13.2

The landfall construction method statement and the landfall monitoring plan
must be implemented as approved.

13.3

In the event that inspections carried out in accordance with the landfall
monitoring plan indicate that, as a result of the rate and extent of landfall
erosion, Work Nos. 6 or 8 could become exposed during the operation of the
authorised project the undertaker must, as soon as practicable, submit
proposals in writing for remedial works or mitigation measures to protect Work
Nos. 6 or 8 from coastal retreat, together with a timetable for their
implementation, to the relevant planning authority for approval in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body and the
remedial works or mitigation measures must be implemented as approved.

###### Provision of landscaping

14

14.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a written
landscape management plan and associated work programme (which accords with
the outline landscape and ecological management strategy and includes details
of the ongoing maintenance and management of the landscaping works) has been
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

14.2

The written landscape management plan(s) and associated work programme(s) must
be implemented as approved.

###### Implementation and maintenance of landscaping

15

15.1

All landscaping works must be carried out and maintained in accordance with
the landscape management plan(s) approved under requirement 14 (provision of
landscaping), and in accordance with the relevant recommendations of
appropriate British Standards.

15.2

Any tree or shrub planted as part of an approved landscape management plan
that, within a period of five years (save in relation to Work Nos. 19, 24, 29
and 33, for which the relevant period is ten years) after planting, is
removed, dies or becomes, in the opinion of the relevant planning authority,
seriously damaged or diseased must be replaced in the first available planting
season with a specimen of the same species and size as that originally planted
unless alternative timing or a different specimen is otherwise approved by the
relevant planning authority.

###### Highway accesses

16

16.1

Construction of any access must not begin until written details (which accord
with the outline access management plan) of the siting, design, layout and any
access management measures for any new, permanent or temporary means of access
to a highway to be used by vehicular traffic, or any alteration to an existing
means of access to a highway used by vehicular traffic, has been submitted to
and approved by the relevant highway authority in consultation with the
relevant planning authority.

16.2

The highway accesses must be constructed or altered and the works described in
sub-paragraph   (1) above in relation to access management measures must be
carried out, as the case may be, in accordance with the approved details
before they are brought into use for the purposes of the authorised project.

###### Fencing and other means of enclosure

17

17.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage written
details of all proposed permanent and temporary fences, walls or other means
of enclosure of the onshore works have been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

17.2

All fencing and other means of enclosure of the onshore works must be in
accordance with the approved details.

17.3

Any temporary fencing must be removed on completion of the relevant stage of
the onshore works unless otherwise approved by the relevant planning
authority.

17.4

Any approved permanent fencing in relation to the onshore substation comprised
within Work No. 30, the national grid substation comprised within Work No. 41
and the sealing end compounds comprised within Work No. 38 must be completed
before the respective substation or sealing end compound is brought into use
and must be maintained for the operational lifetime of the work to which it
relates.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

18

18.1

No stage of the onshore works shall commence until a written scheme applicable
to that stage, to mitigate the potential for release of contaminants within
the Order limits has, after consultation with the Environment Agency, been
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority.

18.2

The scheme must include an investigation and assessment report, prepared by a
specialist consultant approved by the relevant planning authority, to identify
the extent of any contamination within the Order limits comprised in that
stage and mitigation measures to be undertaken to limit impacts arising from
the potential release of contaminants.

18.3

The written scheme referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must be implemented as
approved.

###### Pre-commencement archaeology execution plan

19

19.1

No intrusive onshore preparation works (including pre-commencement
archaeological surveys, archaeological investigations or site preparation
works in respect of such surveys or investigations) may be carried out until a
pre-commencement archaeology execution plan (which accords with the outline
pre-commencement archaeology execution plan and the outline written scheme of
investigation (onshore archaeology)) in respect of those works has been
submitted to and approved by Suffolk County Council in consultation with the
relevant planning authority.

19.2

Intrusive onshore preparation works must be carried out in accordance with the
approved plan.

###### Archaeology

20

20.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a written
scheme of archaeological investigation (which accords with the outline written
scheme of investigation (onshore archaeology) and is informed by the pre-
commencement archaeological surveys) has, after consultation with Historic
England, been submitted to and approved by Suffolk County Council in
consultation with the relevant planning authority.

20.2

In the event that site investigation is required, the scheme must include
details of the following—

20.2.a

an assessment of significance and research questions;

20.2.b

the programme and methodology of site investigation and recording;

20.2.c

the programme for post investigation assessment;

20.2.d

provision to be made for analysis of the site investigation and recording;

20.2.e

provision to be made for publication and dissemination of the analysis and
records of the site investigation;

20.2.f

provision to be made for archive deposition of the analysis and records of the
site investigation; and

20.2.g

nomination of a competent person or persons/organisation to undertake the
works set out within the written scheme of investigation.

20.3

Any archaeological works or watching brief must be carried out in accordance
with the approved written scheme of archaeological investigation for that
stage.

20.4

In the event that site investigation is required, the site investigation and
post investigation assessment must be completed for that stage in accordance
with the programme set out in the written scheme of archaeological
investigation and provision made for analysis, publication and dissemination
of results and archive deposition secured for that stage.

###### Ecological management plan

21

21.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a written
ecological management plan (which accords with the outline landscape and
ecological management strategy) reflecting pre-construction survey results,
and the ecological mitigation measures included in the environmental statement
and including—

21.1.a

a breeding bird protection plan;

21.1.b

an arboricultural method statement;

21.1.c

an invasive species method statement;

21.1.d

where appropriate, a special protection area crossing method statement (which
accords with the outline SPA crossing method statement); and

21.1.e

a precautionary method of working for reptiles

has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

21.2

Onshore preparation works may not be carried out until a written ecological
management plan (which accords with the outline landscape and ecological
management strategy) for those works reflecting survey results and the
ecological mitigation measures included in the environmental statement has
been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

21.3

The ecological management plan(s) must include an implementation timetable and
must be carried out as approved.

###### Code of construction practice

22

22.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage a code of
construction practice (which must accord with the outline code of construction
practice) has been submitted to and approved by the relevant discharging
authority.

22.2

The code of construction practice must include—

22.2.a

a surface water and drainage management plan;

22.2.b

a flood management plan;

22.2.c

a construction phase noise and vibration management plan;

22.2.d

a site waste management plan;

22.2.e

a soil management plan including method statements for soil handling;

22.2.f

an air quality management plan;

22.2.g

a materials management plan;

22.2.h

a pollution prevention and response plan including a groundwater protection
method statement and construction method statements for the protection of
onshore water;

22.2.i

a stakeholder communications plan;

22.2.j

an artificial light emissions management plan;

22.2.k

a watercourse crossing method statement (which accords with the outline
watercourse crossing method statement); and

22.2.l

a Sizewell Gap construction method statement (which accords with the outline
Sizewell Gap construction method statement).

22.3

The relevant discharging authority is the relevant planning authority, except
in relation to any surface water and drainage management plan prepared under
requirements 22(2)(a) or flood management plan prepared under requirement
22(2)(b), where it is the relevant lead local flood authority.

22.4

The code of construction practice approved in relation to the relevant stage
of the onshore works must be followed in relation to that stage of the onshore
works.

22.5

In approving the code of construction practice the relevant discharging
authority must consult with the relevant planning authority in relation to the
following plans—

22.5.a

the surface water and drainage management plan; and

22.5.b

the flood management plan.

22.6

In approving the code of construction practice the relevant discharging
authority must consult with the relevant statutory nature conservation body in
relation to the watercourse crossing method statement and in relation to the
following plans to the extent that they relate to the Works Nos. specified—

22.6.a

the surface water and drainage management plan in respect of Work Nos. 7 to 14
and Work No. 19;

22.6.b

the construction phase noise and vibration management plan in respect of Work
Nos. 7 to 14;

22.6.c

the soil management plan in respect of Work No. 12 and Work No. 12A;

22.6.d

the pollution prevention and response plan in respect of Work Nos. 7 to 14 and
Work No. 19; and

22.6.e

the artificial light emissions management plan in respect of Work Nos. 7 to
14.

###### Construction hours for the transmission works

23

23.1

Construction work for the transmission works must only take place between 0700
hours and 1900 hours Monday to Friday and 0700 hours and 1300 hours on
Saturdays, with no activity on Sundays or bank holidays, except as specified
in sub-paragraph (2).

23.2

Outside the hours specified in   sub-paragraph   (1), construction work may be
undertaken for essential activities including but not limited to—

23.2.a

continuous periods of operation that are required as assessed in the
environmental statement, such as concrete pouring, dewatering, cable pulling,
cable jointing and drilling during the operation of a trenchless technique;

23.2.b

internal fitting out works associated with the onshore substation;

23.2.c

delivery to the transmission works of abnormal loads that may cause congestion
on the local road network;

23.2.d

the testing or commissioning of any electrical plant or cables installed as
part of the authorised development; and

23.2.e

activity necessary in the instance of an emergency where there is a risk to
persons, delivery of electricity or property.

23.3

With the exception of activities undertaken in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2)(e), the timing and duration of construction work undertaken in accordance
with sub-paragraph (2) and, where works do not fall within sub-paragraphs
(2)(a) to (2)(e), whether such works are essential, must be approved by the
relevant planning authority in writing in advance, and must be carried out
within the approved time.

###### Construction hours for the grid connection works

24

24.1

Construction work for the grid connection works must only take place between
0700 hours and 1900 hours Monday to Friday and 0700 hours and 1300 hours on
Saturdays, with no activity on Sundays or bank holidays, except as specified
in sub-paragraph (2).

24.2

Outside the hours specified in sub-paragraph (1), construction work may be
undertaken for essential activities including but not limited to—

24.2.a

continuous periods of operation that are required as assessed in the
environmental statement, such as concrete pouring and the installation and
removal of conductors, pilot wires and associated protective netting across
highways or public footpaths;

24.2.b

internal fitting out works associated with the national grid substation;

24.2.c

the completion of construction activities commenced during the approved
working hours which cannot safely be stopped;

24.2.d

the testing or commissioning of any electrical plant installed as part of the
authorised development; and

24.2.e

activity necessary in the instance of an emergency where there is a risk to
persons or property.

24.3

With the exception of activities undertaken in accordance with sub-paragraph
(2)(e), the timing and duration of construction work undertaken in accordance
with sub-paragraph (2) and, where works do not fall within sub-paragraphs
(2)(a) to (2)(e), whether such works are essential, must be approved by the
relevant planning authority in writing in advance, and must be carried out
within the approved time.

###### Control of artificial light emissions during operational phase

25

25.1

Work No. 30 must not begin operation until an operational artificial light
emissions management plan providing details of artificial light emissions
during the operation of Work No. 30, including measures to minimise lighting
pollution and the hours of lighting, has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

25.2

The approved operational artificial light emissions management plan must be
implemented upon, and maintained during, the operation of Work No. 30.

25.3

Work No. 41 must not begin operation until an operational artificial light
emissions management plan providing details of artificial light emissions
during the operation of Work No. 41, including measures to minimise lighting
pollution and the hours of lighting, has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

25.4

The approved operational artificial light emissions management plan must be
implemented upon, and maintained during, the operation of Work No. 41.

25.5

Work No. 38 must not begin operation until an operational artificial light
emissions management plan providing details of artificial light emissions
during the operation of Work No. 38, including measures to minimise lighting
pollution and the hours of lighting, has been submitted to and approved by the
relevant planning authority.

25.6

The approved operational artificial light emissions management plan must be
implemented upon, and maintained during, the operation of Work No. 38.

###### Onshore preparation works management plan

26

26.1

Prior to carrying out specified onshore preparation works, an onshore
preparation works management plan in respect of those works (which accords
with appendix 1 of the outline code of construction practice) must be
submitted to and approved by the relevant planning authority in consultation
with Suffolk County Council.

26.2

The specified onshore preparation works must be carried out in accordance with
the approved onshore preparation works management plan.

26.3

For the purposes of this requirement, “ specified onshore preparation works ”
means operations consisting of site clearance, demolition work, early planting
of landscaping works, intrusive ecological mitigation, investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, diversion and laying of
services, erection of temporary means of enclosure, creation of site accesses,
footpath creation and erection of welfare facilities.

###### Control of noise during operational phase

27

27.1

The combined noise rating level for the standard operation of Work No. 30
cumulatively with the standard operation of the new national grid substation
and the East Anglia TWO onshore substation must not exceed—

27.1.a

32dB LAeq (15 min) at any time at a free field location immediately adjacent
to the following noise sensitive locations—

27.1.a.i

1 Woodside Cottages, Grove Road (641837, 261172);

27.1.a.ii

Woodside Barn Cottages, Church Road (641237, 260645);

27.1.b

31dB LAeq (15 min) at any time at a free field location immediately adjacent
to the noise sensitive location—

Little Moor Farm, Knodishall (641228, 261676).

27.2

Work No. 30 must not operate at the same time as the new national grid
substation or the East Anglia TWO onshore substation until a scheme for
monitoring compliance with the noise rating levels set out in sub-paragraph
(1) above has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority. The scheme must be based on principles set out in BS
4142:2014+A1:2019. The reference method set out in Annex D to BS
4142:2014+A1:2019 shall be used in the assessment of whether tonal penalties
apply. The scheme must identify—

27.2.a

the required meteorological and other conditions under which the measurements
will be taken, acknowledging that data obtained during emergency operation or
testing of certain plant and equipment is not to be taken in to account;

27.2.b

suitable monitoring locations (and alternative surrogate locations if
appropriate); and

27.2.c

times when the monitoring is to take place

to demonstrate that the noise levels have been achieved after—

27.2.d

initial commencement of—

27.2.d.i

Work No. 30, the new national grid substation and the East Anglia TWO onshore
substation all operating at the same time; and

27.2.d.ii

where Work No. 30 begins operation before the East Anglia TWO onshore
substation, Work No. 30 and the new national grid substation operating at the
same time; and

27.2.e

six months after—

27.2.e.i

Work No. 30, the new national grid substation and the East Anglia TWO onshore
substation have all been operating cumulatively at full capacity; and

27.2.e.ii

where Work No. 30 begins operation at least six months before the East Anglia
TWO onshore substation, both Work No. 30 and the new national grid substation
have been operating cumulatively at full capacity.

27.3

The monitoring scheme must be implemented as approved.

27.4

For the purposes of this requirement—

27.4.a

“ East Anglia TWO onshore substation ” means the onshore substation comprised
within Work No. 30 of the East Anglia TWO Order;

27.4.b

“ new national grid substation ” means the national grid substation comprised
within Work No. 41 of this Order and Work No. 41 of the East Anglia TWO Order;
and

27.4.c

“ standard operation ” means the ordinary operation of the substations
excluding emergency operation and the testing of plant and equipment
associated with emergency operation.

###### Traffic

28

28.1

No stage of the onshore works may commence until for that stage the following
have been submitted to and approved by the relevant highway authority in
consultation with the relevant planning authority—

28.1.a

a construction traffic management plan which must be in accordance with the
outline construction traffic management plan; and

28.1.b

a travel plan which must be in accordance with the outline travel plan.

28.2

The plans approved under   sub-paragraph   (1) must be implemented upon
commencement of the relevant stage of the onshore works.

###### Restoration of land used temporarily for construction

29

Any land landward of mean low water springs within the Order limits which is
used temporarily for construction of the onshore works and not ultimately
incorporated in permanent works or approved landscaping must be reinstated, in
accordance with such details as the relevant planning authority in
consultation with the relevant highway authority may approve, within twelve
months of completion of the relevant stage of the onshore works or such other
period as the relevant planning authority may approve.

###### Onshore decommissioning

30

30.1

The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority of the permanent
cessation of commercial operation of the transmission works within 14 days
following the date of permanent cessation.

30.2

Within six months following the permanent cessation of commercial operation of
the transmission works an onshore decommissioning plan in respect of the
transmission works must be submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority in consultation with the relevant highway authority and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body.

30.3

The undertaker must notify the relevant planning authority of the permanent
cessation of commercial operation of the grid connection works within 14 days
following the date of permanent cessation.

30.4

Within six months following the permanent cessation of commercial operation of
the grid connection works an onshore decommissioning plan in respect of the
grid connection works must be submitted to and approved by the relevant
planning authority in consultation with the relevant highway authority and the
relevant statutory nature conservation body.

30.5

The decommissioning plans must be implemented as approved.

###### Aviation Lighting

31

31.1

The undertaker must exhibit such lights, with such shape, colour and character
as are required in writing by Air Navigation Order 2016  and determined
necessary for aviation safety in consultation with the Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding and as directed by the Civil Aviation Authority.

31.2

Such lights will be operated at the lowest permissible lighting intensity
level.

###### Public rights of way

32

32.1

No stage of the authorised development or onshore preparation works that would
affect a public right of way specified in Schedule 3 (public rights of way to
be temporarily stopped up) or Schedule 4 (footpaths to be stopped up) is to be
undertaken until a public rights of way strategy in respect of that stage and
in accordance with the outline public rights of way strategy, including the
specification for the making up of an alternative right of way (where
appropriate) has been submitted to and approved by the relevant highway
authority in consultation with the relevant planning authority.

32.2

Any alternative public rights of way must be implemented in accordance with
the approved public rights of way strategy.

###### Emergency planning arrangements

33

33.1

No part of the relevant works shall commence until the Suffolk Resilience
Forum Radiation Emergency Plan has been reviewed to account for the relevant
works or part thereof and reissued in accordance with the relevant Radiation
Emergency Preparedness Regulations.

33.2

Emergency planning arrangements specified within the Suffolk Resilience Forum
Radiation Emergency Plan in respect of the relevant works shall be implemented
in relation to the relevant part of the relevant works, unless otherwise
agreed with Suffolk County Council after consultation with the Sizewell
Emergency Planning Consultative Committee or Suffolk Resilience Forum as
appropriate.

33.3

For the purposes of this requirement—

33.3.a

“ the relevant works ” means—

33.3.a.i

the onshore preparation works;

33.3.a.ii

the onshore works; and

33.3.a.iii

to the extent that they are within the Sizewell B Detailed Emergency Planning
Zone, the offshore works.

33.3.b

“ the relevant Radiation Emergency Preparedness Regulations ” means the
Radiation (Emergency Preparedness and Public Information) Regulations 2019  as
amended from time to time; and

33.3.c

“ the relevant Sizewell B Detailed Emergency Planning Zone ” means the
Sizewell Detailed Emergency Planning Zone detailed within the Suffolk
Resilience Forum Radiation Emergency Plan.

###### Ministry of Defence surveillance operations

34

34.1

No wind turbine generator forming part of the authorised development is
permitted to rotate its rotor blades on its horizontal axis until the
Secretary of State, having consulted with the Ministry of Defence, confirms
satisfaction in writing that appropriate mitigation will be implemented and
maintained for the life of the authorised development and that arrangements
have been put in place with the Ministry of Defence to ensure that the
approved mitigation is implemented.

34.2

For the purposes of this requirement—

34.2.a

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to prevent or remove any adverse
effects which the authorised development will have on the air defence radar at
Remote Radar Head Trimingham and the Ministry of Defence’s air surveillance
and control operations;

34.2.b

“ approved mitigation ” means the detailed Radar Mitigation Scheme that will
set out the appropriate measures and timescales for implementation as agreed
with the Ministry of Defence at the time the Secretary of State confirms
satisfaction in writing in accordance with   sub-paragraph    (1) ;

34.2.c

“ Ministry of Defence ” means the Ministry of Defence as represented by
Defence Infrastructure Organisation – Safeguarding, Kingston Road, Sutton
Coldfield, B75 7RL or any successor body.

34.3

The undertaker must thereafter comply with all other obligations contained
within the approved mitigation for the life of the authorised development.

###### Cromer Primary Surveillance Radar

35

35.1

No erection of any wind turbine generator forming part of the authorised
development may commence until the Secretary of State, having consulted with
NATS, has confirmed satisfaction in writing that appropriate mitigation will
be implemented and maintained for the required period and that arrangements
have been put in place with NATS to ensure that the approved mitigation is
implemented and in operation prior to erection of the wind turbine generators.

35.2

The undertaker must thereafter comply with the obligations contained within
the approved mitigation for the required period.

35.3

For the purposes of this requirement—

35.3.a

“ appropriate mitigation ” means measures to mitigate any adverse effects
which the operation of the authorised development will have on the primary
surveillance radar at Cromer and NATS’ associated air traffic (surveillance
and control) services/operations during the required period;

35.3.b

“ approved mitigation ” means the detailed Primary Radar Mitigation Scheme
setting out the appropriate mitigation approved by the Secretary of State and
confirmed in writing in accordance with sub-paragraph (1);

35.3.c

“ NATS ” means NATS (En-Route) Plc (company number 04129273) or any successor
body;

35.3.d

“ the required period ” means the shorter of—

35.3.d.i

the operational life of the authorised development; and

35.3.d.ii

the period ending on the date notified to the Secretary of State by the
undertaker and confirmed in writing by NATS being the date on which NATS no
longer requires the appropriate mitigation to be in place.

###### Port traffic

36

36.1

No part of Work No. 1 may commence until—

36.1.a

a port construction traffic management plan (which accords with the outline
port construction traffic management and travel plan) for the onshore port-
related traffic to and from the construction port or ports and relating to
that part of the authorised development, has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant highway authority in consultation with the relevant planning
authority; or

36.1.b

the relevant highway authority has confirmed, after consultation with the
relevant planning authority, that no port construction traffic management plan
is required for that part of the authorised development.

36.2

No part of Work No. 1 may begin operating until—

36.2.a

a port travel plan (which accords with the outline port construction traffic
management and travel plan) for the onshore port-related traffic to and from
the operation port or ports and relating to that part of the authorised
development, has been submitted to and approved by the relevant highway
authority in consultation with the relevant planning authority; or

36.2.b

the relevant highway authority has confirmed, after consultation with the
relevant planning authority, that no port travel plan is required for that
part of the authorised development.

36.3

The port construction traffic management plan must be implemented as approved
at all times specified within the port construction traffic management plan
during the construction of the authorised project.

36.4

The port travel plan must be implemented as approved at all times specified
within the port travel plan during the operation of the authorised project.

36.5

For the purposes of this requirement—

“relevant planning authority” and “relevant highway authority” mean— in
respect of sub-paragraph  (1) , the planning or highway authority or
authorities in whose area the relevant construction port is located; and in
respect of sub-paragraph  (2) , the planning or highway authority or
authorities in whose area the relevant operation port is located;
“construction port” or “ ports ” means a port or ports situated in England
and/or Wales and used for construction of the authorised project; and
“operation port” or “ ports ” means a port or ports situated in England and/or
Wales and used by management personnel for the ongoing operational management
of the authorised project.

###### Decommissioning of relevant landfall works

37

37.1

After a period of 24 years but before the expiration of a period of 25 years
following completion of construction of the relevant landfall works, the
undertaker must submit a report to the relevant planning authority detailing
the following—

37.1.a

the extent of coastal retreat experienced following completion of
construction;

37.1.b

whether any remedial works or mitigation measures to protect the relevant
landfall works from coastal retreat have been required during this period,
what these works comprised and an assessment of their impacts on coastal
processes;

37.1.c

the length of the anticipated remaining operational lifespan of the authorised
project;

37.1.d

the extent of the likely coastal retreat during the timeframe of the
anticipated remaining operational lifespan of the authorised project and the
likely need for, and nature of, any proposed remedial works or mitigation
measures to protect the relevant landfall works from coastal retreat and an
analysis of their predicted impact on coastal processes; and

37.1.e

any proposed remedial works or mitigation measures identified under sub-
paragraph (d).

37.2

If it cannot be demonstrated to the reasonable satisfaction of the relevant
planning authority that, taking into account any proposals for such remedial
works or mitigation measures, the relevant landfall works will not have a
significant impact on coastal processes then the relevant landfall works must
be decommissioned in accordance with Requirement  30  (onshore
decommissioning).

37.3

For the purposes of this requirement—

“ the relevant landfall works ” means Work No. 6, to the extent that the works
are landward of mean low water springs, and Work No. 8.

###### Restriction on carrying out grid connection works where consented in another order

38

38.1

Where any part of the grid connection works are being or have been constructed
under another development consent order, that part of the grid connection
works must not be constructed under this Order.

38.2

Work No. 34 must not—

38.2.a

be constructed more than once under this Order;

38.2.b

be constructed under this Order if it is being or has been constructed under
another development consent order.

###### Requirement for written approval

39

Where under any of the above requirements the approval or agreement of the
Secretary of State, the relevant planning authority or another person is
required, that approval or agreement must be given in writing.

###### Amendments to approved details

40

40.1

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised project to be
carried out in accordance with the details approved by the relevant planning
authority or another person, the approved details must be carried out as
approved unless an amendment or variation is previously approved in writing by
the relevant planning authority or that other person in accordance with sub-
paragraph (2).

40.2

Any amendments to or variations from the approved details must be in
accordance with the principles and assessments set out in the environmental
statement. Such agreement may only be given in relation to immaterial changes
where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the relevant planning
authority or that other person that the subject matter of the agreement sought
is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects from those assessed in the environmental statement.

40.3

The approved details must be taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the relevant planning authority or that
other person.

###### Operational drainage management plan

41

41.1

No part of Work Nos. 30, 34, 38 or 41 may commence until an operational
drainage management plan in respect of that part (which accords with the
outline operational drainage management plan) and includes provision for the
maintenance of any measures identified, has been submitted to and approved by
the relevant lead local flood authority, in consultation with the relevant
planning authority and the Environment Agency.

41.2

The operational drainage management plan must be implemented as approved.

###### Installation of cable ducts

42

42.1

In the event that the cables comprised within the East Anglia TWO cable works
are installed prior to the cables comprised within the East Anglia ONE North
cable works, the East Anglia ONE North cable works may not subsequently be
installed unless the cable ducts forming part of the East Anglia ONE North
cable works have been installed concurrently with the installation of the
cables comprised within the East Anglia TWO cable works.

42.2

For the purposes of this requirement—

42.2.a

“the East Anglia TWO cable works” mean Work Nos. 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16 to 23
and 26 of the East Anglia TWO Order; and

42.2.b

“the East Anglia ONE North cable works” mean Work Nos. 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16
to 23 and 26 of this Order.

###### Restriction on carrying out grid connection works

43

No part of the grid connection works may commence under this Order until
either—

43.a

the offshore works have commenced; or

43.b

the undertaker has provided appropriate evidence to the Secretary of State
demonstrating its commitment to commence the authorised development described
within paragraph 1 of Schedule 1, Part 1 and the Secretary of State has
confirmed that the grid connection works may commence.

###### Control of development during operational phase

44

During the operation of and within operational land related to Work No. 30 and
Work No. 41, any development in addition to that authorised in this Order that
is permitted under Schedule 2 Part 15 Class B (d), (e) or (f) of the General
Permitted Development Order 2015 (“electricity undertakings permitted
development”) or any equivalent successor provision is subject to the
following conditions—

44.a

In respect of operational drainage—

44.a.i

No electricity undertakings permitted development may commence until an
amendment to the operational drainage management plan approved pursuant to
requirement 41 that includes provision for the replacement of any existing
drainage measures to be removed and maintenance of any new drainage measures
to be provided as part of the permitted development, has been submitted to and
approved by the relevant lead local flood authority, in consultation with the
relevant planning authority and the Environment Agency; and

44.a.ii

The measures in the amendment to the operational drainage management plan in
respect of the permitted development must be implemented as approved.

44.b

In respect of the provision, implementation and maintenance of landscaping—

44.b.i

No electricity undertakings permitted development may commence until an
amendment to the written landscape management plan and associated work
programme approved pursuant to requirement 14 that includes provision for the
replacement of any existing landscape measures to be removed and maintenance
of any new landscape measures to be provided as part of the permitted
development, has been submitted to and approved by the relevant planning
authority; and

44.b.ii

The measures in the amendment to the written landscape management plan and
associated work programme plan in respect of the permitted development must be
implemented as approved.

Streets subject to street works

Article 8

(1) (2) Area Street subject to street works District of East Suffolk Public
right of way footpath E-106/020/0 between reference points 1a and 1b on sheet
1 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Private track / public
right of way footpath E-106/025/0 between reference points 2a and 2b on sheet
2 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk SIZEWELL GAP between
reference points 3a and 3b on sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk SIZEWELL GAP between reference points 3c and 3d on sheet 3 of 12
of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way bridleway
E-363/026/0 between reference points 3e and 3f and between points 3g and 3h on
sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way
footpath E-363/029/0 between reference points 3i and 3j on sheet 3 of 12 of
the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath
E-363/024/0 between reference points 3k and 3l on sheet 3 of 12 of the works
plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath E-363/023/0
between reference points 3m and 3n on sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans.
District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath E-363/022/0 between
reference points 3o and 3p on sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk Public right of way bridleway E-363/027/0 between reference
points 3q and 3r on sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk
Public right of way bridleway E-363/015/0 between reference points 4a and 4b
on sheet 4 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public rights of
way footpath E-363/014/0 between reference points 4a and 4c on sheet 4 of 12
of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public rights of way footpath
E-363/014/A between reference points 4d and 4e on sheet 4 of 12 of the works
plans. District of East Suffolk THORPE ROAD between reference points 5a and 5b
on sheet 5 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of
way footpath E-106/065/0 between reference points 5c and 5d on sheet 5 of 12
of the works plans. District of East Suffolk ALDEBURGH ROAD between reference
points 5e and 5f on sheet 5 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk
Public right of way footpath E-260/030/0 between reference points 5g and 5h on
sheet 5 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way
footpath E-260/007/0 between reference points 5i and 5j on sheet 5 of 12 of
the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath
E-260/009/0 between reference points 5k and 5l on sheet 5 of 12 of the works
plans. District of East Suffolk SLOE LANE between reference points 6a and 6b
on sheet 6 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1069 (SNAPE
ROAD) between reference points 6c and 6d on sheet 6 of 12 on the works plans.
District of East Suffolk Public right of way bridleway E-354/020/0 between
reference points 6e and 6f on sheet 6 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk Public right of way bridleway E-354/036/0 between reference
points 6g and 6h on sheet 6 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk
Public right of way bridleway E-354/001/0 between reference points 6i and 6j
on sheet 6 of 12 of the works plans; and between reference points 8g and 8h on
sheet 8 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way
footpath E-354/003/0 between reference points 6k and 6l on sheet 6 of 12 of
the works plans. District of East Suffolk GROVE ROAD between reference points
7a and 7b on sheet 7 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk CHURCH
ROAD between reference points 7f and 7j on sheet 7 of 12 on the works plans.
District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath E-354/007/0 between
reference points 7c and 7d on sheet 7 of 12 on the works plans. District of
East Suffolk Public right of way footpath E-354/006/0 between reference points
7e and 8a on sheet 7 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public
right of way footpath E-260/017/0 between reference points 7f and 7g on sheet
7 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way
footpath E-260/017/0 between reference points 7h and 7i on sheet 7 of 12 on
the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath
E-354/008/0 between reference points 8a and 8b on sheet 8 of 12 on the works
plans. District of East Suffolk GROVE ROAD between reference points 8c and 8d
on sheet 8 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of
way footpath E-354/007/A between reference points 8e and 8f on sheet 8 of 12
on the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1121 (SAXMUNDHAM ROAD) between
reference points 9a and 9b on sheet 9 of 12 on the works plans. District of
East Suffolk B1121 (SAXMUNDHAM ROAD) between reference points 9b and 9c on
sheet 9 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way
footpath E-260/016/0 between reference points 9d and 9e on sheet 9 of 12 on
the works plans. District of East Suffolk A1094 (FARNHAM ROAD) between
reference points 10a and 10d on sheet 10 of 12 on the works plans. District of
East Suffolk A1094 (ALDEBURGH ROAD) between reference points 10b and 10d on
sheet 10 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1121 (ALDEBURGH
ROAD) between reference points 10c and 10d on sheet 10 of 12 on the works
plans. District of East Suffolk B1069 (SNAPE ROAD) between reference points
10e and 10f on sheet 10 of 12 on the works plans. District of East Suffolk A12
(MAIN ROAD) between reference points 11a and 11b on sheet 11 of 12 on the
works plans. District of East Suffolk A1094 (FRIDAY STREET) between reference
points 11c and 11d on sheet 11 of 12 on the works plans. District of East
Suffolk A12 (MAIN ROAD) between reference points 12a and 12b on sheet 12 of 12
on the works plans. District of East Suffolk Public right of way footpath
E-387/009/0 between reference points 12c and 12d on sheet 12 of 12 on the
works plans.

Public rights of way to be temporarily stopped up

Article 11

(1) (2) (3) (4) Area Public right of way to be temporarily stopped up Extent
of temporary stopping up Temporary public right of way to be substituted
District of East Suffolk Byway open to all traffic reference 1 (E-106/020/0)
Approximately 120m of the existing byway open to all traffic reference 1
(E-106/020/0) between the points marked L-1 and L-2 on sheet 1 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed pink
line. Approximately 646m of proposed byway open to all traffic reference TEMP1
between the points marked L-1 and L-2 on sheet 1 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of
East Suffolk Byway open to all traffic reference 2 (E-106/025/0) Approximately
66m of the existing byway open to all traffic reference 2 (E-106/025/0)
between the points marked CS1-1 and CS1-2 on sheet 2 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed pink line.
Approximately 236m of proposed byway open to all traffic reference TEMP2a, or
approximately 360m of proposed byway open to all traffic reference TEMP2b
between the points CS1-1 and CS1-2 on sheet 2 of 12 of the temporary stopping
up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Bridleway reference 3 (E-363/026/0) Approximately 73m of the existing
bridleway reference 3 (E-363/026/0) between the points marked CS1-3 and CS1-4
on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan
shown with a dashed green line. Approximately 339m of proposed bridleway
reference TEMP3 between the points marked CS1-3 and CS1-4 on sheet 3 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference 4 (E-363/026/0) Approximately
345m of the existing bridleway reference 4 (E-363/026/0) between the points
marked CS2-1 and CS2-2 on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a dashed blue line. Approximately 578m of
proposed bridleway reference TEMP4a between the points marked CS2-1 and CS2-2
on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan
shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the
relevant highway authority. Approximately 780m of proposed bridleway reference
TEMP4b between the points marked CS2-1 to CS2-7 on sheet 3 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 5 (E-363/024/0) Approximately 739m
of the existing footpath reference 5 (E-363/024/0) between the points marked
CS2-3 and CS2-4 on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights
of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 806m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP5 between the points marked CS2-3 and CS2-4 or
approximately 1146m of proposed footpath reference TEMP6b, TEMP6a, TEMP8 and
TEMP7 between the points marked CS2-3 and CS2-4 on sheet 3 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 6 (E-363/029/0) Approximately 88m
of the existing footpath reference 6 (E-363/029/0) between the points marked
CS2-5 and CS2-6 on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights
of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 531m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP4b and TEMP6b between the points marked CS2-5 and CS2-6
on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan
shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the
relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 7
(E-363/023/0) Approximately 298m of the existing footpath reference 7
(E-363/023/0) between the points marked CS2-7 and CS2-8 on sheet 3 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed
yellow line. Approximately 497m of proposed footpath reference TEMP7 between
the points marked CS2-7 and CS2-8 on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping
up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 8 (E-363/022/0) Approximately 684m of the existing footpath
reference 8 (E-363/022/0) between the points marked CS2-9 and CS2-12 on sheet
3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
dashed yellow line. Approximately 537m of proposed footpath reference TEMP8
and TEMP7 between the points marked CS2-9 and CS2-12 on sheet 3 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference 9 (E-363/027/0) Approximately 31m
of the existing bridleway reference 9 (E-363/027/0) between the points marked
CS2-10 and CS2-11 on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a dashed green line. Approximately 98m of
proposed footpath reference TEMP9 between the points marked CS2-10 and CS2-11
on sheet 3 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan
shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the
relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference 10
(E-363/015/0) Approximately 199m of the existing bridleway reference 10
(E-363/015/0) between the points marked CS2-13 and CS2-14 on sheet 4 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed
green line. Approximately 216m of proposed bridleway reference TEMP10a or
approximately 359m of proposed bridleway reference TEMP10b between the points
marked CS2-13 and CS2-14 on sheet 4 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 11 (E-363/014/0) Approximately 66m of the existing footpath
reference 11 (E-363/014/0) between the points marked CS2-15 and CS2-16 on
sheet 4 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 288m of proposed footpath reference
TEMP11 between the points marked CS2-15 and CS2-16 on sheet 4 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 12 (E-363/014/A) Approximately
106m of the existing footpath reference 12 (E-363/014/A) between the points
marked CS2-17 and CS2-18 on sheet 4 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan. shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 347m
of proposed footpath reference TEMP12a or approximately 409m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP12b between the points marked CS2-17 and CS2-18 on
sheet 4 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant
highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 13
(E-106/065/0) Approximately 70m of the existing footpath reference 13
(E-106/065/0) between the points marked CS2-19 and CS2-20 on sheet 5 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan. shown with a dashed
yellow line. Approximately 270m of proposed footpath reference TEMP13a or
approximately 266m of proposed footpath reference TEMP13b between the points
marked CS2-19 and CS2-20 on sheet 5 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 14 (E-260/030/0) Approximately 61m of the existing footpath
reference 14 (E-260/030/0) between the points marked CS3-1 and CS3-2 on sheet
5 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan. shown with
a dashed yellow line. Approximately 321m of proposed footpath reference TEMP14
between the points marked CS3-1 and CS3-2 on sheet 5 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of
East Suffolk Footpath reference 15 (E-260/007/0) Approximately 239m of the
existing footpath reference 15 (E-260/007/0) between the points marked CS3-3
and CS3-4 on sheet 5 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of
way plan. shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 654m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP15 between the points marked CS3-3 and CS3-4 on sheet 5
of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway
authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 16 (E-260/009/0)
Approximately 156m of the existing footpath reference 16 (E-260/009/0) between
the points marked CS3-5 and CS3-6 on sheet 5 of 12 of the temporary stopping
up of public rights of way plan. shown with a dashed yellow line.
Approximately 577m of proposed footpath reference TEMP16a or approximately
418m of proposed footpath reference TEMP16b between the points marked CS3-5
and CS3-6 on sheet 5 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of
way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by
the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference
17 (E-354/020/0) Approximately 220m of the existing bridleway reference 17
(E-354/020/0) between the points marked CS4-1 and CS4-2 on sheet 6 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan. shown with a dashed
green line. Approximately 637m of proposed bridleway reference TEMP17/18
between the points marked CS4-5 and CS4-2 on sheet 6 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of
East Suffolk Bridleway reference 18 (E-354/036/0) Approximately 225m of the
existing bridleway reference 18 (E-354/036/0) between the points marked CS4-3
and CS4-4 on sheet 6 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of
way plan. shown with a dashed green line. Approximately 637m of proposed
bridleway reference TEMP17/18 between the points marked CS4-5 and CS4-4 on
sheet 6 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant
highway authority. District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference 19
(E-354/001/0) Approximately 270m of the existing bridleway reference 19
(E-354/001/0) between the points marked CS4-6 and CS4-7 on sheet 6 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan. shown with a dashed
green line. Approximately 538m of proposed bridleway reference TEMP19a between
the points marked CS4-6 and CS4-3 or approximately 337m of proposed bridleway
reference TEMP19b between the points marked CS4-7 and CS4-10 on sheet 6 of 12
of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black
and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway
authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 20 (E-354/003/0)
Approximately 96m of the existing footpath reference 20 (E-354/003/0) between
the points marked CS4-8 and CS4-9 on sheet 6 of 12 of the temporary stopping
up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately
363m of proposed footpath reference TEMP20a or approximately 347m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP20b between the points marked CS4-8 and CS4-9 on sheet
6 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway
authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 21 (E-354/007/0)
Approximately 316m of the existing footpath reference 21 (E-354/007/0) between
the points marked S-1 and S-2 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 395m
of proposed footpath reference TEMP21 between the points marked S-1 and S-2 on
sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant
highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 22
(E-354/006/0) Approximately 283m of the existing footpath reference 22
(E-354/006/0) between the points marked S-4 and S-22 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow
line. Approximately 337m of proposed footpath reference TEMP22 between the
points marked S-22 and S-14 and approximately 559m of proposed footpath
reference TEMP22 between the points marked S-15 and S-5 on sheet 7 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 23 (E-354/006/0) Approximately
206m of the existing footpath reference 23 (E-354/006/0) between the points
marked S-4 and S-5 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 421m of
proposed footpath reference TEMP23a or approximately 691m of proposed footpath
reference TEMP23b between points marked S-4 and S-5 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 24 (E-354/006/0) Approximately
208m of the existing footpath reference 24 (E-354/006/0) between the points
marked S-22 and S-24 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 324m of
proposed footpath reference TEMP22 between the points marked S-22 and S-14 and
approximately 157m of proposed footpath reference TEMP24 between points marked
S-24 and S-25 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights
of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved
by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference
25 (E-354/006/0) Approximately 294m of the existing footpath reference 25
(E-354/006/0) between the points marked S-24 and S-3 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow
line. Approximately 442m of proposed footpath reference TEMP25 and TEMP21
between the points S-24 and S-3 on sheet 7 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 26 (E-354/007/A) Approximately 465m of the existing
footpath reference 26 (E-354/007/A) between the points marked S-10 and S-11 on
sheet 8 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 571m of proposed footpath reference
TEMP26 between the points marked S-10 and S-11 on sheet 8 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Bridleway reference 27 (E-354/001/0) Approximately
207m of the existing bridleway reference 27 (E-354/001/0) between the points
marked S-12 and S-13 on sheet 8 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a dashed green line. Approximately 491m of
proposed bridleway reference TEMP27 between the points marked S-12 and S-13 on
sheet 8 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant
highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 28
(E-260/017/0) Approximately 169m of the existing footpath reference 28
(E-260/017/0) between the points marked S-20 and S-21 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow
line. Approximately 524m of proposed footpath reference TEMP28a between the
points S-20 and S-21 or approximately 413m of proposed footpath reference
TEMP28b between points S-20 and S-21 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of
East Suffolk Footpath reference 29 (E-260/017/0) Approximately 769m of the
existing footpath reference 29 (E-260/017/0) between the points marked S-14
and S-15 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way
plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 1136m of proposed footpath
reference TEMP22, TEMP28b and TEMP22/34 between the points marked S-14 and
S-15 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way
plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the
relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 30
(E-354/008/0) Approximately 429m of the existing footpath reference 30
(E-354/008/0) between the points marked S-6 and S-7 on sheet 8 of 12 of the
temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow
line. Approximately 393m of proposed footpath reference TEMP30 between the
points marked S-6 and S-7 on sheet 8 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 31 (E-260/016/0) Approximately 53m of the existing footpath
reference 31 (E-260/016/0) between the points marked S-16 and S-17 on sheet 9
of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
dashed yellow line. Approximately 265m of proposed footpath reference TEMP31a
or approximately 273m of proposed footpath reference TEMP31b between the
points marked S-16 and S-17 on sheet 9 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of
public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk
Footpath reference 32 (E-260/017/0) Approximately 548m of the existing
footpath reference 32 (E-260/017/0) between the points marked S-8 and S-14 on
sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 937m of proposed footpath reference
TEMP35 and TEMP22 between the points marked S-8 and S-14 on sheet 7 of 12 of
the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 33 (E-387/009/0) Approximately 45m
of the existing footpath reference 33 (E-387/009/0) between the points marked
HW-1 and HW-2 on sheet 12 of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights
of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 56m of proposed
footpath reference TEMP33 between the points marked HW-1 and HW-2 on sheet 12
of 12 of the temporary stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway
authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 34 (E/260/017/0)
Approximately 294m of the existing footpath reference 34 (E-260/017/0) between
the points marked S-15 and S-21 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary stopping up
of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Temporary
diversion of approximately 295m of proposed footpath reference TEMP22/34
between the points marked S-15 and S-21 on sheet 7 of 12 of the temporary
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise agreed with the relevant highway authority.

Footpaths to be stopped up

Article 10

(1) (2) (3) (4) Area Footpath to be stopped up Extent of stopping up New
footpath to be substituted District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 35
(E-354/007/0) Approximately 87m of the existing footpath reference 35
(E-354/007/0) between the points marked S-1 and S-3; and approximately 38m of
the existing footpath reference 35 (E-354/007/0) between the points marked S-4
and S-5 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public rights of way
plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 89m of proposed footpath
reference PERM35a between the points marked S-1 and S-3 on sheet 7 of 12 of
the permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority.
Approximately 24m of proposed footpath reference PERM35b between the points
marked S-4 and S-5 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public
rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise
approved by the relevant highway authority. District of East Suffolk Footpath
reference 36 (E-354/006/0) Approximately 693m of the existing footpath
reference 36 (E-354/006/0) between points marked S-6 and S-8 on sheet 7 of 12
of the permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a dashed
yellow line. Approximately 584m of proposed footpath reference PERM36a between
the points marked S-1 and S-13 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up
of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed line or as
otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. Approximately 761m of
proposed footpath reference PERM36b between the points marked S-13 and S-8 on
sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan shown
with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant
highway authority. Approximately 569m of proposed footpath reference PERM36c
between the points marked S-8 and S-2 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent
stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and white dashed
line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway authority. Approximately
157m of proposed footpath reference PERM36d between the points marked S-6 and
S-7 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan
shown with a black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the
relevant highway authority. Approximately 188m of proposed footpath reference
PERM36e between the points marked S-9 and S-10 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a black and
white dashed line or as otherwise agreed with the relevant highway authority.
District of East Suffolk Footpath reference 37 (E-260/017/0) Approximately
194m of the existing footpath reference 37 (E-260/017/0) between points marked
S-11 and S-2 on sheet 7 of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public rights of
way plan shown with a dashed yellow line. Approximately 198m of proposed
footpath reference PERM37 between the points marked S-11 and S-12 on sheet 7
of 12 of the permanent stopping up of public rights of way plan shown with a
black and white dashed line or as otherwise approved by the relevant highway
authority.

Streets to be temporarily stopped up

Article 12

(1) (2) (3) Area Street to be temporarily stopped up Extent of temporary
stopping up, alteration or diversion District of East Suffolk Private track
Approximately 66m of private track as is within Work No.9 as shown between
reference points 2a and 2b on sheet 2 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk SIZEWELL GAP Approximately 480m of Sizewell Gap as is within Work
No.10 as shown between reference points 3a and 3b on sheet 3 of 12 of the
works plans. District of East Suffolk SIZEWELL GAP Approximately 307m of
Sizewell Gap as is within Work No.15 as shown between reference points 3c and
3d on sheet 3 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk THORPE ROAD
Approximately 164m of Thorpe Road as is within Work No.17 as shown between
reference points 5a and 5b on sheet 5 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk ALDEBURGH ROAD Approximately 93m of Aldeburgh Road as is within
Work No.19 as shown between reference points 5e and 5f on sheet 5 of 12 of the
works plans. District of East Suffolk SLOE LANE Approximately 73m of Sloe Lane
as is within Work No.23 as shown between reference points 6a and 6b on sheet 6
of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1069 (SNAPE ROAD)
Approximately 88m of the B1069 (Snape Road) as is within Work No.26 as shown
between reference points 6c and 6d on sheet 6 of 12 of the works plans.
District of East Suffolk GROVE ROAD Approximately 88m of Grove Road as is
within Work No.26 as shown between reference points 7a and 7b on sheet 7 of 12
of the works plans. District of East Suffolk CHURCH ROAD Approximately 105m of
Church Road as is within Work No.33 as shown between reference points 7f and
7j on sheet 7 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk GROVE ROAD
Approximately 573m of Grove Road as is within Work No.43 as shown between
reference points 8c and 8d on sheet 8 of 12 of the works plans. District of
East Suffolk B1121 (SAXMUNDHAM ROAD) Approximately 269m of the B1121
(Saxmundham Road) as is within Work No.43 as shown between reference points 9a
and 9b on sheet 9 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1121
(SAXMUNDHAM ROAD) Approximately 621m of the B1121 (Saxmundham Road) as is
within Work No.34 as shown between reference points 9b and 9c on sheet 9 of 12
of the works plans. District of East Suffolk A1094 (FARNHAM ROAD)
Approximately 226m of the A1094 (Farnham Road) as is within Work No.35 as
shown between reference points 10a and 10d on sheet 10 of 12 of the works
plans. District of East Suffolk A1094 (ALDEBURGH ROAD) Approximately 525m of
the A1094 (Aldeburgh Road) as is within Work No.35 as shown between reference
points 10b and 10d on sheet 10 of 12 of the works plans. District of East
Suffolk B1121 (ALDEBURGH ROAD) Approximately 84m of the B1121 (Aldeburgh Road)
as is within Work No.35 as shown between reference points 10c and 10d on sheet
10 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk B1069 (SNAPE ROAD)
Approximately 197m of the B1069 (Snape Road) as is within Work No.35 as shown
between reference points 10e and 10f on sheet 10 of 12 of the works plans.
District of East Suffolk A12 (MAIN ROAD) Approximately 680m of the A12 (Main
Road) as is within Work No.36 as shown between reference points 11a and 11b on
sheet 11 of 12 of the works plans. District of East Suffolk A1094 (FRIDAY
STREET) Approximately 469m of the A1094 (Friday Street) as is within Work
No.36 as shown between reference points 11c and 11d on sheet 11 of 12 of the
works plans. District of East Suffolk A12 (MAIN ROAD) Approximately 84m of the
A12 (Main Road) as is within Work No.37 as shown between reference points 12a
and 12b on sheet 12 of 12 of the works plans.

Access to works

Article 13

(1) (2) Area Description of Access District of East Suffolk Vehicular access
to the south from Sizewell Gap and marked at point AC1 on sheet 3 of 12 of the
access to works plan. District of East Suffolk Vehicular access to the south
from Sizewell Gap and marked at point AC2 on sheet 3 of 12 of the access to
works plan. District of East Suffolk Vehicular access to the east and west
from Aldeburgh Road and marked at point AC3 on sheet 5 of 12 of the access to
works plan. District of East Suffolk Vehicular access to the west from Snape
Road and marked at point AC4 on sheet 6 of 12 of the access to works plan.
District of East Suffolk Vehicular access to the northeast from Saxmundham
Road and marked at point AC5 on sheet 9 of 12 of the access to works plan.

Land in which only new rights etc. may be acquired

Article 20

(1) (2) Number of land shown on land plan Purpose for which rights may be
acquired 1, 2 the right to install the cables by the use of directional
drilling or other trenchless techniques only; the right to retain and use the
cables and for the purposes of the transmission of electricity and
telecommunications; the right to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral
support for the cables and jointing installations; a restrictive covenant over
the land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land— to prevent
anything to be done in or upon the land or any part thereof for the purpose of
the erection of any buildings or construction erection or works of any kind
(including the foundations or footings thereto); to prevent anything to be
done by way of hard surfacing of the land with concrete of any kind or with
any other material or surface whatsoever without the consent in writing of the
undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the
proposed surfacing would not cause damage to relevant part of the authorised
project nor make it materially more difficult or expensive to maintain the
authorised project); to prevent anything to be done by way of excavation of
any kind in the land nor any activities which increase or decrease ground
cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever without the consent in writing
of the undertaker save as are reasonably required for agricultural activities
or are required to be carried out by National Grid in order to exercise their
rights in relation to their apparatus (if any) within the land; and to prevent
anything being done which may interfere with free flow and passage of
electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for the
cables. 4, 5, 6 all rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker
and/or those authorised by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and
remain on the land with or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery,
materials, drilling fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment; the
right to carry out terrestrial work activities; the right to install the
cables by the use of directional drilling or other trenchless techniques only;
the right to lay down, construct, install, retain, adjust, alter, test, use,
maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay, connect
into, divert, protect, make safe, make incapable of operation, replace and
remove pipes, cables, conduits, service media or apparatus that are used for
the purposes of transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas,
oil, water supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables,
conduits, service media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); the right to
remove and discharge water from the land; the right to retain and use the
cables, for the purposes of the transmission of electricity and
telecommunications; the right to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral
support for the cables, transition bays and jointing installations; a
restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land— to prevent anything to be done in or upon the land or any part
thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction
erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto);
to prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the land with
concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project); to prevent anything to be
done by way of excavation of any kind in the land nor any activities which
increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever
without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are reasonably
required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried out by
National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their apparatus
(if any) within the land; and to prevent anything being done which may
interfere with free flow and passage of electricity or telecommunications
through the cables or support for the cables, transition bays and jointing
installations. 7 all rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker
and/or those authorised by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and
remain on the land with or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery,
materials, drilling fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment; the
right to carry out terrestrial work activities; the right to install the
cables by way of (but not limited to) digging trenches, the use of directional
drilling, auger boring, thrust boring, micro tunnelling or pipe ramming or
other similar trenchless techniques; the right to lay down, construct,
install, retain, adjust, alter, test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade,
inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay, connect into, divert, protect, make safe,
make incapable of operation, replace and remove— public and private drains,
watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, and to drain into and manage
waterflows in any public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or
culverts including (but not limited to) by way of damming and overpumping;
temporary welfare facilities (including but not limited to portakabins,
portaloos and welfare equipment); cable marker posts to identify the location
of the cables as required for routine integrity testing; pipes, cables,
conduit, service media or apparatus that are used for the purposes of
transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas, oil, water
supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables, conduits, service
media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); hard standing and other surface
materials including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone,
tarmacadam, terram; temporary paths and bridleways for public use; temporary
access roads; temporary haul roads; temporary noise alleviation measures;
temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; supporting or protective
structures (including the bridging over of or protection of the apparatus of
the statutory undertakers); temporary fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other
means of enclosure. the right to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot
and replant trees, shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and
hedges for the purpose of enabling rights to pass and repass and for the
purposes of terrestrial work activities; the right to remove and discharge
water from the land; the right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair,
improve, renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance,
remediation and/or enhancement works; the right to install, execute,
implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees,
woodland, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together
with the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and
landscaping; the right to erect temporary signage and provide measures for the
benefit of public and personnel safety; the right to retain, maintain,
straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for
the purposes of accessing the land, adjoining land and highway; the right to
remove fences, hedges, gates or other barriers during any period during which
terrestrial work activities is to occur (subject to the prior erection of any
temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required) and the replacement,
replanting or re-instatement of fences, hedges or other barriers; the right to
remove, store and stockpile materials (including excavated material) within
the land; the right to remove archaeological artefacts where they would
prevent or cause it to be materially more difficult to undertake terrestrial
work activities or where leaving such archaeological artefacts in situ would
materially increase the cost of the terrestrial work activities; the right to
retain and use the cables, transition bays and jointing installations for the
purposes of the transmission of electricity and telecommunications; the right
to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral support for the cables,
transition bays and jointing installations; a restrictive covenant over the
land for the benefit of the remainder of the Order land— to prevent anything
to be done in or upon the land or any part thereof for the purpose of the
erection of any buildings or construction erection or works of any kind
(including the foundations or footings thereto); to prevent anything to be
done by way of hard surfacing of the land with concrete of any kind or with
any other material or surface whatsoever without the consent in writing of the
undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the
proposed surfacing would not cause damage to relevant part of the authorised
project nor make it materially more difficult or expensive to maintain the
authorised project); to prevent anything to be done by way of excavation of
any kind in the land nor any activities which increase or decrease ground
cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever without the consent in writing
of the undertaker save as are reasonably required for agricultural activities
or are required to be carried out by National Grid in order to exercise their
rights in relation to their apparatus (if any) within the land; to prevent the
planting or growing within the land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood
would not cause damage to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make
it materially more difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the
authorised project); and to prevent anything being done which may interfere
with free flow and passage of electricity or telecommunications through the
cables or support for the cables, transition bays and jointing installations.
11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 25, 27, 28 , 30 , 39, 40, 41, 42, 47, 49, 50, 54, 55,
56, 58, 59, 60, 61, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 69, 70, 74, 80, 82, 83, 85, 92, 93 all
rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker and/or those authorised
by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and remain on the land with
or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery, materials, drilling
fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment; the right to carry out
terrestrial work activities; the right to install the cables by way of (but
not limited to) digging trenches, the use of directional drilling, auger
boring, thrust boring, micro tunnelling or pipe ramming or other similar
trenchless techniques; the right to lay down, construct, install, retain,
adjust, alter, test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, survey,
cleanse, re-lay, connect into, divert, protect, make safe, make incapable of
operation, replace and remove— public and private drains, watercourses,
sewers, ponds or culverts, and to drain into and manage waterflows in any
public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts including
(but not limited to) by way of damming and overpumping; temporary welfare
facilities (including but not limited to portakabins, portaloos and welfare
equipment); cable marker posts to identify the location of the cables as
required for routine integrity testing; pipes, cables, conduit, service media
or apparatus that are used for the purposes of transmitting or distributing
electricity, communications, gas, oil, water supply, sewerage and drainage
(including the pipes, cables, conduits, service media or apparatus of
statutory undertakers); hard standing and other surface materials including
(but not limited to) matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram;
temporary paths and bridleways for public use; temporary access roads;
temporary haul roads; temporary noise alleviation measures; temporary barriers
for the protection of fauna; supporting or protective structures (including
the bridging over of or protection of the apparatus of the statutory
undertakers); temporary fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of
enclosure. the right to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot and
replant trees, shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and hedges
for the purpose of enabling rights to pass and repass and for the purposes of
terrestrial work activities; the right to remove and discharge water from the
land; the right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation
and/or enhancement works; the right to install, execute, implement, retain,
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to
maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping; the right to
erect temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and
personnel safety; the right to retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair,
alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing
the land, adjoining land and highway; the right to remove fences, hedges,
gates or other barriers during any period during which terrestrial work
activities is to occur (subject to the prior erection of any temporary stock
proof fencing as is reasonably required) and the replacement, replanting or
re-instatement of fences, hedges or other barriers; the right to remove, store
and stockpile materials (including excavated material) within the land; the
right to remove archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or cause it
to be materially more difficult to undertake terrestrial work activities or
where leaving such archaeological artefacts in situ would materially increase
the cost of the terrestrial work activities; the right to retain and use the
cables and jointing installations for the purposes of the transmission of
electricity and telecommunications; the right to benefit from continuous
vertical and lateral support for the cables and jointing installations; a
restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land— to prevent anything to be done in or upon the land or any part
thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction
erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto);
to prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the land with
concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project); to prevent anything to be
done by way of excavation of any kind in the land nor any activities which
increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any manner whatsoever
without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are reasonably
required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried out by
National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their apparatus
(if any) within the land; to prevent the planting or growing within the land
of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of the
undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed provided
that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage to the
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project); and to
prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and passage of
electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for the cables
and jointing installations. 67, 69, 70, 80, 82, 83, 85, 86, 88, 93 the right
to pass and repass with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, materials,
drilling fluids, apparatus and equipment to access adjoining land and highway;
the right to retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and
use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing the land, adjoining
land and highway; the right to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot
and replant trees, shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and
hedges for the purposes of enabling rights to pass and repass; the right to
remove and discharge water from the land; the right to erect temporary signage
and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety; the right
to remove fences, hedges, gates or other barriers during any period during
which terrestrial work activities are being undertaken (subject to the prior
erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is reasonably required) and
the replacement, replanting or re-instatement of fences, hedges or other
barriers. 87 the right to lay down, construct, install, retain, adjust, alter,
test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay,
connect into, divert, protect, make safe, make incapable of operation, replace
and remove— temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; temporary paths
and bridleways for public use; temporary access roads; temporary fencing,
gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure. the right to pass and
repass with or without plant, vehicles, machinery, materials, apparatus and
equipment to access adjoining land and highway; the right to place and use
plant, vehicles, machinery, materials, apparatus, equipment and temporary
structures on and within the land; the right to fell, prune, cut, coppice,
alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of
trees, shrubs and hedges; the right to remove and discharge water from the
land; the right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation
and/or enhancement works; the right to install, execute, implement, retain,
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to
maintain, inspect and replant trees, shrubs and landscaping; the right to
erect temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and
personnel safety; the right to remove fences, hedges, gates or other barriers
during any period during which terrestrial work activities in respect of the
authorised project is to occur (subject to the prior erection of any temporary
stock proof fencing as is reasonably required) and the replacement, replanting
or re-instatement of fences, hedges or other barriers; the right to remove,
store and stockpile materials (including excavated material) within the land;
a restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit of the remainder of the
Order land— to prevent anything to be done in or upon the land or any part
thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or construction
erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or footings thereto);
and to prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of the land with
concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface whatsoever without
the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not cause damage to
relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more difficult
or expensive to maintain the authorised project). 115 all rights and
restrictions necessary for the undertaker and/or those authorised by the
undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and remain on the land with or
without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery, materials, drilling fluids,
apparatus, temporary structures and equipment, and to— lay down, construct,
install, retain, adjust, alter, test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade,
inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay, connect into, divert, protect, make safe,
make incapable of operation, replace and remove— electricity poles,
electricity pylons, electricity masts, overhead electricity lines,
telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and apparatus (including
but not limited to the use of scaffolding) and any other works as necessary;
public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, and to
drain into and manage waterflows in any public and private drains,
watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts including (but not limited to) by way
of damming and overpumping; temporary welfare facilities (including but not
limited to portakabins, portaloos and welfare equipment); pipes, cables,
conduit, service media or apparatus that are used for the purposes of
transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas, oil, water
supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables, conduits, service
media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); temporary noise alleviation
measures; temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; supporting or
protective structures (including the bridging over of or protection of the
apparatus of the statutory undertakers); hard standing and other material
(including but not limited to matting, aggregate, trackway, stone, tarmacadam,
terram); temporary access roads; temporary haul roads; temporary paths and
bridleways for public use; fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of
enclosure. retain and use electricity poles, electricity pylons, electricity
masts, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and all ancillary
equipment and apparatus for the purposes of the transmission of electricity
and telecommunications and for any other purpose ancillary to the authorised
project; pass and repass with or without plant, vehicles, machinery,
materials, drilling fluids, apparatus and equipment to access adjoining land
and highway; place and use plant, vehicles, machinery, materials, drilling
fluids, apparatus, equipment and temporary structures on and within the land;
fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and
hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and hedges for the purpose of
enabling rights to pass and repass; fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop,
uproot and replant trees, shrubs and hedges and remove roots of trees, shrubs
and hedges which may obstruct or interfere with electricity poles, electricity
pylons, overhead electricity lines, telecommunications cables and any
ancillary equipment and apparatus (including but not limited to scaffolding);
carry out surveys including for site investigation and environmental surveys
(including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, topographic,
drainage, archaeological, geotechnical, geoenvironmental, ecological and
ground stability site investigations and surveys), making of boreholes, trial
pits and archaeological trenches and field stripping, auger hole sampling and
the taking of soil and other samples; remove and discharge water from the
land; install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, relocate,
maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation and/or enhancement
works; install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove,
relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding and other
ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and replant
such trees, shrubs and landscaping; benefit from continuous vertical and
lateral support for the electricity poles, electricity pylons, overhead
electricity lines, telecommunications cables and any ancillary equipment and
apparatus (including but not limited to scaffolding); erect temporary signage
and provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety; retain,
maintain, straighten, widen, repair, alter, upgrade and use existing access
routes for the purposes of accessing the land, adjoining land and highway;
remove fences, hedges, gates or other barriers during any period during which
terrestrial work activities in respect of the authorised project is to occur
(subject to the prior erection of any temporary stock proof fencing as is
reasonably required) and the replacement, replanting or re-instatement of
fences, hedges or other barriers; remove, store and stockpile materials
(including excavated material) within the land; remove archaeological
artefacts where they would prevent or cause it to be materially more difficult
to undertake terrestrial work activities or where leaving such archaeological
artefacts in situ would materially increase the cost of the terrestrial work
activities; a restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit of the
remainder of the Order land to— to prevent anything to be done in or upon the
land or any part thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings or
construction erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or
footings thereto); to prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of
the land with concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface
whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not
cause damage to relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially
more difficult or expensive to maintain the authorised project); to prevent
anything to be done by way of excavation of any kind in the land nor any
activities which increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any
manner whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are
reasonably required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried
out by National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their
apparatus (if any) within the land; to prevent the planting or growing within
the land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage
to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project);
and to prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and
passage of electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for
the cables, transition bays and jointing installations. 100, 101, 102, 103,
104, 104A, 104B, 104C all rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker
and/or those authorised by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and
remain on the land with or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery,
materials, drilling fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment and
to lay down, construct, install, retain, adjust, alter, test, use, maintain,
repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay, connect into,
divert, protect, make safe, make incapable of operation, replace and remove—
public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, and to
drain into and manage waterflows in any public and private drains,
watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts including (but not limited to) by way
of damming and overpumping; temporary welfare facilities (including but not
limited to portakabins, portaloos and welfare equipment); pipes, cables,
conduits, service media or apparatus that are used for the purposes of
transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas, oil, water
supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables, conduits, service
media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); the right to remove, store and
stockpile materials (including excavated material) within the land; the right
to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot and replant trees, shrubs and
hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and hedges; the right to benefit
from continuous vertical and lateral support for the pipes, cables, conduits,
service media and apparatus installed in, under, or over the land. 43, 46, 57,
72, 77, 95, 96, 97 all rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker
and/or those authorised by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and
remain on the land with or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery,
materials, drilling fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment; the
right to carry out terrestrial work activities; the right to install the
cables by way of (but not limited to) digging trenches, the use of directional
drilling, auger boring, thrust boring, micro tunnelling or pipe ramming or
other similar trenchless techniques; the right to lay down, construct,
install, retain, adjust, alter, test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade,
inspect, survey, cleanse, re-lay, connect into, divert, protect, make safe,
make incapable of operation, replace and remove— public and private drains,
watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts, and to drain into and manage
waterflows in any public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or
culverts including (but not limited to) by way of damming and overpumping;
pipes, cables, conduit, service media or apparatus that are used for the
purposes of transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas,
oil, water supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables,
conduits, service media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); hard standing
and other surface materials including (but not limited to) matting, aggregate,
trackway, stone, tarmacadam, terram; temporary noise alleviation measures;
temporary barriers for the protection of fauna; supporting or protective
structures (including the bridging over of or protection of the apparatus of
the statutory undertakers); temporary fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other
means of enclosure. the right to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot
and replant trees, shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and
hedges for the purpose of enabling rights to pass and repass and for the
purposes of terrestrial work activities; the right to remove and discharge
water from the land; the right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair,
improve, renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance,
remediation and/or enhancement works; the right to erect temporary signage and
provide measures for the benefit of public and personnel safety; the right to
remove archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or cause it to be
materially more difficult to undertake terrestrial work activities or where
leaving such archaeological artefacts in situ would materially increase the
cost of the terrestrial work activities; the right to retain and use the
cables, and jointing installations, for the purposes of the transmission of
electricity and telecommunications; the right to benefit from continuous
vertical and lateral support for the cables and jointing installations. 22,
23, 24 all rights and restrictions necessary for the undertaker and/or those
authorised by the undertaker to enter onto, pass and repass and remain on the
land with or without all necessary plant, vehicles, machinery, materials,
drilling fluids, apparatus, temporary structures and equipment; the right to
carry out terrestrial work activities; the right to install the cables by way
of (but not limited to) digging trenches, the use of directional drilling,
auger boring, thrust boring, micro tunnelling or pipe ramming or other similar
trenchless techniques; the right to lay down, construct, install, retain,
adjust, alter, test, use, maintain, repair, renew, upgrade, inspect, survey,
cleanse, re-lay, connect into, divert, protect, make safe, make incapable of
operation, replace and remove— public and private drains, watercourses,
sewers, ponds or culverts, and to drain into and manage waterflows in any
public and private drains, watercourses, sewers, ponds or culverts including
(but not limited to) by way of damming and overpumping; cable marker posts to
identify the location of the cables as required for routine integrity testing;
pipes, cables, conduit, service media or apparatus that are used for the
purposes of transmitting or distributing electricity, communications, gas,
oil, water supply, sewerage and drainage (including the pipes, cables,
conduits, service media or apparatus of statutory undertakers); temporary
paths and bridleways for public use; temporary access roads; temporary haul
roads; temporary noise alleviation measures; temporary barriers for the
protection of fauna; supporting or protective structures (including the
bridging over of or protection of the apparatus of the statutory undertakers);
temporary fencing, gates, walls, barriers or other means of enclosure. the
right to fell, prune, cut, coppice, alter, lop, uproot and replant trees,
shrubs and hedges, and remove roots of trees, shrubs and hedges for the
purpose of enabling rights to pass and repass and for the purposes of
terrestrial work activities; the right to remove and discharge water from the
land; the right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, relocate, maintain and carry out mitigation, maintenance, remediation
and/or enhancement works; the right to install, execute, implement, retain,
repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodland, shrubs,
hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures together with the right to
maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping; the right to
erect temporary signage and provide measures for the benefit of public and
personnel safety; the right to retain, maintain, straighten, widen, repair,
alter, upgrade and use existing access routes for the purposes of accessing
the land, adjoining land and highway; the right to remove fences, hedges,
gates or other barriers during any period during which terrestrial work
activities is to occur (subject to the prior erection of any temporary stock
proof fencing as is reasonably required) and the replacement, replanting or
re-instatement of fences, hedges or other barriers; the right to remove, store
and stockpile materials (including excavated material) within the land; the
right to remove archaeological artefacts where they would prevent or cause it
to be materially more difficult to undertake terrestrial work activities or
where leaving such archaeological artefacts in situ would materially increase
the cost of the terrestrial work activities; the right to retain and use the
cables for the purposes of the transmission of electricity and
telecommunications; the right to benefit from continuous vertical and lateral
support for the cables; a restrictive covenant over the land for the benefit
of the remainder of the Order land— to prevent anything to be done in or upon
the land or any part thereof for the purpose of the erection of any buildings
or construction erection or works of any kind (including the foundations or
footings thereto); to prevent anything to be done by way of hard surfacing of
the land with concrete of any kind or with any other material or surface
whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker (such consent not
to be unreasonably withheld or delayed if the proposed surfacing would not
cause damage to relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially
more difficult or expensive to maintain the authorised project); to prevent
anything to be done by way of excavation of any kind in the land nor any
activities which increase or decrease ground cover or soil levels in any
manner whatsoever without the consent in writing of the undertaker save as are
reasonably required for agricultural activities or are required to be carried
out by National Grid in order to exercise their rights in relation to their
apparatus (if any) within the land; to prevent the planting or growing within
the land of any trees, shrubs or underwood without the consent in writing of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed
provided that the proposed trees, shrubs or underwood would not cause damage
to the relevant part of the authorised project nor make it materially more
difficult or expensive to access the relevant part of the authorised project);
and to prevent anything being done which may interfere with free flow and
passage of electricity or telecommunications through the cables or support for
the cables.

Modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights and imposition of new restrictions

Article 20

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply as respects compensation on the compulsory
purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without prejudice to the generality of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act
1973  has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraphs (2)
and (3).

2.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 of the 1965 Act as
substituted by paragraph 4—

2.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

2.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  1  , the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

3.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

3.2.5A

If—

3.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) (powers of entry) of the
1965 Act (as modified by paragraph 6 of Schedule 8 to the East Anglia ONE
North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022); and

3.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 9 of Schedule 8
to the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022) to acquire an
interest in the land, and

3.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land where it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

##### Application of the 1965 Act

4

4.1

The 1965 Act has effect with the modifications necessary to make it apply to
the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a right by the creation of a
new right, or to the imposition under this Order of a restrictive covenant, as
it applies to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of land, so that, in
appropriate contexts, references in that Act to land are read (according to
the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or as including
references to—

4.1.a

the right acquired or to be acquired or the restriction is to be imposed; or

4.1.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable.

4.2

Without prejudice to the generality of sub-paragraph (1), Part 1 of the 1965
Act applies in relation to the compulsory acquisition under this Order of a
right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restriction with
the modifications specified in the following provisions of this Schedule.

5

For section 7 of the 1965 Act (measure of compensation in case of severance)
substitute the following section—

5.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner
of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

6

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

6.a

section 9(4) (refusal to convey, failure to make title, etc.);

6.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (conveyance of the land or interest);

6.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

6.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are so modified as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

7

Section 11 of the 1965 Act (powers of entry) is so modified as to secure that,
as from the date on which the acquiring authority has served notice to treat
in respect of any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of
entry required by subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory
acquisition under article  20  (compulsory acquisition of rights)), it has
power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject to equivalent
conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or enforcing
that restrictive covenant (which is deemed for this purpose to have been
created on the date of service of the notice); and sections 11A (powers of
entry: further notices of entry), 11B (counter-notice requiring possession to
be taken on specified date), 12 (unauthorised entry) and 13 (refusal to give
possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act is modified
correspondingly.

8

Section 20 of the 1965 Act (tenants at will, etc.) applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

9

Section 22 of the 1965 Act (interests omitted from purchase) is so modified as
to enable the acquiring authority, in circumstances corresponding to those
referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled to exercise the right
acquired or enforce the restrictive covenant imposed, subject to compliance
with that section as respects compensation.

10

For Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act substitute—

Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

########### Introduction

10.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serve a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part
of a house, building or factory and have not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act as
applied by article  22  (application of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting
Declarations) Act 1981) of the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order
2022in respect of the land to which the notice to treat relates.

10.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

########### Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

10.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

10.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

########### Response to counter-notice

10.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

10.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

10.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

10.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

10.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

10.7

If the acquiring authority decide to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal they must do so within the decision period.

10.8

If the acquiring authority do not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period they are to be treated as if they had served notice of a
decision to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

10.9

If the acquiring authority serve notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

########### Determination by the Upper Tribunal

10.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

10.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

10.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

10.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

10.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

10.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

10.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

10.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

10.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

10.14

10.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

10.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
they must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any
loss or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

10.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

Land of which temporary possession may be taken

Article 26

(1) (2) (3) (4) Area Number of land shown on land plan Purpose for which
temporary possession may be taken Relevant part of the authorised project
District of East Suffolk 1, 2, 4 to 9, 11 to 131, 133 to 136, 144, 146 to 160,
163 to 182 Construction and carrying out of the authorised project Work Nos. 6
to 43 District of East Suffolk 7, 11 to 13, 15, 16, 25, 27, 28, 30, 31, 39 to
43, 47, 49, 50, 54 to 56, 65 to 67, 69, 70, 74, 80, 82, 83, 85, 92, 93, 99,
104, 104A, 104B, 104C, 107 to 116, 119 to 121, 127 to 131, 133 to 135, 144,
146, 147, 152, 153 and 182 Worksites for construction and the carrying out of
the authorised project Work Nos. 8, 9, 11, 13, 15 to 19, 22, 23, 26, 30 to 35
and 37 to 43 District of East Suffolk 8, 9, 16, 29, 31, 34 to 38, 42 to 45,
47, 48, 51 to 54, 56, 58 to 60, 62, 69 to 71, 73, 74, 80, 89 to 93, 95, 96,
108 and 127 Access for carrying out the authorised project Work Nos. 7, 11,
15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 26 and 34 District of East Suffolk 7, 8, 16, 39, 47,
65, 66, 84, 108 to 113 Construction consolidation sites Work Nos. 7, 8, 11,
16, 18, 22, 27, 31 and 42 District of East Suffolk 7, 8, 11 to 16, 22 to 25,
27, 28, 30, 31, 39 to 43, 46, 47, 49, 50, 54 to 61, 63 to 67, 69, 70, 72, 74,
75, 77, 80, 82, 83, 85, 92, 93, 95, 96, 97 107 to 116, 117, 123, 127 to 131,
133, 135, 136, 144, 146, 147, 152, 153, 177 to 180 and 182 Laying of temporary
vehicular access tracks, haul roads, hard standings and improvements to tracks
Work Nos. 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 to 23, 26, 30, 31 32, 34, 35 and 37 to
43 District of East Suffolk 7, 8, 11 to 16, 22 to 27, 28, 30, 39 to 43, 47,
49, 50, 58 to 61, 63 to 67, 69, 78, 79, 80 to 84, 85, 92, 98, 99, 104, 104C,
105 to 116, 127 to 131, 133, 135, 144, 146, 147 and 182 Temporary diversion of
public rights of way Work Nos. 7, 8, 9, 11, 12, 13, 16 to 23, 25, 26, 27, 33
and 37 to 43 District of East Suffolk 26 Creation of habitat for flora and
fauna and other ecological measures Work No. 14 District of East Suffolk 50,
54 and 55 Temporary bridge arrangements over the Hundred River Work No. 19
District of East Suffolk 17 to 21, 32, 33, 76, 117, 122 to 126, 148 to 160,
163 to 180 Clear vegetation to increase the visibility swathes Work Nos. 10,
15, 23 and 34 to 37 District of East Suffolk 8, 8A Temporary water supply Work
No. 7

Protective Provisions

Article 42

##### Protection for electricity, gas, water and sewerage undertakers

###### Application

1

For the protection of the affected undertakers referred to in this part of
this Schedule the following provisions have effect unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the affected undertaker concerned.

2

In this part of this Schedule—

“ affected undertaker ” means any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
(electricity supply) of the 1989 Act (an “electricity undertaker”); a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act 1986  (a
“gas undertaker”); a water undertaker within the meaning of Part 1
(preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991  (a “water undertaker”); and a
sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 (preliminary) of the Water
Industry Act 1991 (a “sewerage undertaker”), for the area of the authorised
development but, for the avoidance of doubt, does not include the undertakers
specified in Part 3, Part 4, Part 5, Part 6, Part 7 or Part 8 of this
Schedule, and in relation to any apparatus, means the undertaker to whom it
belongs or by whom it is maintained; “ alternative apparatus ” means
alternative apparatus adequate to enable the affected undertaker in question
to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner not less efficient than
previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an electricity undertaker,
electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the 1989 Act), belonging to
or maintained by that affected undertaker; in the case of a gas undertaker,
any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas
transporter for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of a water undertaker,
mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that affected
undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a sewerage
undertaker— any drain or works vested in the affected undertaker under the
Water Industry Act 1991; and any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of
a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) of that Act or an
agreement to adopt made under section 104 of that Act, and includes a sludge
main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; and “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land.

###### Precedence of the 1991 Act in respect of apparatus in the streets

3

This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the affected undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### No acquisition etc. except by agreement

4

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

5

5.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this part of this Schedule and any right
of an affected undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker in
question.

5.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the removal of any
apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the affected undertaker in
question written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an affected
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the affected undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

5.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the affected undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
all reasonable endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the
land in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

5.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the affected undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  37  (arbitration).

5.5

The affected undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to
be provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  37  (arbitration), and after the grant to the
affected undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this part of this Schedule.

5.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the affected undertaker in question that it desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land controlled by the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the affected undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the affected undertaker.

5.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 300 millimetres of the apparatus.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

6

6.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to an affected undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and the affected undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  37
(arbitration).

6.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the affected undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that affected undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

7

7.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works of the type
referred to in paragraph 5(2) that are near to, or will or may affect, any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 5(2), the undertaker must submit to the affected undertaker in
question a plan, section and description of the works to be executed.

7.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan, section and
description submitted under sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such
reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by
the affected undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of
the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the affected undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

7.3

Any requirements made by an affected undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan,
section and description under sub-paragraph (1) are submitted to it.

7.4

If an affected undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 6 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 5(2).

7.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan, section and description instead of the
plan, section and description previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the new plan, section
and description.

7.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the affected undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan, section and
description of those works as soon as reasonably practicable subsequently and
must comply with sub-paragraph (2) in so far as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

8

8.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to an affected undertaker the reasonable expenses incurred by that
affected undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal,
alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new
apparatus (including costs or compensation payable in connection with the
acquisition of land for that purpose) which may be required in consequence of
the execution of any such works as are referred to in paragraph 5(2).

8.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

8.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this part of this Schedule—

8.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

8.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  37  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the affected undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

8.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

8.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

8.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

8.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to an affected
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must, if the
works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus
placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the affected
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents
that benefit.

###### Expenses and costs

9

9.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraph 5(2), any damage is
caused to any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not
reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those
works) or property of an affected undertaker, or there is any interruption in
any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by any affected
undertaker, the undertaker must—

9.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that affected undertaker in
making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

9.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that affected undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the affected undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

9.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an affected undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

9.3

An affected undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, shall have the
sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary
to resist the claim or demand.

10

Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an affected
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### Protection for operators of electronic communications code networks

1

1.1

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

1.2

In this part of this Schedule—

“ electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the
same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 2003 Act; “ electronic
communications code network ” means— so much of an electronic communications
network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic communications code
operator as is not excluded from the application of the electronic
communications code by a direction under section 106 (application of the
electronics communications code) of the 2003 Act; and an electronic
communications network which the Secretary of State is providing or proposing
to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a person in
whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a direction under
section 106 of the 2003 Act; “ infrastructure system ” has the same meaning as
in the electronic communications code and references to providing an
infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with paragraph 7 of
that code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an electronic communications
code network.

2

The exercise of the powers of article  28  (statutory undertakers) are subject
to Part 10 of Schedule 3A (the electronics communications code) to the
Communications Act 2003.

3

3.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or their construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

3.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works, or
other property of an operator); or

3.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator, the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the
operator in making good such damage or restoring the supply and must—

3.1.b.i

make reasonable compensation to an operator for loss sustained by it; and

3.1.b.ii

indemnify an operator against claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages and
expenses which may be made or taken against, or recovered from, or incurred
by, an operator by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

3.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

3.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand may be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent,
shall have the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any
proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

3.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this
paragraph must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article  37
(arbitration).

4

This part of this Schedule does not apply to—

4.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

4.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

5

Nothing in this part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### Protection for Anglian Water Services Limited

1

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions of this Schedule
have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
Anglian Water.

2

In this part of this schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in not less efficient a manner
than previously; “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited
(company number 02366656); “ apparatus ” means any works, mains, pipes or
other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes
of water supply and sewerage; and any drain or works vested in Anglian Water
under The Water Industry Act 1991, any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) of The
Water Industry Act 1991 or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 of
that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall and any
manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any
sewer, drain, or works (within the meaning of section 219 of that Act) and any
structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give
access to apparatus. “ functions ” includes powers and duties. “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; and
“ plan ” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method statements.

3

This Part does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations
between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

4

The undertaker must not interfere with, build over or near to any apparatus
within the Order land or execute the placing, installation, bedding, packing,
removal, connection or disconnection of any apparatus, or execute any filling
around the apparatus (where the apparatus is laid in a trench) within the
standard protection strips which are the strips of land falling, the following
distances to either side of the medial line of any apparatus—

4.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

4.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres;

4.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 450 and 750 millimetres;

4.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with Anglian Water, such agreement not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and such provision being brought to the
attention of any agent or contractor responsible for carrying out any work on
behalf of the undertaker.

5

The alteration, extension, removal or re-location of any apparatus may not be
implemented until—

5.a

any requirement for any permits under the Environmental Permitting (England
and Wales) Regulations 2016 or other legislations and any other associated
consents are obtained, and any approval or agreement required from Anglian
Water on alternative outfall locations as a result of such re-location are
approved, such approvals or agreement from Anglian Water not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed; and

5.b

the undertaker has made the appropriate application required under the Water
Industry Act 1991 together with a plan and description of the works proposed
and Anglian Water has agreed all of the contractual documentation required
under the Water Industry Act 1991, such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed; and such works to be executed only in accordance with the
plan and description submitted and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made by Anglian Water without delay for the alteration
or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to
it.

6

In the situation, where in exercise of the powers conferred by the Order, the
undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which apparatus is placed and
such apparatus is to be relocated, extended, removed or altered in any way, no
alteration or extension may take place until Anglian Water has established to
its reasonable satisfaction, contingency arrangements in order to conduct its
functions for the duration of the works to relocate, extend, remove or alter
the apparatus. Anglian Water must use reasonable endeavours to establish
contingency arrangements in a timely manner.

7

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on any plan, the
undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement, and
before extinguishing any existing rights for Anglian Water to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain its apparatus in the Order land, the undertaker
must, with the agreement of Anglian Water, create a new right to use, keep,
inspect, renew and maintain the apparatus that is reasonably convenient for
Anglian Water such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and
to be subject to arbitration under article  37  (arbitration).

8

If the undertaker is unable to create the new rights referred to in paragraph
7 , Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect from the
undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible, use its reasonable endeavours to
obtain the necessary rights.

9

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order the
access to any apparatus is materially obstructed the undertaker must provide
such alternative means of access to such apparatus as enables Anglian Water to
maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

10

If in consequence of the exercise of the powers conferred by the Order,
previously unmapped sewers, lateral drains or other apparatus are identified
by the undertaker, notification of the location of such assets will
immediately be given to Anglian Water and afforded the same protection as
other Anglian Water assets.

11

If for any reason or in consequence of the construction of any of the works
referred to in paragraphs  5  to  7  and  10  above any damage is caused to
any apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works) or
property of Anglian Water, or there is any interruption in any service
provided, or in the supply of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker
must,

11.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good any
damage or restoring the supply; and

11.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs properly and reasonably incurred by Anglian Water

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

12

Nothing in paragraph  11  above imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officer, servants,
contractors or agents.

13

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or
demand pursuant to paragraph  11  and must consider its representations before
proceeding further in respect of the claim or demand.

14

Anglian Water must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate in whole or in
part and to minimise any claim, costs, expenses, loss, demands and penalties
pursuant to paragraph  11 . If requested to do so by the undertaker, Anglian
Water shall provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised

15

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Anglian Water
under this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Anglian Water, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article  37  (arbitration).

##### Protection for National Grid as electricity undertaker

###### Application

1

1.1

For the protection of National Grid, the statutory undertaker referred to in
this Part of this Schedule, the following provisions have effect unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker.

1.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the statutory undertakers, where the benefit of
this Order is transferred or granted to another person under article  5
(benefit of Order)—

1.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between the statutory undertaker and the transferee or grantee
(as the case may be) in all cases where the transfer of the benefit relates to
any specified works; and

1.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to the statutory
undertaker on or before the date of that transfer or grant.

1.3

Without prejudice to paragraph  10(3)(b)  below, sub-paragraph  (2)  does not
apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred or granted to the
statutory undertaker.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
satisfaction of the statutory undertaker to enable the statutory undertaker to
fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;
“ apparatus ” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by the statutory undertaker
together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed
pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of the statutory
undertaker for the purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as
is given to the term “authorised development” in article  2  of this Order and
includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in paragraph  8  of this Part of this Schedule
shall, to the extent that at the relevant time there is subterranean
apparatus, include any below ground surveys or monitoring, ground work
operations or the receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment “
deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of
variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in
order to vary and/or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and
other such interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are
necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner
consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “
maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the following in
relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of the statutory undertaker
including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications,
method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments
and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to
describe and assess the works to be executed; “ parent company ” means a
parent company of the undertaker acceptable to and which shall have been
approved by the statutory undertaker acting reasonably; “ statutory undertaker
” means National Grid Electricity Transmission PLC (Company No. 2366977) whose
registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH, an electricity
undertaker being a licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the
Electricity Act 1989; “ specified works ” means any of the authorised works or
activities undertaken in association with the authorised works which will or
may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph  7(2)  or otherwise; and/or may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph ‎ 6(2)  or otherwise “ undertaker ” means the undertaker as defined
in article  2  of this Order.

3

Except for paragraphs  4  (apparatus of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets),  8  (retained apparatus: protection of National Grid as electricity
undertaker),  9  (expenses) and  10  (indemnity) of this Schedule which apply
in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the Order affecting the
rights and apparatus of the statutory undertaker, the other provisions of this
Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the relations between
the undertaker and the statutory undertaker are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

4

Without prejudice to the generality of any other protection afforded to the
statutory undertaker elsewhere in the Order, where any street is stopped up
under article  10  (public rights of way), if the statutory undertaker has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street the statutory undertaker
will be entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker will grant to the
statutory undertaker, or will procure the granting to the statutory undertaker
of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to the specified statutory
undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping
up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the
undertaker or the statutory undertaker to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph  7 . Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or
diversion of any streets under the powers of articles  11  (temporary stopping
up of public rights of way) and  12  (temporary stopping up of streets), the
statutory undertaker will be at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such stopped up street and/or to execute and do all such
works and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that street.

###### Acquisition of land

5

5.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
acquire any land interest or apparatus or override any easement and/or other
interest of the statutory undertaker otherwise than by agreement.

5.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in paragraph  5 (1) , prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between the statutory undertaker and the
undertaker) that are subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule
that will cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement and/or
other legal or land interest of the statutory undertaker and/or affects the
provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the
statutory undertaker and the undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or
erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker, the undertaker must
as the statutory undertaker reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the statutory
undertaker and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less
favourable on the whole to the statutory undertaker unless otherwise agreed by
the statutory undertaker, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker
to procure and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and
variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land at that
time who are affected by such authorised works.

5.3

The undertaker and the statutory undertaker agree that where there is any
inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of
this Schedule relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus/including
but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such
relocation and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing
easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised
by the statutory undertaker and/or other enactments relied upon by the
statutory undertaker as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Schedule shall prevail.

5.4

Any agreement or consent granted by the statutory undertaker under paragraph
8  or any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, shall not be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph  5 (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

6

6.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph ‎ 5
or in any other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in or
possesses temporarily any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule and any right
of the statutory undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not
be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the statutory undertaker in
question in accordance with sub-paragraph ‎ (2)  to  (5)  inclusive.

6.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the
statutory undertaker advance written notice of that requirement, together with
a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order the statutory
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to the statutory undertaker to
its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph  7(1)  below) the necessary
facilities and rights—

6.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or land secured
by the undertaker; and

6.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

6.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2) , in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, the statutory undertaker must, on receipt
of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
the statutory undertaker to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end
unless it elects to so do.

6.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between the statutory
undertaker and the undertaker.

6.5

The statutory undertaker must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided
or constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to the statutory
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

7

7.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for the statutory undertaker facilities and
rights in land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of
alternative apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those
facilities and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker and must be no less
favourable on the whole to the statutory undertaker than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed unless
otherwise agreed by the statutory undertaker.

7.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
the statutory undertaker under paragraph  7 (1)  above in respect of any
alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are less favourable on the whole to
the statutory undertaker than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in
respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions to which
those facilities and rights are subject in the matter will be referred to
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  14  (Arbitration) of this Part of
this Schedule and the arbitrator shall make such provision for the payment of
compensation by the undertaker to the statutory undertaker as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: Protection of National Grid as electricity undertaker

8

8.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any authorised works that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph  6(2)  or otherwise, the
undertaker must submit to the statutory undertaker a plan of the works to be
executed and seek from the statutory undertaker details of the underground
extent of their electricity tower foundations.

8.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to the statutory undertaker under sub-paragraph ‎ (1)  must include a method
statement and describe—

8.2.a

the exact position of the works;

8.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

8.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

8.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

8.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

8.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

8.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

8.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2) , include a method statement describing—

8.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

8.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

8.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

8.3.d

details of cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

8.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of the cable route;

8.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for the cable,
including frequency and method of access;

8.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by the statutory
undertaker’s engineers;

8.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to 26 tonnes to take
the weight of overhead line construction traffic.

8.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or
(3)  apply until the statutory undertaker has given written approval of the
plan so submitted.

8.5

Any approval of the statutory undertaker required under sub-paragraphs  (2)
or  (3) —

8.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8) ; and,

8.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

8.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3)  apply, the
statutory undertaker may require such modifications to be made to the plans as
may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

8.7

Works to which this paragraph applies must only be executed in accordance with
the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  or as relevant sub-paragraph
(5) , as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and the statutory undertaker and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8)
by the statutory undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the statutory undertaker
will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

8.8

Where the statutory undertaker requires any protective works to be carried out
by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature)
such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and
approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be
carried out to the statutory undertakers’ satisfaction prior to the
commencement of any authorised works (or any relevant part thereof) for which
protective works are required and the statutory undertaker must give 56 days’
notice of such works from the date of submission of a plan pursuant to this
paragraph (except in an emergency).

8.9

If the statutory undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (6)  or  (8)
and in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement,   paragraphs 1 to 3   and ‎5 to ‎7 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph  7(2) .

8.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the authorised works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph shall apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

8.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where
it needs to carry out emergency works as defined in the 1991 Act but in that
case it must give to the statutory undertaker notice as soon as is reasonably
practicable and a plan of those works and must

8.11.a

comply with sub-paragraphs  (6) ,  (7)  and  (8)  insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

8.11.b

comply with sub-paragraph  (12)  at all times.

8.12

At all times when carrying out any works authorised under the Order, the
undertaker must comply with the statutory undertaker’s policies for
development near overhead lines EN43-8 and HSE’s guidance note 6 “Avoidance of
Danger from Overhead Lines”.

###### Expenses

9

9.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to the statutory undertaker on demand all charges, costs and expenses
reasonably anticipated or incurred by the statutory undertaker in, or in
connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new or alternative
apparatus which may be required in consequence of the execution of any
authorised works as are referred to in this Part of this Schedule including
without limitation—

9.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by the
statutory undertaker in connection with the acquisition of rights or the
exercise of statutory powers for such apparatus including without limitation
all costs incurred by the statutory undertaker as a consequence of the
statutory undertaker;

9.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  6(3) ; and/or

9.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory acquisition powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting the statutory undertaker;

9.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

9.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

9.1.d

the approval of plans;

9.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

9.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

9.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

9.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

9.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

9.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  37  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the statutory undertaker by virtue of sub-
paragraph  (1)  will be reduced by the amount of that excess save where it is
not possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at
the same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case
full costs will be borne by the undertaker.

9.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

9.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

9.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

9.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to the
statutory undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
will, if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution
for apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on
the statutory undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for
renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount
which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

10

10.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or
in consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of the statutory undertaker, or there is
any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
the statutory undertaker, or the statutory undertaker becomes liable to pay
any amount to any third party, the undertaker must—

10.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by the statutory
undertaker in making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

10.1.b

indemnify the statutory undertaker for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from
the statutory undertaker, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or the statutory undertaker becoming liable to any third party as
aforesaid other than arising from any default of the statutory undertaker.

10.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the statutory undertaker
on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by the
statutory undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of the statutory
undertaker or under its supervision does not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)
applies), excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of this
sub-paragraph  (1)  unless the statutory undertaker fails to carry out and
execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful and
workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the approved
plan.

10.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

10.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of the statutory undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents; and

10.3.b

any authorised works and/or any other works authorised by this Part of this
Schedule carried out by the statutory undertaker as an assignee, transferee or
lessee of the undertaker with the benefit of the Order pursuant to section 156
of the Planning Act 2008 or article  5  (benefit of the Order) subject to the
proviso that once such works become apparatus (“new apparatus”), any
authorised works yet to be executed and not falling within this sub-paragraph
(3) (b)  will be subject to the full terms of this Part of this Schedule
including this paragraph  10 .

10.4

The statutory undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such third party claim or demand and no settlement or compromise must, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be
made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

11

Save to the extent provided for to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule or by agreement in writing between the statutory undertaker and the
undertaker, nothing in this Part of this Schedule shall affect the provisions
of any enactment or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker
and the statutory undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in
land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

12

12.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
works, the undertaker or the statutory undertaker requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  6(2)  or the statutory undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  8
, the undertaker shall use reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution
of the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic
execution of the authorised development and taking into account the need to
ensure the safe and efficient operation of the statutory undertaker’s
undertaking and the statutory undertaker shall use reasonable endeavours to
co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

12.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the statutory undertaker’s consent,
agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or other
information submitted by the undertaker or the taking of action by the
undertaker, it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

13

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  5(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable the statutory undertaker to maintain
or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such
obstruction.

###### Arbitration

14

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph ‎ 6(2) ,  6(4) ,
7(1) , and  8  any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and
the statutory undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker, be determined by arbitration in accordance with article  37
(arbitration).

###### Notices

15

The plans submitted to the statutory undertaker by the undertaker pursuant to
paragraph  8(1)  must be sent to National Grid Plant Protection at
plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such other address as the statutory
undertaker may from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify
to the undertaker in writing.

##### Protection for East Anglia TWO Limited

1

For the protection of the statutory undertaker, the following provisions of
this Schedule have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and the statutory undertaker.

2

In this part of this schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of the statutory undertaker to enable the statutory
undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means, electric lines or electrical
plant as defined in the 1989 Act, belonging to, maintained by, or to be
constructed by the statutory undertaker; “ cable route disposal area(s) ”
means the disposal site reference(s) provided by the MMO in accordance with
Schedule 14 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act – offshore transmission assets)
to this Order and in the deemed marine licence in accordance with Schedule 14
(deemed licence under the 2009 Act – offshore transmission assets) to the East
Anglia TWO Order; “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering,
replacing, reconstruction, relaying, maintenance, extensions, enlargement and
removal; and “ construct ” and “ constructed ” must be construed accordingly;
“ East Anglia TWO ” means the offshore wind farm to be constructed pursuant to
the East Anglia TWO Order including, whether pursuant to the East Anglia TWO
Order or otherwise, all elements of the connection of the wind farm to the
National Grid at Friston; “ East Anglia TWO Order land ” means the land within
the Order limits defined in the East Anglia TWO Order; “ functions ” includes
powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative
apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus
under, over, across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “maintenance”
include the ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus of the statutory undertaker including
construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “plan”
or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements,
soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents
that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the
specified works to be executed; “ proposed East Anglia TWO cable route ” means
the proposed route for any cables to serve East Anglia TWO as shown on plans
produced to the undertaker by the statutory undertaker pursuant to paragraph
11; “ specified works ” means so much of any works or operations authorised by
this Order (or authorised by any planning permission or marine licence
intended to operate in conjunction with this Order)— as is within the East
Anglia TWO Order land; or is in, on, under, over or within 750 metres of a
proposed East Anglia TWO cable route or existing apparatus seaward of MHWS; “
statutory undertaker ” means, in respect of the order land, and in relation to
any apparatus, the statutory undertaker who owns and/or operates or has the
power to construct the transmission assets under the East Anglia TWO Order.

3

This part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

4

The consent of the statutory undertaker under this Part is not required where
the East Anglia TWO Order has expired without the authorised development
having been commenced pursuant to requirement 1 of Part 3 of Schedule 1
(requirements to the East Anglia TWO Order.

###### Apparatus of undertakers in stopped up streets

5

Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under
the powers of article  12  (temporary stopping up of streets), a statutory
undertaker may be at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across
any such stopped up highway and/or to execute and do all such works and things
in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable
to enable it to construct any apparatus within that highway or maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
highway subject always to the undertaking of works by the undertaker
authorised by the Order.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in the Order or anything shown on the land plan or
contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker must not
acquire any interest in land or any apparatus or override any easement or
other interest of the statutory undertaker otherwise than by agreement, such
agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 6 or
in any other authorised manner, the undertaker acquires any interest in any
land in which any apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed and
any right of a statutory undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land
must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, and
is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the statutory undertaker in
accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5) inclusive.

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under the Order, the undertaker requires
the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to the
statutory undertaker 56 days’ advance written notice of that requirement (or
such lesser period of notice agreed by the statutory undertaker, acting
reasonably), together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed
position of the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in
that case (or if in consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred
by the Order a statutory undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its
apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the
statutory undertaker to their reasonable satisfaction (taking into account
paragraph 8(1) below) the necessary facilities and rights—

7.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker;
and

7.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the statutory undertaker must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the
necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus
is to be constructed except that this obligation does not extend to the
requirement for the statutory undertaker to use its compulsory purchase powers
to this end unless it elects to so do.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker must be
constructed in such manner and in such line or situation as may be reasonably
agreed between the statutory undertaker and the undertaker.

7.5

The statutory undertaker must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided
or constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to the statutory
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions
hereof.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions hereof, the undertaker affords to a
statutory undertaker facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights must be granted upon
such terms and conditions as may be reasonably agreed between the undertaker
and the statutory undertaker and must be no less favourable on the whole to
the statutory undertaker than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in
respect of the apparatus to be removed unless agreed by the statutory
undertaker (acting reasonably).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
the statutory undertaker under paragraph 8(1) above in respect of any
alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the statutory undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that statutory undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection

9

9.1

Not less than 56 days (or such lesser period agreed by the statutory
undertaker, acting reasonably) before commencing the execution of any
specified works authorised by the Order which do not require the removal of
apparatus in accordance with paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must submit to the
statutory undertaker a plan.

9.2

In relation to specified works which will or may be situated on, over, under
or within five metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or involve
embankment works within 5 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to
the statutory undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) must be detailed including a
material statement and describing—

9.2.a

the exact position of the works;

9.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation
and positioning of plant;

9.2.d

the position of all apparatus; and

9.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus.

9.3

The undertaker must not commence the construction or renewal of any specified
works to which sub-paragraph (1) or (2) applies until the statutory undertaker
has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

9.4

Any approval of the statutory undertaker required under sub-paragraph (3)—

9.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5), (7) or (8);

9.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

9.5

In relation to a specified work to which sub-paragraph (1) or (2) applies, the
statutory undertaker may require such modifications to be made to the plans as
may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its system against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus provided that such
modifications are made within a period of 56 days beginning with the date on
which the plan under sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it (or such lesser
period agreed by the statutory undertaker, acting reasonably). For the
avoidance of doubt, provided that any further iterations of the plan submitted
to the statutory undertaker for approval as a result of modifications required
under this paragraph are not materially different to the modifications
previously made by the statutory undertaker, any further required
modifications will be made by the statutory undertaker as soon as reasonably
practicable thereafter and in any event within 21 days of receipt of any
further plans.

9.6

Specified works executed under the Order must be executed only in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant   sub-
paragraph (2) , as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and the statutory undertaker and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (5) or (7) by the
statutory undertaker for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and the statutory undertaker is
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

9.7

Where the statutory undertaker requires any protective works to be carried out
either themselves or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent
nature) such protective works must be carried out to the statutory
undertaker’s satisfaction prior to the carrying out of any specified works
authorised by the Order or any relevant part thereof (unless otherwise agreed
by the statutory undertaker, acting reasonably) and the statutory undertaker
must give notice of such works as soon as reasonably practicable and in any
event within 56 days from the date of submission of a plan in line with sub-
paragraph (1) or (2) (except in an emergency).

9.8

In relation to a specified work to which sub-paragraph (1) or (2) applies, it
is reasonable for a statutory undertaker to require as a condition of granting
approval that the undertaker enter into a cable proximity agreement on
reasonable terms reflecting industry good practice.

9.9

If a statutory undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (5) or (7) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of any specified works (unless otherwise agreed by the statutory
undertaker, acting reasonably), a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

9.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to the statutory
undertaker notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those
works and must comply with sub-paragraph (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Offshore disposals

10

10.1

The undertaker must—

10.1.a

consult the statutory undertaker in relation to any draft disposal plan or
similar which proposes to deposit material within the cable route disposal
area(s) at least 56 days prior to the submission of the draft plan or similar
to the MMO; and

10.1.b

make such amendments as are reasonably requested by the statutory undertaker
within 30 days following receipt of the draft plan by the statutory undertaker
prior to submission of the draft disposal plan or similar to the MMO for
approval.

10.2

Subject to complying with all relevant health and safety considerations, the
undertaker must permit representatives of the statutory undertaker on any
vessel carrying out dredging or disposal activities related to the cable route
disposal area(s) to monitor and verify the dredging and disposal carried out
in terms of location, method, timing, quantity, nature of materials and other
relevant matters.

10.3

Unless otherwise agreed, the undertaker must give at least 21 days’ notice in
writing to the statutory undertaker of the intended departure of all vessels
referred to in sub-paragraph (2) together with written information concerning
the proposed dredging and disposal activities and must comply with all
reasonable requests from the statutory undertaker to enable the verification
referred to in that sub-paragraph to be carried out effectively and
efficiently.

10.4

The undertaker must provide to the statutory undertaker a copy of each
disposal return required to be submitted to the MMO pursuant to the approved
disposal plan or similar under this Order relevant to the cable route disposal
area(s) within ten days of submission to the MMO, such returns to include,
without limitation, the actual volumes of materials disposed of, the disposal
locations, the approved monitoring plan and the results of monitoring
conducted.

###### Provision of information

11

11.1

To ensure its compliance with this Part, the undertaker must before carrying
out any works or operations pursuant to this Order request up-to-date written
confirmation from the statutory undertaker of the precise route of any
existing installed apparatus and any proposed East Anglia TWO cable route or
other apparatus to be installed by the statutory undertaker.

11.2

Within 56 days following receipt of a request under sub-paragraph (1), the
statutory undertaker must provide the requested information to the extent that
such information is available.

###### Expenses

12

12.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to the statutory undertaker on demand all charges, costs and expenses
reasonably and properly incurred by that statutory undertaker in, or in
connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to herein including without limitation—

12.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred or compensation properly paid in connection with
the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers for such
apparatus including without limitation in the event that the statutory
undertaker elects to use powers of compulsory acquisition to acquire any
necessary rights under paragraph 7(3) all costs incurred as a result of such
action;

12.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

12.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

12.1.d

the approval of plans;

12.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

12.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to
herein.

12.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions hereof and which is not re-used
as part of the alternative apparatus, that value being calculated after
removal.

12.3

If in accordance with the provisions hereof—

12.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

12.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article  37  (arbitration) of the Order to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under the provisions hereof exceeding that which would have been involved if
the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or
at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to the statutory undertaker in question by
virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess save
where it is not possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of
operations, capacity, dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case
full costs must be borne by the undertaker.

12.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

12.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

12.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

12.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to the
statutory undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) must,
if the works include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for
apparatus placed more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the
statutory undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for
renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be reduced by the amount
which represents that benefit.

###### Compensation

13

13.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works authorised herein or in consequence of the
construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development
by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of
the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him) in the course of
carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried out by the
undertaker under the provisions herein or any subsidence resulting from any of
these works), any damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus
(other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view
of its intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of the
statutory undertaker, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or
in the supply of any goods, by the statutory undertaker, or the statutory
undertaker becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker
must

13.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by the statutory
undertaker in making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

13.1.b

compensate the statutory undertaker for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from
the statutory undertaker, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or the statutory undertaker becoming liable to any third party in
accordance with the provisions of this part.

13.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the statutory undertaker
on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by the
statutory undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of the statutory
undertaker or under its supervision does not (subject to sub-paragraph (3)),
excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of this paragraph.

13.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the neglect or default of the statutory undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

13.4

The statutory undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without first
consulting the undertaker and considering their representations (such
representations not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Enactments and agreements

14

Nothing herein affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating
the relations between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker in respect
of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the
date on which the Order is made.

###### Co-operation

15

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or the statutory undertaker requires the removal
of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a statutory undertaker makes requirements
for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9 the undertaker
must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of the statutory undertaker’s undertaking and the statutory
undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for
that purpose.

###### Access

16

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 6 or
the powers granted under the Order the access to any apparatus is materially
obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of access to
such apparatus as enables the statutory undertaker to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

17

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
the statutory undertaker, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article  37  (arbitration) of the Order.

##### Protection for East Anglia ONE Offshore Wind Farm and East Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm

1

For the protection of the statutory undertakers referred to in this part of
this Schedule the following provisions have effect unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker concerned.

2

In this part of this schedule—

“ apparatus ” means electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the 1989
Act) belonging to or maintained by the statutory undertaker; “plan” or “ plans
” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; “ specified works ” means works authorised by this Order (or
authorised by any marine licence intended to operate in conjunction with this
Order) that are to be carried out within 750 metres of apparatus belonging to
a statutory undertaker; and “ statutory undertaker ” means, as appropriate—
the statutory undertaker who owns and/or operates the transmission assets
under the East Anglia ONE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2014 ; the statutory
undertaker who owns and/or operates the transmission assets under the East
Anglia THREE Offshore Wind Farm Order 2017 .

3

3.1

Not less than 56 days (or such lesser period agreed by the statutory
undertaker, acting reasonably) before commencing the execution of any
specified works, the undertaker must submit to the statutory undertaker a
plan.

3.2

The undertaker must not commence the construction or renewal of any works to
which sub-paragraph (1) applies until the statutory undertaker has given
written approval of the plan so submitted.

3.3

Any approval of the statutory undertaker required under sub-paragraph (2)—

3.3.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (4), (6) or (7);

3.3.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

3.4

In relation to a work to which sub-paragraph (1) applies, the statutory
undertaker may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its system against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus provided that such
modifications are made within a period of 56 days beginning with the date on
which the plan under sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it (or such lesser
period agreed by the statutory undertaker, acting reasonably). For the
avoidance of doubt, provided that any further iterations of the plan submitted
to the statutory undertaker for approval as a result of modifications required
under this paragraph are not materially different to the modifications
previously made by the statutory undertaker, any further required
modifications will be made by the statutory undertaker as soon as reasonably
practicable thereafter and in any event within 21 days of receipt of any
further plans.

3.5

Specified works executed under this Order must be executed only in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1), as amended from time to time
by agreement between the undertaker and the statutory undertaker and in
accordance with such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with
sub-paragraph (4) or (6) by the statutory undertaker for the alteration or
otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it,
and the statutory undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the execution of
those works.

3.6

Where the statutory undertaker requires any protective works to be carried out
either themselves or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent
nature) such protective works must be carried out to the statutory
undertaker’s satisfaction prior to the carrying out of any specified works
authorised by this Order or any relevant part thereof (unless otherwise agreed
by the statutory undertaker, acting reasonably) and the statutory undertaker
must give notice of such works as soon as reasonably practicable and in any
event within 56 days from the date of submission of a plan in line with sub-
paragraph (1) (except in an emergency).

3.7

In relation to a specified work to which sub-paragraph (1) applies, it is
reasonable for a statutory undertaker to require as a condition of granting
approval that the undertaker enter into a cable proximity agreement on
reasonable terms reflecting industry good practice.

3.8

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of any works (unless otherwise agreed by the statutory undertaker,
acting reasonably), a new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the
new plan.

3.9

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to the statutory
undertaker notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those
works and must comply with sub-paragraph (4) and (6) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses

4

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to the statutory undertaker on demand all charges, costs and expenses
reasonably and properly incurred by that statutory undertaker in, or in
connection with, the inspection, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new apparatus which may be required in consequence of
the execution of any such works as are referred to herein including without
limitation—

4.a

the approval of plans;

4.b

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

4.c

the survey of apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of works or
the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably necessary in
consequence of the execution of any such works referred to herein.

###### Compensation

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works authorised herein or in consequence of the
construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the authorised development
by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any act or default of
the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by the undertaker) in the
course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works carried
out by the undertaker under the provisions herein or any subsidence resulting
from any of these works), any damage is caused to any apparatus of the
statutory undertaker, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or
in the supply of any goods, by the statutory undertaker, or the statutory
undertaker becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker
must

5.1.a

bear and pay on demand the cost reasonably incurred by the statutory
undertaker in making good such damage or restoring the supply; and

5.1.b

compensate the statutory undertaker for any other expenses, loss, demands,
proceedings, damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from
the statutory undertaker, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or the statutory undertaker becoming liable to any third party in
accordance with the provisions of this part.

5.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by the statutory undertaker
on behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by the
statutory undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of the statutory
undertaker or under its supervision does not (subject to sub-paragraph (3)),
excuse the undertaker from liability under the provisions of this paragraph.

5.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the neglect or default of the statutory undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

5.4

The statutory undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without first
consulting the undertaker and considering their representations (such
representations not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Co-operation

6

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, a statutory undertaker makes requirements for the protection or
alteration of apparatus under paragraph 3 the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
the statutory undertaker’s undertaking and the statutory undertaker must use
its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

###### Arbitration

7

Any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and the statutory
undertaker must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and
the statutory undertaker, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article  37  (arbitration) of the Order.

##### Protection for EDF Energy

###### Application

1

For the protection of EDF Energy the following provisions of this Schedule
shall have effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker
and EDF Energy.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ EDF Energy ” means EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Limited (company number
03076445); “ HDD punch out ” means the location where the drilling bit
associated with the HDD exits out of the pilot hole on the seabed; “ utility
apparatus ” includes water mains, pipes, electricity or telecommunication
cables, or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by a statutory
undertaker.

###### Interaction at Sizewell Gap

3

3.1

The undertaker shall consult with EDF Energy in the preparation of the
Sizewell Gap construction method statement prior to submission of the Sizewell
Gap construction method statement to the relevant planning authority for
approval in accordance with requirement 22.

3.2

The undertaker shall consult with EDF Energy in the preparation of—

3.2.a

the access management plan, to the extent that it relates to Work Nos. 10, 11
or 15; and

3.2.b

the construction traffic management plan, to the extent that it relates to
Work Nos. 10 or 15,

prior to the submission of each plan to the relevant highway authority for
approval in accordance with requirements 16 and 28 respectively.

3.3

Prior to carrying out any of Work Nos. 10, 11 and or 15, the undertaker shall
carry out surveys to establish the location of all utility apparatus within
these areas which has the potential to provide services to EDF Energy.

3.4

In the event of any damage to any utility apparatus which provides services to
EDF Energy within the area of Work Nos. 10, 11 and 15, the undertaker shall
immediately inform EDF Energy and shall use best endeavours to secure the
repair of any damage within 24 hours.

###### Quality of Sizewell B cooling water intake

4

4.1

Save for urgent reasons of vessel safety which mean there is insufficient time
to comply with this sub-paragraph, in which case the undertaker shall use its
reasonable endeavours to contact EDF Energy immediately to inform of non-
compliance by a mechanism previously agreed in writing with EDF Energy, all
operations carried out by the undertaker must avoid the area labelled
“Sizewell B Tidally Restricted Shallow Water Area / Vessel Transit and Loading
Exclusion Zone” and coloured purple on the Activity Exclusion Zones plan
(Drawing No. EA1N-DEV-DRG-IBR-001260).

4.2

Sub-paragraph (1) applies unless EDF Energy otherwise agrees in writing either
a modification of the procedure described above or an alternative protective
measure and that alternative method is shown to be of no greater risk to the
Sizewell B intake and its function (such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

###### Coralline Crag

5

5.1

The undertaker shall consult with EDF Energy in the preparation of the
landfall construction method statement prior to submission of the landfall
construction method statement to the relevant planning authority for approval
in accordance with requirement 13.

5.2

Prior to carrying out Work No. 6, the undertaker shall carry out geophysical
surveys to confirm the visible extent of the Coralline Crag formation and
shall provide the results of such surveys to the extent that they demonstrate
the visible extent of the Coralline Crag to EDF Energy on completion.

5.3

The undertaker must not undertake cable trenching activities or locate the HDD
punch out within—

5.3.a

the Punch Out and Trenching Restriction Area shown on the Activity Exclusion
Zones plan (Drawing No. EA1N-DEV-DRG-IBR-001260); or

5.3.b

the visible extent of the Coralline Crag as confirmed by the surveys
undertaken under sub-paragraph (2),

unless otherwise agreed with EDF Energy (such agreement not to be unreasonably
withheld or delayed).

###### Arbitration

6

Any difference or dispute arising between EDF Energy and the undertaker must,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between EDF Energy and the undertaker, be
determined by arbitration in accordance with article  37  (arbitration) of the
Order.

##### Protection of NNB Generation Company (SZC) Limited

###### Application

1

For the protection of SZC Co. the following provisions of this Schedule have
effect unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and SZC Co.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“SZC Co.” means NNB Generation Company (SZC) Limited (company number
09284825).

###### Interaction at Sizewell Gap

3

The undertaker shall consult with SZC Co. in the preparation of the Sizewell
Gap construction method statement, to the extent that it relates to Work No.
15, prior to submission of the Sizewell Gap construction method statement to
the relevant planning authority for approval in accordance with requirement
22.

###### Interaction at Snape Road

4

The undertaker shall consult with SZC Co. in the formulation of the proposed
method of working and timing of execution of works within the area of Work No.
35, prior to Work No. 35 commencing.

###### Interaction at Friday Street

5

The undertaker shall consult with SZC Co. in the formulation of the proposed
method of working and timing of execution of works within the area of Work No.
36, prior to Work No.36 commencing.

###### Sizewell C proposed intake infrastructure

6

6.1

Save for urgent reasons of vessel safety and subject to sub-paragraph (2), the
undertaker shall not carry out any of the authorised project (including the
placement temporary or otherwise of anchors or moorings) within the area
labelled “Overlap of Sizewell C Order limits with East Anglia ONE North Order
limits” and hatched purple on the Sizewell C Order Limits Interaction –
Offshore Plan (Drawing No. EA1N-DEV-DRG-IBR-001283) without having first
submitted to and secured approval from SZC Co. details of the proposed method
of working within these areas (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld
or delayed) and thereafter the undertaker shall implement the authorised
project in full accordance with such approved details.

6.2

Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent the passage of vessels within the area
specified in sub-paragraph (1) prior to the construction of any works within
that location by SZC Co. at any time.

###### Acquisition of land

7

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not, to
the extent that the exercise of such powers relates to the carrying out of
Work Nos. 15, 35 or 36, acquire any land interest or rights or impose
restrictive covenants over land belonging to SZC Co. and may not override or
extinguish any easement and/or other rights or interests of SZC Co. otherwise
than by agreement.

###### Arbitration

8

Any difference or dispute arising between SZC Co. and the undertaker must,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between SZC Co. and the undertaker, be
determined by arbitration in accordance with article  37  (arbitration) of the
Order.

Hedgerows

Article 34

##### Removal of important hedgerows

(1) (2) Area Reference of hedgerow District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 3 on sheet 1 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 10 on sheet 3 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 11 on sheet
3 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 12 on sheet 3 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 15 on sheet 4 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 17 on sheet 4 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 19 on sheet 5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 21 on sheet
5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 26 on sheet 6 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 27 on sheet 6 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 28 on sheet 6 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 29 on sheet 6 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 30 on sheet
6 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 35 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 36 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 37 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 38 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 39 on sheet
7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 40 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 41 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 42 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 43 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 44 on sheet
7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 45 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 46 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 47 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 48 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 49 on sheet
7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 50 on sheet 7 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 51 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 52 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 54 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 56 on sheet
8 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 57 on sheet 8 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 58 on sheet 8 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 60 on sheet 7 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 61 on sheet 9 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 62 on sheet
9 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 63 on sheet 9 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 64 on sheet 9 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 65 on sheet 9 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 66 on sheet 9 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan.

##### Important hedgerows that will be crossed using a reduced working width

(1) (2) Area Reference of hedgerow District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 1 on sheet 1 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 2 on sheet 1 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 4 on sheet
2 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 6 on sheet 2 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 7 on sheet 2 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 8 on sheet 3 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 9 on sheet 3 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 14 on sheet
4 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 16 on sheet 4 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 18 on sheet 4 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 20 on sheet 5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow
marked 22 on sheet 5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation
order plan. District of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 23 on sheet
5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District
of East Suffolk The important hedgerow marked 24 on sheet 6 of 12 of the
important hedgerows and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk
The important hedgerow marked 31 on sheet 6 of 12 of the important hedgerows
and tree preservation order plan. District of East Suffolk The important
hedgerow marked 32 on sheet 6 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree
preservation order plan.

Trees subject to tree preservation orders

Article 35

(1) (2) (3) (4) Area Type of tree Reference of trees Work to be carried out
District of East Suffolk Several mixed deciduous and coniferous species
consisting mainly of Silver Birch, Oak, Beech, Sycamore, Horse Chestnut,
Cherry, Scots Pine, Corsican Pine, mixed Ornamental Conifers and Evergreen
Oak. Tree Preservation Order 1987, Area Number A1, TPO Number SCDC/87/00030
marked on sheet 5 of 12 of the important hedgerows and tree preservation order
plan. Removal, trimming, lopping and coppicing of trees within Tree
Preservation Order 1987, Area Number A1, TPO Number SCDC/87/00030 to be
carried out to facilitate the construction of the authorised development and
to ensure its future operation.

Deemed licence under the 2009 Act - generation assets

Article 31

##### Licensed marine activities

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine
and Coastal Access Act 2009; “ the 2017 Offshore Regulations ” means the
Conservation of Offshore Marine Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ the
2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations
2017 ; “ air clearance height ” means the distance between the lowest point of
the rotating blade of the wind turbine generator and MHWS; “ authorised
deposits ” means the substances and articles specified in paragraph 4 of Part
1 of this licence; “ authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 1 to 4 described in
paragraph 3 of Part 1 of this licence or any part of that work; “ best
practice protocol for minimising disturbance to red-throated diver ” means the
document certified as the best practice protocol for minimising disturbance to
red-throated diver by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order
under article 36; “ buoy ” means any floating device used for navigational
purposes or measurement purposes, including LiDAR buoys, wave buoys and guard
buoys; “ cable crossings ” means the crossing of existing sub-sea cables or
pipelines or other existing infrastructure by the platform link or export
cables authorised by the Order together with physical protection measures
including cable protection; “ cable protection ” means measures to protect
cables from physical damage and including, but not limited to, the use of
bagged solutions filled with grout or other materials, protective aprons or
coverings, mattresses, flow energy dissipation devices or rock and gravel
burial; “ Cefas ” means the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture
Science or any successor body to its function; “ commence ” means the first
carrying out of any licensed marine activities authorised by this licence,
save for operations consisting of offshore preparation works or
pre–construction monitoring surveys approved under this licence and the words
“commencement” and “ commenced ” must be construed accordingly; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 2 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands,
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 36; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised to carry
out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of Part 4 (marine licensing) of the
2009 Act; “ environmental statement ” means the document certified as the
environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article 36; “ European offshore marine site ” has the meaning
given in regulation 18 of the 2017 Offshore Regulations; “ European site ” has
the meaning given in regulation 27 of the 2017 Offshore Regulations; “ gravity
base foundation ” means a structure principally of steel, concrete, or steel
and concrete which rests on the seabed either due to its own weight with or
without added ballast or additional skirts and associated equipment including
scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platforms
and equipment; “ Historic England ” means the Historic Buildings and Monuments
Commission for England; “ in principle monitoring plan ” means the document
certified as the in principle monitoring plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of the Order under article 36; “ in principle East Anglia ONE
North Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan ” means the document
certified as the in principle East Anglia ONE North Project Southern North Sea
SAC Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article 36; “ inter-array cable ” means the cables linking the
wind turbine generators to each other and to the offshore electrical platforms
and described in paragraph (c) of Work No. 1; “ jacket foundation ” means a
steel jacket/lattice-type structure constructed of steel which is fixed to the
seabed at three or more points with steel pin piles or steel suction buckets
and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ JNCC Guidance ”
means the statutory nature conservation body ‘Guidance for assessing the
significance of noise disturbance against Conservation Objectives of harbour
porpoise SACs’ Joint Nature Conservation Committee Report No.654, May 2020
published in June 2020 as amended, updated or superseded from time to time; “
Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the bulletin published by the Humber
Seafood Institute or such other alternative publication approved in writing by
the MMO for the purposes of this licence; “ LAT ” means lowest astronomical
tide; “ layout principles statement ” means the document certified as the
layout principles statement by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article 36; “ licence 2 (transmission) ” means the licence set out
in Schedule 14 (deemed licence under the 2009 Act – offshore transmission
assets); “ licensed activities ” means the activities specified in Part 1 of
this licence; “ maintain ” includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter
and further includes remove, reconstruct and replace (but only in relation to
any of the ancillary works in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works) to the
Order and any component part of any wind turbine generator, offshore
electrical platform, construction, operation and maintenance platform or
meteorological mast described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development)
to the Order not including the alteration, removal or replacement of
foundations), to the extent assessed in the environmental statement; and
“maintenance” must be construed accordingly; “mean high water springs” or “
MHWS ” means the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a
period of time; “ meteorological mast ” means a mast housing equipment to
measure wind speed and other wind characteristics, including a topside housing
electrical, communication and associated equipment and marking and lighting;
“Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO ” means the body created under the
2009 Act which is responsible for the monitoring and enforcement of this
licence; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and Coastguard Agency; “ monopile
foundation ” means a steel pile, typically cylindrical, driven and/or drilled
into the seabed and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes,
corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ offshore
electrical platform ” means a platform with one or more decks, whether open or
fully clad, accommodating electrical power transformers, low, medium and/or
high voltage switch gear, instrumentation, protection and control systems,
neutral earthing resistors, reactive compensation, standby electrical
generation equipment, fuelling facilities, auxiliary and uninterruptible power
supply systems and transformers, accommodation, emergency shelter, craneage,
metering stations, meteorological equipment, helicopter landing facilities,
messing facilities, potable water storage, black water separation equipment,
control hub, drainage facilities, access equipment, J-tubes, marking and
lighting and other associated equipment and facilities to enable the
transmission of electronic communications and for electricity to be collected
at, and exported from, the platform; “ offshore Order limits ” means the
limits shown on the works plans within which the authorised scheme may be
carried out; “ offshore platforms ” means the construction, operation and
maintenance platform and the offshore electrical platforms; “ offshore
preparation works ” means surveys, monitoring and UXO clearance activities
seaward of MHWS undertaken prior to the commencement of construction to
prepare for construction; “ the Order ” means the East Anglia ONE North
Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “ outline fisheries liaison and coexistence
plan ” means the document certified as the outline fisheries liaison and
coexistence plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under
article 36; “ outline navigation monitoring strategy ” means the document
certified as the outline navigation monitoring strategy by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of the Order under article 36; “ outline offshore
operations and maintenance plan ” means the document certified as the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order under article 36; “outline  Sabellaria  reef management
plan” means the document certified as the outline  Sabellaria  reef management
plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article 36;
“ outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) ” means the document
certified as the outline written scheme of investigation (offshore) by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article 36; “ pin piles
” means steel cylindrical piles driven and/or drilled into the seabed to
secure steel jacket foundations; “ platform link cables ” means the cables
linking offshore platforms to one another and described in Work No. 4; “
relevant site ” means a European offshore marine site or a European site; “
SAC ” means special area of conservation; “ statutory historic body ” means
Historic England or its successor in function; “ statutory nature conservation
body ” means the appropriate nature conservation body as defined in regulation
5 of the 2017 Regulations; “ suction caisson ” means large diameter steel
cylindrical shells which penetrate the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic
pressure differential for securing steel jacket foundations; “ suction caisson
foundation ” means a tubular steel structure which penetrates the seabed
assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential and associated equipment,
including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access
platform(s) and equipment; “ Trinity House ” means the Corporation of Trinity
House of Deptford Strond; “ undertaker ” means East Anglia ONE North Limited
(company number 11121800); “ vessel ” means every description of vessel,
however propelled or moved, and includes a non-displacement craft, a personal
watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the water, a hydrofoil vessel, a
hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and any other thing constructed or
adapted for movement through, in, on or over water and which is at the time
in, on or over water; “ UK Hydrographic Office ” means the UK Hydrographic
Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset, TA1 2DN; “ UXO ” means unexploded
ordnance; “ wind turbine generator ” means a structure comprising a tower,
rotor with three blades connected at the hub, nacelle and ancillary electrical
and other equipment which may include J-tube(s), transition piece, access and
rest platforms, access ladders, boat access systems, corrosion protection
systems, fenders and maintenance equipment, helicopter landing facilities and
other associated equipment, fixed to a foundation; and “ works plans ” means
the plans certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT);

1.3.b

all coordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary point of contact with the organisations listed below and the address
for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing Team

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Marine Environment Team

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 0208 026 6094;

1.4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

1.4.f

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.g

Historic England

Brooklands

24 Brooklands Avenue

Cambridge

CB2 8BU

Tel: 01223 582749.

###### Details of licensed marine activities

2

Subject to the licence conditions, this licence authorises the undertaker (and
any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out the following
licensable marine activities under section 66(1) (licensable marine
activities) of the 2009 Act—

2.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 4
below;

2.b

the construction of works in or over the sea or on or under the sea bed;

2.c

dredging for the purposes of seabed preparation for foundation works and cable
laying preparation works;

2.d

debris clearance works;

2.e

boulder clearance works either by displacement ploughing or subsea grab
technique or other equivalent method;

2.f

UXO clearance works;

2.g

the removal of out of service cables;

2.h

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation; and

2.i

the disposal of up to 2,832,568 m 3  of inert material of natural origin
and/or dredged material within the offshore Order limits produced during
construction drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works, sandwave
clearance and boulder clearance works at disposal site reference(s) to be
provided by the MMO within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS
comprising—

2.i.i

1,590,036 m 3  in respect of the wind turbine generators;

2.i.ii

400,000 m 3  in respect of the inter-array cables;

2.i.iii

23,732 m 3  in respect of the meteorological mast;

2.i.iv

668,800 m 3  in respect of the construction, operation and maintenance
platform and the offshore electrical platforms (some of which may
alternatively be disposed under licence 2 (transmission)); and

2.i.v

150,000 m 3  in respect of the platform link cables (some of which may
alternatively be disposed under licence 2 (transmission)).

3

3.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of—

3.2

Work No. 1—

3.2.a

an offshore wind turbine generating station with a gross electrical output
capacity of over 100 MW comprising up to 67 wind turbine generators each fixed
to the seabed by one of five foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on
suction caissons, jacket on piles, suction caisson or gravity base), fitted
with rotating blades and situated within the area shown on the works plans and
further comprising (b) to (c) below;

3.2.b

up to one meteorological mast fixed to the seabed within the area shown on the
works plans by one of five foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on
suction caissons, jacket on piles, suction caisson or gravity base); and

3.2.c

a network of subsea inter-array cables within the area shown on the works
plans between the wind turbine generators and between the wind turbine
generators and Work No. 3 for the transmission of electricity and electronic
communications including one or more cable crossings.

3.3

Work No. 2 — up to one construction, operation and maintenance platform fixed
to the seabed within the area shown on the works plans by one of four
foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles
or gravity base) (which may alternatively be constructed under licence 2
(transmission));

3.4

Work No. 3 — up to four offshore electrical platforms fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plans by one of four foundation types
(namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles or gravity base)
(which may alternatively be constructed under licence 2 (transmission));

3.5

Work No. 4 — a network of subsea platform link cables within the area shown on
the works plans between the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work No.
3 and between the construction, operation and maintenance platform comprising
Work No. 2 and the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work No. 3 for the
transmission of electricity and electronic communications including one or
more cable crossings (which may alternatively be constructed under licence 2
(transmission));

3.6

In connection with such Work Nos. 1 to 4 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement,
including—

3.6.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

3.6.b

cable protection measures such as rock placement and the placement of concrete
mattresses and frond mattresses;

3.6.c

dredging;

3.6.d

the removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work
Nos. 1 to 4 and the disposal of seabed sediments produced during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for the installation of the foundations of the
offshore structures or during seabed preparation for cable laying;

3.7

In connection with such Work Nos. 1 to 4, ancillary works within the Order
limits which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment recorded
in the environmental statement comprising—

3.7.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

3.7.b

marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works.

4

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

4.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

4.b

stone and rock;

4.c

concrete;

4.d

sand and gravel;

4.e

plastic and synthetic;

4.f

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works and sandwave clearance
works; and

4.g

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

5

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude Longitude 1 52° 21 40.240N 02° 18 57.351E 2 52° 22 49.082N 02°
18 20.131E 3 52° 25 41.851N 02° 18 38.726E 4 52° 26 07.817N 02° 19 55.691E 5
52° 25 47.948N 02° 34 14.117E 6 52° 20 33.278N 02° 34 13.789E 7 52° 20 19.052N
02° 28 56.310E 8 52° 18 11.924N 02° 20 49.771E 9 52° 21 07.976N 02° 19 14.783E

6

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 of the 2004 Act, including any modification to the
programme under section 108, and the completion of such programme has been
confirmed by the Secretary of State in writing.

7

The provisions of section 72 of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that
the provisions of section 72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the
licence only apply to a transfer not falling within article  5  (benefit of
the Order).

8

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this licence, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

9

Any amendments to the details, plan or scheme must be in accordance with the
principles and assessments set out in the environmental statement, and
approval for an amendment may be given only where it has been demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the MMO that the amendment is unlikely to give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
assessed in the environmental statement.

10

Notwithstanding the grid coordinates specified at paragraph 5 and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary shown on the work plans referred to
in this Part, no part of Work No. 1(a) or Work No. 1(b) as described in
paragraph 3, may be carried out if it falls within 8 kilometres of the
boundary of the Outer Thames Estuary Special Protection Area.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), wind turbine generators forming part of the
authorised scheme must not—

1.1.a

exceed a height of 282 metres when measured from LAT to the tip of the
vertical blade;

1.1.b

exceed a height of 175 metres to the height of the centreline of the generator
shaft forming part of the hub when measured from LAT;

1.1.c

exceed a rotor diameter of 250 metres;

1.1.d

be less than 800 metres from the nearest wind turbine generator in either
direction perpendicular to the approximate prevailing wind direction
(crosswind) or be less than 1,200 metres from the nearest wind turbine
generator in either direction which is in line with the approximate prevailing
wind direction (downwind);

1.1.e

have an air clearance height of less than 24 metres from MHWS.

1.2

References to the location of a wind turbine generator in sub-paragraph (1)
above, are references to the centre point of that turbine.

2

2.1

The total number of meteorological masts forming part of the authorised scheme
must not exceed one.

2.2

The meteorological mast must not exceed a height of 175 metres above LAT.

3

3.1

The total number of construction, operation and maintenance platforms forming
part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 2
(transmission) taken together must not exceed one (whether constructed under
this licence or licence 2 (transmission)).

3.2

The dimensions of the construction, operation and maintenance platform forming
part of the authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes)
must not exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in
length and 50 metres in width.

4

4.1

The total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 2 (transmission) taken
together must not exceed four (whether constructed under this licence or
licence 2 (transmission)).

4.2

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platform forming part of the
authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in length and 50
metres in width.

5

The total length of the cables forming part of the authorised scheme and the
authorised scheme in licence 2 (transmission) and the volume and area of their
cable protection must not exceed the following (whether installed under this
licence or licence 2 (transmission))—

Work Length Area of cable protection Volume of cable protection Work No. 1(c)
(inter-array cables) 200 kilometres 210,800 m 2 237,008 m 3 Work No. 4
(platform link cables) 75 kilometres 130,390 m 2 146,650 m 3

6

6.1

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each gravity base foundation must not
have a diameter at the level of the seabed which is more than 60 metres;

6.2

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each suction caisson foundation must
not have a diameter at the level of the seabed which is more than 35 metres;

6.3

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each jacket foundation must not have—

6.3.a

a pile diameter which is more than 4.6 metres in the case of pin piles or a
suction caisson diameter which is more than 16 metres;

6.3.b

more than four piles or more than four suction caissons;

6.3.c

more than four legs.

6.4

In relation to a wind turbine generator, each monopile foundation must not
have a diameter which is more than 15 metres.

6.5

The total amount of scour protection for the wind turbine generators must not
exceed 1,348,686 m 2 .

6.6

The total volume of scour protection for the wind turbine generators must not
exceed 2,023,029 m 3 .

7

7.1

In relation to a meteorological mast, each gravity base foundation must not
have a footprint at the seabed which is more than 315 m 2 .

7.2

In relation to a meteorological mast, each suction caisson foundation must not
have a footprint at seabed which is more than 177 m 2 .

7.3

In relation to a meteorological mast, each jacket foundation must not have a
footprint at the seabed which is more than 651 m 2 .

7.4

In relation to a meteorological mast, each monopile foundation must not have a
footprint at the seabed which is more than 51 m 2 .

7.5

The total amount of scour protection for the meteorological mast must not
exceed 2,828 m 2 .

7.6

The total volume of scour protection for the meteorological mast must not
exceed 4,241 m 3 .

8

8.1

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
gravity base foundations must not have a total footprint of more than 4,800 m
2 .

8.2

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
jacket foundations must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more
than 5,676 m 2 .

8.3

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
monopile foundation must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is
more than 177 m 2 .

8.4

The total amount of scour protection for the construction, operation and
maintenance platform forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised
scheme in licence 2 (transmission) must not exceed 15,276 m 2  (whether
installed under this licence or licence 2 (transmission)).

8.5

The total volume of scour protection for the construction, operation and
maintenance platform forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised
scheme in licence 2 (transmission) must not exceed 22,914 m 3  (whether
installed under this licence or licence 2 (transmission)).

9

9.1

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the gravity base foundations
must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 4,800 m 2 .

9.2

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the jacket foundations must
not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 5,676 m 2 .

9.3

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the monopile foundation must
not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 177 m 2 .

9.4

The total amount of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 2
(transmission) must not exceed 62,064 m 2  (whether installed under this
licence or licence 2 (transmission)).

9.5

The total volume of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 2
(transmission) must not exceed 91,656 m 3  (whether installed under this
licence or licence 2 (transmission)).

###### Notifications and inspections

10

10.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

10.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

10.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition 19
and

10.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 19;

10.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must confirm receipt of this licence in writing to the
MMO.

10.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 19 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

10.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

10.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

10.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

10.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

10.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

10.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

10.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to UXO clearance activities and at least five days prior to
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them, and within five
days of completion of the licensed activities.

10.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

10.7.a

at least 14 days prior to UXO clearance activities, for inclusion in the
Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness data;

10.7.b

at least 14 days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

10.7.c

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours after completion
of construction of all offshore activities.

Confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

10.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least 14 days prior to UXO clearance
activities and at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the licensed
activities or any part of them advising of the start date of Work No. 1, and
to the extent that they are constructed under this licence, Work Nos. 2, 3,
and 4, and the expected vessel routes from the construction ports to the
relevant location. Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA and
UKHO within five days.

10.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at regular intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction programme approved
under condition 17(1)(b). Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO
and UKHO within five days.

10.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office of UXO clearance
activities (14 days prior) and of the commencement (14 days prior), progress
and completion of construction (within 14 days) of the licensed activities in
order that all necessary amendments to nautical charts are made and the
undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to the MMO within five days.

10.11

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of, the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof the undertaker must as soon as possible
and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such
damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, Kingfisher
Information Service and the UK Hydrographic Office.

10.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must,
within three days following identification of a cable exposure, notify
mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure. Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA, Trinity House and UKHO within five
days.

###### Aids to navigation

11

11.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

11.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
including the following—

11.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

11.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

11.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

11.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation in accordance with the frequencies set out in the aids to
navigation management plan approved pursuant to condition  17(1)(i)  using the
reporting system provided by Trinity House.

11.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

11.5

In the event that the provisions of condition  10(11)  are invoked, the
undertaker must lay down such buoys, exhibit such lights and take such other
steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by Trinity House.

12

12.1

The undertaker must colour all structures yellow (colour code RAL 1023) from
at least highest astronomical tide to a height directed by Trinity House, or
must colour the structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

12.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must ensure that the remainder of the structures are painted
submarine grey (colour code RAL 7035).

###### Aviation safety

13

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the authorised
scheme, in writing of the following information—

13.a

the date of the commencement of construction of the authorised scheme;

13.b

the date any wind turbine generators are brought into use;

13.c

the maximum height of any construction equipment to be used;

13.d

the maximum heights of any wind turbine generator, meteorological mast and
platform to be constructed;

13.e

the latitude and longitude of each wind turbine generator, meteorological mast
and platform to be constructed,

and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding must be notified of
any changes to the information supplied under this paragraph and of the
completion of the construction of the authorised scheme. Copies of
notifications must be provided to the MMO within five working days of the
notification to the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding.

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

14

14.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO, the carriage and use of
chemicals in the construction of the authorised scheme must comply with the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships.

14.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

14.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

14.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under the Order, by submission of a disposal return by
31 January each year for the months July to December inclusive, and by 31 July
each year for the months January to June inclusive.

14.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
drilling mud and dredged material, produced during the drilling installation
of or seabed preparation for foundations, and sandwave clearance works is
disposed of within the disposal site reference(s) to be provided by MMO within
the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS. Any material of anthropogenic
origin will be screened out and disposed of at an appropriate waste facility
onshore.

14.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

14.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

14.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

14.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan approved under condition
17(1)(e)(i) .

14.10

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within five
days of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

15

15.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to deposit the authorised deposits within or
outside of the Order limits because the safety of human life and/or of the
vessel is threatened, within 48 hours full details of the circumstances of the
deposit must be notified to the MMO.

15.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### UXO clearance

16

16.1

No removal or detonation of UXO can take place until the following have been
submitted to and approved in writing by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body and, in respect of the method
statement, the MCA—

16.1.a

a method statement for UXO clearance which must include—

16.1.a.i

methodologies for—

16.1.a.i.aa

identification and investigation of potential UXO targets;

16.1.a.i.bb

clearance of UXO;

16.1.a.i.cc

removal and disposal of large debris;

16.1.a.ii

a plan showing the area in which clearance activities are proposed to take
place;

16.1.a.iii

a programme of works; and

16.1.a.iv

any exclusion zones/environmental micrositing requirements;

16.1.b

a marine mammal mitigation protocol in accordance with the draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine
mammals, following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory
nature conservation bodies.

16.2

The method statement (excluding the information required under sub-paragraphs
(1)(a)(ii) and (1)(a)(iv)) and the marine mammal mitigation protocol must be
submitted to the MMO for approval at least six months prior to the date on
which it is intended for UXO clearance activities to begin.

16.3

The information to be included within the method statement in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (1)(a)(ii) and (1)(a)(iv) must be submitted to the MMO for
approval at least three months prior to the date on which it is intended for
UXO clearance activities to begin.

16.4

Any UXO clearance activities must be undertaken in accordance with the method
statement and marine mammal mitigation protocol approved under sub-paragraph
(1).

16.5

Subject to sub-paragraph  (6) , a UXO clearance close out report must be
submitted to the MMO and the relevant statutory nature conservation body
within three months following the end of the UXO clearance activity and must
include the following for each detonation undertaken—

16.5.a

co-ordinates, depth, current speed, charge utilised and the date and time of
each detonation; and

16.5.b

whether any mitigation was deployed, including feedback on practicalities of
deployment of equipment and efficacy of the mitigation where reasonably
practicable, or justification if this information is not available.

16.6

Should there be more than one UXO clearance activity, the report required
under sub-paragraph (5) will be provided at intervals agreed with the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

17

17.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

17.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be approved in
writing by the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which shows—

17.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all wind turbine generators,
offshore electrical platforms, the construction, operation and maintenance
platform and meteorological mast;

17.1.a.ii

the height to the tip of the vertical blade; height to the centreline of the
generator shaft forming part of the hub;

17.1.a.iii

rotor diameter and spacing of all wind turbine generators;

17.1.a.iv

the height of all lattice towers forming part of the meteorological mast;

17.1.a.v

the length and arrangement of all cables comprising Work Nos. 1 and 4;

17.1.a.vi

the dimensions of all gravity base foundations;

17.1.a.vii

the dimensions of all jacket foundations;

17.1.a.viii

the dimensions of all suction caisson foundations;

17.1.a.ix

the dimensions of all monopile foundations;

17.1.a.x

the proposed layout of all wind turbine generators (to be in accordance with
the layout principles statement and which must accord with the recommendations
for layout contained in MGN654 and its annexes), offshore electrical
platforms, the construction, operation and maintenance platform and
meteorological mast including any exclusion zones identified under condition
17(1)(g)(iv) ;

17.1.a.xi

a plan showing the indicative layout of all wind turbine generators, offshore
electrical platforms, the construction, operation and maintenance platform and
meteorological mast including all exclusion zones (insofar as not shown in (x)
above) and showing the indicative programming of particular works as set out
in the indicative programme to be provided under condition  17(1)(b)(iii) ;
and

17.1.a.xii

any exclusion zones/environmental micrositing requirements;

to ensure conformity with the description of Work Nos. 1 to 4 and compliance
with conditions 1 to 9 above.

17.1.b

A construction programme to include details of—

17.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

17.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

17.1.b.iii

an indicative written construction programme for all wind turbine generators
offshore electrical platforms, the construction, operation and maintenance
platform, meteorological mast and cable comprised in the works at paragraph 3
of Part 1 (licenced marine activities) of this licence (insofar as not shown
in paragraph (ii) above);

17.1.c

A monitoring plan (which accords with the in principle monitoring plan) to
include details of proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format
and content, construction monitoring, post-construction monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with conditions 20, 21 and 22 to be submitted to the
MMO in accordance with the following—

17.1.c.i

at least six months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed monitoring;

17.1.c.ii

at least six months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;

17.1.c.iii

at least six months prior to completion of construction, detail of post-
construction (and operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

17.1.d

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

17.1.d.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works;

17.1.d.ii

cable specification, installation and monitoring, to include—

17.1.d.ii.aa

technical specification of offshore cables below MHWS;

17.1.d.ii.bb

a detailed cable laying plan for the Order limits, incorporating a burial risk
assessment encompassing the identification of any cable protection that
exceeds 5% of navigable depth referenced to Chart Datum and, in the event that
any area of cable protection exceeding 5% of navigable depth is identified,
details of any steps (to be determined following consultation with the MCA and
Trinity House) to be taken to ensure existing and future safe navigation is
not compromised or such similar assessment to ascertain suitable burial depths
and cable laying techniques, including cable protection; and

17.1.d.ii.cc

proposals for monitoring offshore cables and the status of cable protection
during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme which include a risk
based approach to the management of unburied or shallow buried cables.

17.1.d.iii

scour protection management and cable protection including details of the
need, type, sources, quantity and installation methods for scour protection
and cable protection, with details updated and resubmitted for approval if
changes to it are proposed following cable laying operations;

17.1.d.iv

main contractors;

17.1.d.v

vessels and vessels transit corridors; and

17.1.d.vi

associated and ancillary works.

17.1.e

A project environmental management plan covering the period of construction
and operation to include details of—

17.1.e.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

17.1.e.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

17.1.e.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

17.1.e.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer;

17.1.e.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan, in accordance with the outline
fisheries liaison and coexistence plan, to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 10 and
to address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities;

17.1.e.vi

procedures which must be adopted within vessels transit corridors to minimise
disturbance to red-throated diver during the period 1 November to 31 March
(inclusive), which must be in accordance with the best practice protocol for
minimising disturbance to red-throated diver.

17.1.f

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, a marine mammal mitigation protocol in accordance with the draft marine
mammal mitigation protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to
marine mammals, following current best practice as advised by the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies.

17.1.g

A written scheme of archaeological investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean high water, which must be submitted to the
statutory historic body at least six months prior to commencement of the
licensed activities and to the MMO at least four months prior to commencement
of the licensed activities and which must accord with the outline written
scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in consultation
with the statutory historic body to include—

17.1.g.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

17.1.g.ii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

17.1.g.iii

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

17.1.g.iv

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

17.1.g.v

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction,
where required;

17.1.g.vi

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the Archaeological Data Service, by
submitting an OASIS (Online AccesS to the Index of archaeological
investigationS’) form with a digital copy of the report within six months of
completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and to notify the MMO and
Historic England that the OASIS form has been submitted to the Archaeological
Data Service within two weeks of submission;

17.1.g.vii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

17.1.g.viii

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

17.1.h

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
six months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

17.1.i

An aids to navigation management plan to be approved in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 11 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

17.1.j

A  Sabellaria  reef management plan, in accordance with the outline
Sabellaria  reef management plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least six
months prior to undertaking any pre-construction geophysical survey detailed
in the monitoring plan to be submitted under condition  17(1)(c)(i) .

17.2

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed—

17.2.a

4,000kJ in respect of monopile foundations; and

17.2.b

2,400kJ in respect of pin piles.

17.3

Pre-construction archaeological investigations, UXO clearance and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of archaeological
investigation which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the
outline written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been
submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with the statutory
historic body.

18

18.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition
17(1)(g)(iii)  are to be approved by the statutory historic body.

18.2

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 17 must be submitted for approval at least six months prior to
the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

18.3

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 17.

18.4

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the approved
plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 17,
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

18.5

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that part of the authorised scheme,
adequately addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised
scheme contained within MGN654 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations
(OREIs) – Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response
Issues” and its annexes.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

19

19.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

19.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

19.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

19.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

20

20.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  17(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies (including appropriate buffers,
where relevant) and timings, and a proposed format and content for a pre-
construction baseline report; and

20.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

20.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

20.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

20.2.a

a survey to determine the location and extent of any  Sabellaria spinulosa
reef inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is proposed to
carry out construction works;

20.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey undertaken to IHO Order 1a
standard that meets the requirements of MGN654 and its annexes, and side scan
sonar, of the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is proposed to carry
out construction works including an appropriate buffer area around the site of
each work, inclusive of seabed anomalies or sites of historic or
archaeological interest that lie within the buffer;

20.2.c

any marine mammal monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  17(1)(c) ; and

20.2.d

any ornithological monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  17(1)(c) .

20.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

21

21.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  17(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In any event, such monitoring must include
measurements of noise generated by the installation of the first four piled
foundations of each piled foundation type to be installed.

21.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

21.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required. If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with the statutory nature conservation body, the assessment shows
significantly different impacts to those assessed in the environmental
statement or failures in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an
update to the marine mammal mitigation protocol and further monitoring
requirements have been agreed.

21.4

Construction monitoring must include traffic monitoring in accordance with the
outline navigation monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on
the results of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in
consultation with Trinity House and the MCA.

###### Post construction

22

22.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  17(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

22.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

22.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine any change in the location, extent and
composition of any  Sabellaria spinulosa  reef identified in the pre-
construction survey in the parts of the offshore Order limits in which
construction works were carried out. The survey design must be informed by the
results of the pre-construction survey;

22.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one swath-
bathymetry survey undertaken to IHO Order 1a standard that meets the
requirements of MGN654 and its annexes of the part(s) of the Order limits in
which construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables have been buried or protected;

22.2.c

any marine mammal monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  17(1)(c) ;

22.2.d

post-construction traffic monitoring in accordance with the outline navigation
monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on the results of that
monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in consultation with Trinity
House and the MCA; and

22.2.e

any ornithological monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  17(1)(c) .

22.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

22.4

Following installation of cables, the cable monitoring plan required under
condition  17(1)(d)(ii)(cc)  must be updated with the results of the post
installation surveys. The plan must be implemented during the operational
lifetime of the project and reviewed as specified within the plan, following
cable burial surveys, or as instructed by the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving/detonation of explosives

23

23.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations or detonation of explosives
are proposed to be used as part of the foundation installation the undertaker
must provide the following information to the Marine Noise Registry—

23.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licenced activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving/detonation of
explosives to satisfy the Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

23.1.b

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving/detonation of explosives,
information on the locations and dates of impact pile driving/detonation of
explosives to satisfy the Marine Noise Registry’s Close Out requirements

23.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to sub-paragraph (1) above within 7 days of
the submission.

23.3

For the purpose of this condition—

23.3.a

“Marine Noise Registry”  means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas;

23.3.b

“Forward Look”  and  “Close Out”  requirements are as set out in the UK Marine
Noise Registry Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated
information document.

###### Scour protection and cable protection during operation

24

24.1

During the period of five years following the completion of construction the
undertaker must not install scour protection in locations where scour
protection was not installed during construction until the following
information has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with
the relevant statutory nature conservation body—

24.1.a

the need for and location of the scour protection;

24.1.b

the type and sources of scour protection proposed to be used;

24.1.c

the volume and area of scour protection proposed, together with details of the
total volume and area of scour protection installed under this licence;

24.1.d

installation methods for the scour protection; and

24.1.e

a report to confirm the Environmental Statement predictions in relation to the
potential impact of scour protection and that the data used is appropriate.

24.2

The information required under paragraph (1) must be submitted to the MMO for
approval at least four months prior to the date on which scour protection is
intended for installation, unless otherwise agreed with the MMO.

24.3

The installation of such scour protection must be undertaken in accordance
with the details approved under sub-paragraph (1).

24.4

A close out report following each instance of installation of scour protection
approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be submitted to the MMO within three
months of completion of the activity.

24.5

Following the date of completion of construction, the undertaker must not
install scour protection in locations where scour protection was not installed
during construction unless approved under sub-paragraph (1).

24.6

During the period of five years following the completion of construction the
undertaker must not install cable protection in locations where cable
protection was not installed during construction until the following
information has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with
the relevant statutory nature conservation body—

24.6.a

the need for and location of the cable protection;

24.6.b

the type and sources of cable protection proposed to be used;

24.6.c

the volume and area of cable protection proposed, together with details of the
total volume and area of cable protection installed under this licence;

24.6.d

installation methods for the cable protection; and

24.6.e

a report to confirm the Environmental Statement predictions in relation to the
potential impact of cable protection and that the data used is appropriate.

24.7

The information required under sub-paragraph (6) must be submitted to the MMO
for approval at least four months prior to the date on which cable protection
is intended for installation, unless otherwise agreed with the MMO.

24.8

The installation of such cable protection must be undertaken in accordance
with the details approved under sub-paragraph (6).

24.9

A close out report following each instance of installation of cable protection
approved under sub-paragraph (6) must be submitted to the MMO within three
months of completion of the activity.

24.10

Following the date of completion of construction, the undertaker must not
install cable protection in locations where cable protection was not installed
during construction unless approved under sub-paragraph (6).

###### Co-operation

25

25.1

Prior to submission of plans and documentation required to be submitted to the
MMO for approval in accordance with conditions 16(1),17(1) and 26(1), the
undertaker must provide a copy of the relevant plans and documentation to the
East Anglia TWO undertaker to enable the East Anglia TWO undertaker to provide
any comments on the plans and documentation to the undertaker.

25.2

The plans and documentation submitted to the MMO for approval in accordance
with conditions 16(1), 17(1) and 26(1) must be accompanied by any comments
received by the undertaker from the East Anglia TWO undertaker in accordance
with sub-paragraph (1) or a statement from the undertaker confirming that no
such comments were received.

25.3

The undertaker must participate in liaison meetings with the East Anglia TWO
undertaker as requested from time to time by the MMO in writing in advance,
and such meetings will be chaired by the MMO and may consider such matters as
are determined by the MMO relating to the efficient management and discharge
of conditions 16(1),17(1) and 26(1) of this licence and conditions 16(1),17(1)
and 26(1) of Schedule 13, Part 2 to the East Anglia TWO Order.

25.4

For the purposes of this condition—

“ East Anglia TWO authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 1 to 6 of the East
Anglia TWO Order; “ East Anglia TWO Order ” means the East Anglia TWO Offshore
Wind Farm Order 2022; and “ East Anglia TWO undertaker ” means the undertaker
in respect of the East Anglia TWO authorised scheme.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan (Piling)

26

26.1

No piling activities can commence until a Site Integrity Plan (SIP), which
accords with the principles set out in the in principle East Anglia ONE North
Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan, has been submitted to, and
approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

26.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (SNS SAC)
as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to piling as set out within the JNCC Guidance and how this has been
considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

26.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to the
commencement of piling activities.

26.4

In approving the SIP the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan (UXO clearance)

27

27.1

No removal or detonation of UXO can take place until a Site Integrity Plan
(SIP), which accords with the principles set out in the in principle East
Anglia ONE North Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan, has been
submitted to, and approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body.

27.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (SNS SAC)
as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to removal or detonation of UXO as set out within the JNCC Guidance
and how this has been considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

27.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to removal
or detonation of UXO being undertaken.

27.4

In approving the SIP the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

###### Control of piling and UXO detonations

28

28.1

The undertaker must not—

28.1.a

undertake pile driving in respect of more than one pile at the same time;

28.1.b

undertake more than one UXO detonation at the same time; or

28.1.c

undertake pile driving at the same time as undertaking a UXO detonation.

28.2

In the event that pile driving or UXO detonation is being carried out under
licence 2 (transmission), the undertaker must not undertake pile driving or
UXO detonation under this licence at the same time.

28.3

During the winter period the undertaker must not carry out more than one pile
driving activity or UXO detonation within a 24 hour period under this licence,
alone or in-combination with pile driving or UXO detonations undertaken in
accordance with licence 2 (transmission).

28.4

For the purpose of this condition—

“ winter period ” means the period between 1 October to 31 March inclusive.

###### Herring spawning

29

29.1

The undertaker must not undertake pile driving or UXO detonations during the
herring spawning period.

29.2

The “ herring spawning period ” means a period within 1 November and 31
January to be confirmed in writing by the MMO following submission of a
herring spawning report by the undertaker which analyses the International
Herring Larval Survey data for the periods 1-15 January and 16-31 January for
the preceding ten years in order to determine when the highest larval
densities occur and which includes a methodology for the analysis.

29.3

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO, the report referred to in
paragraph (2) must be submitted to the MMO at least six months prior to—

29.3.a

the date on which it is intended for UXO clearance activities to begin; or

29.3.b

the commencement of construction,

whichever is earlier.

###### Sediment sampling

30

30.1

The undertaker must not undertake dredge or disposal activities until the
following have been submitted to and approved in writing by the MMO—

30.1.a

details of an additional sediment contaminants sampling campaign; and

30.1.b

a dredge and disposal process report detailing—

30.1.b.i

the results of the sampling campaign referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a); and

30.1.b.ii

the requirements to be adhered to during any dredge and disposal activities.

30.2

Any dredge and disposal activities must be undertaken in accordance with the
dredge and disposal process report approved under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Completion of construction

31

31.1

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body within three months of the date of
completion of construction. The close out report must confirm the date of
completion of construction and must include the following details—

31.1.a

the final number of installed wind turbine generators; and

31.1.b

the installed wind turbine generator parameters relevant for ornithological
collision risk modelling.

31.2

Following completion of construction, no further construction activities can
be undertaken under this licence.

Deemed licence under the 2009 Act – offshore transmission assets

Article 31

##### Licensed marine activities

1

1.1

In this licence—

“ the 2004 Act ” means the Energy Act 2004; “ the 2009 Act ” means the Marine
and Coastal Access Act 2009; “ the 2017 Offshore Regulations ” means the
Conservation of Offshore Marine Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ; “ the
2017 Regulations ” means the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations
2017 ; “ air clearance height ” means the distance between the lowest point of
the rotating blade of the wind turbine generator and MHWS; “ authorised
deposits ” means the substances and articles specified in paragraph 4 of Part
1 of this licence; “ authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 2 to 6 described in
paragraph 3 of Part 1 of this licence or any part of that work; “ best
practice protocol for minimising disturbance to red-throated diver ” means the
document certified as the best practice protocol for minimising disturbance to
red-throated diver by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order
under article 36; “ buoy ” means any floating device used for navigational
purposes or measurement purposes, including LiDAR buoys, wave buoys and guard
buoys; “ cable crossings ” means the crossing of existing sub-sea cables or
pipelines or other existing infrastructure by the platform link or export
cables authorised by the Order together with physical protection measures
including cable protection; “ cable protection ” means measures to protect
cables from physical damage and including, but not limited to, the use of
bagged solutions filled with grout or other materials, protective aprons or
coverings, mattresses, flow energy dissipation devices or rock and gravel
burial; “ Cefas ” means the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture
Science or any successor body to its function; “ commence ” means the first
carrying out of any licensed marine activities authorised by this licence,
save for operations consisting of offshore preparation works or
pre–construction monitoring surveys approved under this licence and the words
“commencement” and “ commenced ” must be construed accordingly; “ condition ”
means a condition in Part 2 of this licence; “ Defence Infrastructure
Organisation Safeguarding ” means Ministry of Defence Safeguarding, Defence
Infrastructure Organisation, Kingston Road, Sutton Coldfield, West Midlands,
B75 7RL and any successor body to its functions; “ draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol ” means the document certified as the draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article 36; “ enforcement officer ” means a person authorised to carry
out enforcement duties under Chapter 3 of Part 4 (marine licensing) of the
2009 Act under article 36; “ environmental statement ” means the document
certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order under article 36; “ European offshore marine site ” has
the meaning given in regulation 18 of the 2017 Offshore Regulations; “
European site ” has the meaning given in regulation 27 of the 2017 Offshore
Regulations; “ gravity base foundation ” means a structure principally of
steel, concrete, or steel and concrete which rests on the seabed either due to
its own weight with or without added ballast or additional skirts and
associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection
systems and access platforms and equipment; “ in principle monitoring plan ”
means the document certified as the in principle monitoring plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article 36; “ in
principle East Anglia ONE North Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity
Plan ” means the document certified as the in principle East Anglia ONE North
Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of the Order under article 36; “ Historic England ” means the
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England; “ intertidal area ”
means the area between MHWS and MLWS; “ jacket foundation ” means a steel
jacket/lattice-type structure constructed of steel which is fixed to the
seabed at three or more points with steel pin piles or steel suction buckets
and associated equipment including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion
protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “ JNCC Guidance ”
means the statutory nature conservation body ‘Guidance for assessing the
significance of noise disturbance against Conservation Objectives of harbour
porpoise SACs’ Joint Nature Conservation Committee Report No.654, May 2020
published in June 2020 as amended, updated or superseded from time to time; “
Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin ” means the bulletin published by the Humber
Seafood Institute or such other alternative publication approved in writing by
the MMO for the purposes of this licence; “ LAT ” means lowest astronomical
tide; “ licence 1 (generation) ” means the licence set out in Schedule 13
(deemed licence under the 2009 Act – generation assets); “ licensed activities
” means the activities specified in Part 1 of this licence; “ maintain ”
includes inspect, upkeep, repair, adjust, and alter and further includes
remove, reconstruct and replace (but only in relation to any of the ancillary
works in Part 2 of Schedule 1 (ancillary works) to the Order and any component
part of any offshore electrical platform or construction, operation and
maintenance platform described in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised
development) to the Order not including the alteration, removal or replacement
of foundations), to the extent assessed in the environmental statement; and
“maintenance” must be construed accordingly; “mean high water springs” or “
MHWS ” means the highest level which spring tides reach on average over a
period of time; “mean low water springs” or “ MLWS ” means the average height
of all low waters above Chart Datum; “Marine Management Organisation” or “ MMO
” means the body created under the 2009 Act which is responsible for the
monitoring and enforcement of this licence; “ MCA ” means the Maritime and
Coastguard Agency; “ monopile foundation ” means a steel pile, typically
cylindrical, driven and/or drilled into the seabed and associated equipment
including scour protection, J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access
platform(s) and equipment; “ offshore electrical platform ” means a platform
with one or more decks, whether open or fully clad, accommodating electrical
power transformers, low, medium and/or high voltage switch gear,
instrumentation, protection and control systems, neutral earthing resistors,
reactive compensation, standby electrical generation equipment, fuelling
facilities, auxiliary and uninterruptible power supply systems and
transformers, accommodation, emergency shelter, craneage, metering stations,
meteorological equipment, helicopter landing facilities, messing facilities,
potable water storage, black water separation equipment, control hub, drainage
facilities, access equipment, J-tubes, marking and lighting and other
associated equipment and facilities to enable the transmission of electronic
communications and for electricity to be collected at, and exported from, the
platform; “ offshore Order limits ” means the limits shown on the works plans
within which the authorised scheme may be carried out; “ offshore platforms ”
means the construction, operation and maintenance platform and the offshore
electrical platforms; “ offshore preparation works ” means surveys, monitoring
and UXO clearance activities seaward of MHWS undertaken prior to the
commencement of construction to prepare for construction; “ the Order ” means
the East Anglia ONE North Offshore Wind Farm Order 2022; “ outline fisheries
liaison and coexistence plan ” means the document certified as the outline
fisheries liaison and coexistence plan by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of the Order under article 36; “ outline navigation monitoring
strategy ” means the document certified as the outline navigation monitoring
strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article
36; “ outline offshore operations and maintenance plan ” means the document
certified as the outline offshore operations and maintenance plan by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of the Order under article 36; “outline
Sabellaria  reef management plan” means the document certified as the outline
Sabellaria  reef management plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
the Order under article 36; “ outline written scheme of investigation
(offshore) ” means the document certified as the outline written scheme of
investigation (offshore) by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order under article 36; “ pin piles ” means steel cylindrical piles driven
and/or drilled into the seabed to secure steel jacket foundations; “ platform
link cables ” means the cables linking offshore platforms to one another and
described in Work No. 4; “ relevant site ” means a European offshore marine
site or a European site; “ SAC ” means special area of conservation; “
statutory historic body ” means Historic England or its successor in function;
“ statutory nature conservation body ” means the appropriate nature
conservation body as defined in regulation 5 of the 2017 Regulations; “
suction caisson ” means large diameter steel cylindrical shells which
penetrate the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic pressure differential for
securing steel jacket foundations; “ suction caisson foundation ” means a
tubular steel structure which penetrates the seabed assisted by a hydrostatic
pressure differential and associated equipment, including scour protection,
J-tubes, corrosion protection systems and access platform(s) and equipment; “
transition bay ” means means an underground pit where the offshore export
cables are jointed to the onshore cables; “ Trinity House ” means the
Corporation of Trinity House of Deptford Strond; “ undertaker ” means East
Anglia ONE North Limited (company number 11121800); “ vessel ” means every
description of vessel, however propelled or moved, and includes a non-
displacement craft, a personal watercraft, a seaplane on the surface of the
water, a hydrofoil vessel, a hovercraft or any other amphibious vehicle and
any other thing constructed or adapted for movement through, in, on or over
water and which is at the time in, on or over water; “ UK Hydrographic Office
” means the UK Hydrographic Office of Admiralty Way, Taunton, Somerset, TA1
2DN; “ UXO ” means unexploded ordnance; and “ works plans ” means the plans
certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of the
Order.

1.2

A reference to any statute, order, regulation or similar instrument is
construed as a reference to a statute, order, regulation or instrument as
amended by any subsequent statute, order, regulation or instrument or as
contained in any subsequent re-enactment.

1.3

Unless otherwise indicated—

1.3.a

all times are taken to be Greenwich Mean Time (GMT);

1.3.b

all coordinates are taken to be latitude and longitude degrees and minutes to
two decimal places.

1.4

Except where otherwise notified in writing by the relevant organisation, the
primary point of contact with the organisations listed below and the address
for returns and correspondence are—

1.4.a

Marine Management Organisation

Marine Licensing Team

Lancaster House

Hampshire Court

Newcastle Business Park

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE4 7YH

Tel: 0300 123 1032;

1.4.b

Marine Management Organisation (local office)

Marine Environment Team

Pakefield Road

Lowestoft

Suffolk

NR33 0HT

Tel: 0208 026 6094;

1.4.c

Trinity House

Tower Hill

London

EC3N 4DH

Tel: 020 7481 6900;

1.4.d

The United Kingdom Hydrographic Office

Admiralty Way

Taunton

Somerset

TA1 2DN

Tel: 01823 337 900;

1.4.e

Maritime and Coastguard Agency

Navigation Safety Branch

Bay 2/20, Spring Place

105 Commercial Road

Southampton

SO15 1EG

Tel: 020 3817 2426;

1.4.f

Natural England

Area 1C, Nobel House

17 Smith Square

London

SW1P 2AL

Tel: 0300 060 4911;

1.4.g

Historic England

Brooklands

24 Brooklands Avenue

Cambridge

CB2 8BU

Tel: 01223 582749.

###### Details of licensed marine activities

2

Subject to the licence conditions, this licence authorises the undertaker (and
any agent or contractor acting on their behalf) to carry out the following
licensable marine activities under section 66(1) of the 2009 Act—

2.a

the deposit at sea of the substances and articles specified in paragraph 4
below;

2.b

the construction of works in or over the sea or on or under the sea bed;

2.c

dredging for the purposes of seabed preparation for foundation works and cable
laying preparation works;

2.d

debris clearance works;

2.e

boulder clearance works either by displacement ploughing or subsea grab
technique or other equivalent method;

2.f

UXO clearance works;

2.g

the removal of out of service cables;

2.h

the removal of sediment samples for the purposes of informing environmental
monitoring under this licence during pre-construction, construction and
operation; and

2.i

the disposal of up to 1,887,600 m 3  of inert material of natural origin
and/or dredged material within the offshore Order limits produced during
construction drilling or seabed preparation for foundation works, sandwave
clearance and boulder clearance works at disposal site reference(s) to be
provided by the MMO within the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS
comprising—

2.i.i

668,800 m 3  in respect of the construction, operation and maintenance
platform and the offshore electrical platforms (some of which may
alternatively be disposed under licence 1 (generation));

2.i.ii

150,000 m 3  in respect of the platform link cables (some of which may
alternatively be disposed under licence 1 (generation)); and

2.i.iii

1,068,800 m 3  in respect of the subsea export cables.

3

3.1

Such activities are authorised in relation to the construction, maintenance
and operation of—

3.2

Work No. 2 — up to one construction, operation and maintenance platform fixed
to the seabed within the area shown on the works plans by one of four
foundation types (namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles
or gravity base) (which may alternatively be constructed under licence 1
(generation));

3.3

Work No. 3 — up to four offshore electrical platforms fixed to the seabed
within the area shown on the works plans by one of four foundation types
(namely monopile, jacket on suction caissons, jacket on piles or gravity base)
(which may alternatively be constructed under licence 1 (generation));

3.4

Work No. 4 — a network of subsea platform link cables within the area shown on
the works plans between the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work No.
3 and between the construction, operation and maintenance platform comprising
Work No. 2 and the offshore electrical platforms comprising Work No. 3 for the
transmission of electricity and electronic communications including one or
more cable crossings (which may alternatively be constructed under licence 1
(generation));

3.5

Work No. 5 — up to two subsea export cables between Work No. 3 and Work No. 6
within the area shown on the works plans including one or more cable
crossings;

3.6

Work No. 6 — a landfall connection works consisting of up to two cables laid
underground from Work No. 5 to the transition bays;

3.7

In connection with such Work Nos. 2 to 6 and to the extent that they do not
otherwise form part of any such work, further associated development
comprising such other works as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes
of or in connection with the relevant part of the authorised scheme and which
fall within the scope of the work assessed by the environmental statement,
including—

3.7.a

scour protection around the foundations of the offshore structures;

3.7.b

cable protection measures such as rock placement and the placement of concrete
mattresses and frond mattresses;

3.7.c

dredging;

3.7.d

the removal of material from the seabed required for the construction of Work
Nos. 2 to 6 and the disposal of seabed sediments produced during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for the installation of the foundations of the
offshore structures or during seabed preparation for cable laying;

3.8

In connection with such Work Nos. 2 to 6, ancillary works within the Order
limits which have been subject to an environmental impact assessment recorded
in the environmental statement comprising—

3.8.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/ or maintenance of the authorised scheme; and

3.8.b

marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works.

4

The substances or articles authorised for deposit at sea are—

4.a

iron and steel, copper and aluminium;

4.b

stone and rock;

4.c

concrete;

4.d

sand and gravel;

4.e

plastic and synthetic;

4.f

bentonite drilling mud;

4.g

material extracted from within the offshore Order limits during construction
drilling and seabed preparation for foundation works and sandwave clearance
works; and

4.h

marine coatings, other chemicals and timber.

5

The grid coordinates for the authorised scheme are specified below—

Point Latitude Longitude 1 52° 21 40.240N 02° 18 57.351E 2 52° 22 49.082N 02°
18 20.131E 3 52° 25 41.851N 02° 18 38.726E 4 52° 26 07.817N 02° 19 55.691E 5
52° 25 47.948N 02° 34 14.117E 6 52° 20 33.278N 02° 34 13.789E 7 52° 20 19.052N
02° 28 56.310E 8 52° 18 11.924N 02° 20 49.771E 9 52° 21 07.976N 02° 19 14.783E
10 52° 19 34.060N 02° 11 21.980E 11 52° 19 10.459N 02° 10 57.491E 12 52° 19
10.410N 02° 08 40.019E 13 52° 17 42.613N 02° 08 31.830E 14 52° 18 44.262N 02°
06 49.319E 15 52° 18 39.650N 01° 57 24.848E 16 52° 17 25.858N 01° 54 09.969E
17 52° 17 24.663N 01° 52 03.374E 18 52° 17 24.629N 01° 52 03.277E 19 52° 15
14.373N 01° 45 57.606E 20 52° 14 29.510N 01° 45 06.050E 21 52° 10 51.365N 01°
42 32.460E 22 52° 09 56.713N 01° 39 52.443E 23 52° 09 53.117N 01° 38 40.253E
24 52° 10 06.702N 01° 37 38.597E 25 52° 10 44.466N 01° 37 04.551E 26 52° 11
01.504N 01° 37 17.750E 27 52° 11 02.378N 01° 37 15.833E 28 52° 11 11.451N 01°
37 20.545E 29 52° 11 22.030N 01° 37 22.233E 30 52° 11 30.678N 01° 37 21.417E
31 52° 11 31.210N 01° 37 24.534E 32 52° 11 33.421N 01° 37 24.505E 33 52° 11
53.663N 01° 37 50.246E 34 52° 12 26.106N 01° 40 17.584E 35 52° 13 37.194N 01°
41 04.014E 36 52° 15 54.943N 01° 45 03.442E 37 52° 18 25.193N 01° 52 05.276E
38 52° 20 19.496N 01° 56 37.327E 39 52° 20 25.400N 02° 08 48.429E 40 52° 20
02.196N 02° 08 47.461E 41 52° 20 02.239N 02° 10 44.070E

6

This licence remains in force until the authorised scheme has been
decommissioned in accordance with a programme approved by the Secretary of
State under section 106 of the 2004 Act, including any modification to the
programme under section 108, and the completion of such programme has been
confirmed by the Secretary of State in writing.

7

The provisions of section 72 of the 2009 Act apply to this licence except that
the provisions of section 72(7) and (8) relating to the transfer of the
licence only apply to a transfer not falling within article  5  (benefit of
the Order).

8

With respect to any condition which requires the licensed activities be
carried out in accordance with the plans, protocols or statements approved
under this licence, the approved details, plan or scheme are taken to include
any amendments that may subsequently be approved in writing by the MMO.

9

Any amendments to the details, plan or scheme must be in accordance with the
principles and assessments set out in the environmental statement, and
approval for an amendment may be given only where it has been demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the MMO that the amendment is unlikely to give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects from those
assessed in the environmental statement.

10

Notwithstanding the grid coordinates specified at paragraph 3 and
notwithstanding anything to the contrary shown on the work plans referred to
in this Part, no part of Work No. 1(a) or Work No. 1(b) as described in
paragraph 3, may be carried out if it falls within 8 kilometres of the
boundary of the Outer Thames Estuary Special Protection Area.

##### Conditions

###### Design parameters

1

1.1

The total number of construction, operation and maintenance platforms forming
part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 1
(generation) taken together must not exceed one (whether constructed under
this licence or licence 1 (generation)).

1.2

The dimensions of the construction, operation and maintenance platform forming
part of the authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes)
must not exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in
length and 50 metres in width.

2

2.1

The total number of offshore electrical platforms forming part of the
authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 1 (generation) taken
together must not exceed four (whether constructed under this licence or
licence 1 (generation)).

2.2

The dimensions of any offshore electrical platform forming part of the
authorised scheme (excluding towers, helipads, masts and cranes) must not
exceed 50 metres in height when measured from LAT, 70 metres in length and 50
metres in width.

3

The total length of the cables forming part of the authorised scheme and the
authorised scheme in licence 1 (generation) and the volume and area of their
cable protection must not exceed the following (whether installed under this
licence or licence 1 (generation))—

Work Length Area of cable protection Volume of cable protection Work No. 4
(platform link cables) 75 kilometres 130,390 m 2 146,650 m 3 Work Nos. 5 and 6
(export cables) 152 kilometres 110,840 m 2 124,662 m 3

4

4.1

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
gravity base foundations must not have a total footprint of more than 4,800 m
2 .

4.2

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
jacket foundations must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more
than 5,676 m 2 .

4.3

In relation to any construction, operation and maintenance platform, the
monopile foundation must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is
more than 177 m 2 .

4.4

The total amount of scour protection for the construction, operation and
maintenance platform forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised
scheme in licence 1 (generation) must not exceed 15,276 m 2  (whether
installed under this licence or licence 1 (generation)).

4.5

The total volume of scour protection for the construction, operation and
maintenance platform forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised
scheme in licence 1 (generation) must not exceed 22,914 m 3  (whether
installed under this licence or licence 1 (generation)).

5

5.1

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the gravity base foundations
must not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 4,800 m 2 .

5.2

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the jacket foundations must
not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 5,676 m 2 .

5.3

In relation to each offshore electrical platform, the monopile foundation must
not have a total footprint at the seabed which is more than 177 m 2 .

5.4

The total amount of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 1
(generation) must not exceed 62,064 m 2  (whether installed under this licence
or licence 1 (generation)).

5.5

The total volume of scour protection for the offshore electrical platforms
forming part of the authorised scheme and the authorised scheme in licence 1
(generation) must not exceed 91,656 m 3  (whether installed under this licence
or licence 1 (generation)).

###### Notifications and inspections

6

6.1

The undertaker must ensure that—

6.1.a

a copy of this licence (issued as part of the grant of the Order) and any
subsequent amendments or revisions to it is provided to—

6.1.a.i

all agents and contractors notified to the MMO in accordance with condition
15; and

6.1.a.ii

the masters and transport managers responsible for the vessels notified to the
MMO in accordance with condition 15;

6.1.b

within 28 days of receipt of a copy of this licence those persons referred to
in paragraph (a) above must confirm receipt of this licence in writing to the
MMO.

6.2

Only those persons and vessels notified to the MMO in accordance with
condition 15 are permitted to carry out the licensed activities.

6.3

Copies of this licence must also be available for inspection at the following
locations—

6.3.a

the undertaker’s registered address;

6.3.b

any site office located at or adjacent to the construction site and used by
the undertaker or its agents and contractors responsible for the loading,
transportation or deposit of the authorised deposits; and

6.3.c

on board each vessel or at the office of any transport manager with
responsibility for vessels from which authorised deposits or removals are to
be made.

6.4

The documents referred to in sub-paragraph  (1)(a)  must be available for
inspection by an authorised enforcement officer at the locations set out in
sub-paragraph (3)(b) above.

6.5

The undertaker must provide access, and if necessary appropriate
transportation, to the offshore construction site or any other associated
works or vessels to facilitate any inspection that the MMO considers necessary
to inspect the works during construction and operation of the authorised
scheme.

6.6

The undertaker must inform the MMO Coastal Office in writing at least five
days prior to UXO clearance activities and at least five days prior to
commencement of the licensed activities or any part of them, and within five
days of completion of the licensed activities.

6.7

The undertaker must inform the Kingfisher Information Service of Seafish by
email to kingfisher@seafish.co.uk of details regarding the vessel routes,
timings and locations relating to the construction of the authorised scheme or
relevant part—

6.7.a

at least 14 days prior to UXO clearance activities, for inclusion in the
Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness data;

6.7.b

at least 14 days prior to the commencement of offshore activities, for
inclusion in the Kingfisher Fortnightly Bulletin and offshore hazard awareness
data; and

6.7.c

as soon as reasonably practicable and no later than 24 hours after completion
of construction of all offshore activities.

Confirmation of notification must be provided to the MMO within five days.

6.8

A notice to mariners must be issued at least 14 days prior to UXO clearance
activities and at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the licensed
activities or any part of them advising of the start date of Work Nos. 2, 3,
4, 5 and 6 to the extent that they are constructed under this licence, and the
expected vessel routes from the construction ports to the relevant location.
Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA and UKHO within five
days.

6.9

The notices to mariners must be updated and reissued at regular intervals
during construction activities and at least five days before any planned
operations and maintenance works and supplemented with VHF radio broadcasts
agreed with the MCA in accordance with the construction programme approved
under condition  13(1)(b) . Copies of all notices must be provided to the MMO
and UKHO within five days.

6.10

The undertaker must notify the UK Hydrographic Office of UXO clearance
activities (14 days prior) and of the commencement (14 days prior), progress
and completion of construction (within 14 days) of the licensed activities in
order that all necessary amendments to nautical charts are made and the
undertaker must send a copy of such notifications to the MMO within five days.

6.11

In case of damage to, or destruction or decay of, the authorised scheme
seaward of MHWS or any part thereof the undertaker must as soon as possible
and no later than 24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such
damage, destruction or decay, notify MMO, MCA, Trinity House, Kingfisher
Information Service and the UK Hydrographic Office.

6.12

In case of exposure of cables on or above the seabed, the undertaker must,
within three days following identification of a cable exposure, notify
mariners by issuing a notice to mariners and by informing Kingfisher
Information Service of the location and extent of exposure. Copies of all
notices must be provided to the MMO, MCA, Trinity House and UKHO within five
days.

###### Aids to navigation

7

7.1

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS exhibit such
lights, marks, sounds, signals and other aids to navigation, and take such
other steps for the prevention of danger to navigation as Trinity House may
from time to time direct.

7.2

The undertaker must during the period from the start of construction of the
authorised scheme to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS keep
Trinity House and the MMO informed of progress of the authorised scheme
including the following—

7.2.a

notice of commencement of construction of the authorised scheme within 24
hours of commencement having occurred;

7.2.b

notice within 24 hours of any aids to navigation being established by the
undertaker; and

7.2.c

notice within five days of completion of construction of the authorised
scheme.

7.3

The undertaker must provide reports to Trinity House on the availability of
aids to navigation in accordance with the frequencies set out in the aids to
navigation management plan approved pursuant to condition  17(1)(i)  using the
reporting system provided by Trinity House.

7.4

The undertaker must during the whole period from commencement of the licensed
activities to completion of decommissioning seaward of MHWS notify Trinity
House and the MMO of any failure of the aids to navigation and the timescales
and plans for remedying such failures, as soon as possible and no later than
24 hours following the undertaker becoming aware of any such failure.

7.5

In the event that the provisions of condition  6(11)  are invoked, the
undertaker must lay down such buoys, exhibit such lights and take such other
steps for preventing danger to navigation as directed by Trinity House.

8

8.1

The undertaker must colour all structures yellow (colour code RAL 1023) from
at least highest astronomical tide to a height directed by Trinity House, or
must colour the structure as directed by Trinity House from time to time.

8.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (1) above, unless the MMO otherwise directs, the
undertaker must ensure that the remainder of the structures are painted
submarine grey (colour code RAL 7035).

###### Aviation safety

9

The undertaker must notify the Defence Infrastructure Organisation
Safeguarding, at least 14 days prior to the commencement of the authorised
scheme, in writing of the following information—

9.a

the date of the commencement of construction of the authorised scheme;

9.b

the maximum height of any construction equipment to be used;

9.c

the maximum height of any platform to be constructed;

9.d

the latitude and longitude of each platform to be constructed,

and the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding must be notified of
any changes to the information supplied under this paragraph and of the
completion of the construction of the authorised scheme. Copies of
notifications must be provided to the MMO within five working days of the
notification to the Defence Infrastructure Organisation Safeguarding.

###### Chemicals, drilling and debris

10

10.1

Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO, the carriage and use of
chemicals in the construction of the authorised scheme must comply with the
International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships.

10.2

The undertaker must ensure that any coatings/treatments are suitable for use
in the marine environment and are used in accordance with guidelines approved
by Health and Safety Executive and the Environment Agency Pollution Prevention
Control Guidelines.

10.3

The storage, handling, transport and use of fuels, lubricants, chemicals and
other substances must be undertaken so as to prevent releases into the marine
environment, including bunding of 110% of the total volume of all reservoirs
and containers.

10.4

The undertaker must inform the MMO of the location and quantities of material
disposed of each month under the Order, by submission of a disposal return by
31 January each year for the months July to December inclusive, and by 31 July
each year for the months January to June inclusive.

10.5

The undertaker must ensure that only inert material of natural origin,
drilling mud and dredged material, produced during the drilling installation
of or seabed preparation for foundations, and sandwave clearance works is
disposed of within the disposal site reference(s) to be provided by MMO within
the extent of the Order limits seaward of MHWS. Any material of anthropogenic
origin will be screened out and disposed of at an appropriate waste facility
onshore.

10.6

The undertaker must ensure that any rock material used in the construction of
the authorised scheme is from a recognised source, free from contaminants and
containing minimal fines.

10.7

In the event that any rock material used in the construction of the authorised
scheme is misplaced or lost below MHWS, the undertaker must report the loss to
the District Marine Office within 48 hours and if the MMO reasonably considers
such material to constitute a navigation or environmental hazard (dependent on
the size and nature of the material) the undertaker must endeavour to locate
the material and recover it.

10.8

The undertaker must ensure that no waste concrete slurry or wash water from
concrete or cement works are discharged into the marine environment. Concrete
and cement mixing and washing areas should be contained to prevent run off
entering the water through the freeing ports.

10.9

The undertaker must ensure that any oil, fuel or chemical spill within the
marine environment is reported to the MMO, Marine Pollution Response Team in
accordance with the marine pollution contingency plan approved under condition
13(1)(e)(i) .

10.10

All dropped objects must be reported to the MMO using the Dropped Object
Procedure Form as soon as reasonably practicable and in any event within five
days of the undertaker becoming aware of an incident. On receipt of the
Dropped Object Procedure Form, the MMO may require relevant surveys to be
carried out by the undertaker (such as side scan sonar) if reasonable to do so
and the MMO may require obstructions to be removed from the seabed at the
undertaker’s expense if reasonable to do so.

###### Force majeure

11

11.1

If, due to stress of weather or any other cause the master of a vessel
determines that it is necessary to deposit the authorised deposits within or
outside of the Order limits because the safety of human life and/or of the
vessel is threatened, within 48 hours full details of the circumstances of the
deposit must be notified to the MMO.

11.2

The unauthorised deposits must be removed at the expense of the undertaker
unless written approval is obtained from the MMO.

###### UXO clearance

12

12.1

No removal or detonation of UXO can take place until the following have been
submitted to and approved in writing by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body and, in respect of the method
statement, the MCA—

12.1.a

a method statement for UXO clearance which must include—

12.1.a.i

methodologies for—

12.1.a.i.aa

identification and investigation of potential UXO targets;

12.1.a.i.bb

clearance of UXO;

12.1.a.i.cc

removal and disposal of large debris;

12.1.a.ii

a plan showing the area in which clearance activities are proposed to take
place;

12.1.a.iii

a programme of works; and

12.1.a.iv

any exclusion zones/environmental micrositing requirements;

12.1.b

a marine mammal mitigation protocol in accordance with the draft marine mammal
mitigation protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to marine
mammals, following current best practice as advised by the relevant statutory
nature conservation bodies.

12.2

The method statement (excluding the information required under sub-paragraphs
(1)(a)(ii) and (1)(a)(iv)) and the marine mammal mitigation protocol must be
submitted to the MMO for approval at least six months prior to the date on
which it is intended for UXO clearance activities to begin.

12.3

The information to be included within the method statement in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (1)(a)(ii) and (1)(a)(iv) must be submitted to the MMO for
approval at least three months prior to the date on which it is intended for
UXO clearance activities to begin.

12.4

Any UXO clearance activities must be undertaken in accordance with the method
statement and marine mammal mitigation protocol approved under sub-paragraph
(1).

12.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), a UXO clearance close out report must be
submitted to the MMO and the relevant statutory nature conservation body
within three months following the end of the UXO clearance activity and must
include the following for each detonation undertaken—

12.5.a

co-ordinates, depth, current speed, charge utilised and the date and time of
each detonation; and

12.5.b

whether any mitigation was deployed, including feedback on practicalities of
deployment of equipment and efficacy of the mitigation where reasonably
practicable, or justification if this information is not available.

12.6

Should there be more than one UXO clearance activity, the report required
under sub-paragraph (5) will be provided at intervals agreed with the MMO.

###### Pre-construction plans and documentation

13

13.1

The licensed activities or any part of those activities must not commence
until the following (as relevant to that part) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the MMO—

13.1.a

A design plan at a scale of between 1:25,000 and 1:50,000, including detailed
representation on the most suitably scaled admiralty chart, to be approved in
writing with the MMO in consultation with Trinity House and the MCA which
shows—

13.1.a.i

the proposed location and choice of foundation of all offshore electrical
platforms and the construction, operation and maintenance platform;

13.1.a.ii

the length and arrangement of all cables comprising Work Nos. 4, 5 and 6;

13.1.a.iii

the dimensions of all gravity base foundations;

13.1.a.iv

the dimensions of all jacket foundations;

13.1.a.v

the dimensions of all suction caisson foundations;

13.1.a.vi

the dimensions of all monopile foundations;

13.1.a.vii

the proposed layout of the offshore electrical platforms and the construction,
operation and maintenance platform including any exclusion zones identified
under condition  13(1)(g)(iv) ;

13.1.a.viii

a plan showing the indicative layout of the offshore electrical platforms and
the construction, operation and maintenance platform including all exclusion
zones (insofar as not shown in (vii) above) and showing the indicative
programming of particular works as set out in the indicative programme to be
provided under condition  13(1)(b)(iii) ; and

13.1.a.ix

any exclusion zones/environmental micrositing requirements;

to ensure conformity with the description of Work Nos. 2 to 6 and compliance
with conditions 1 to 5 above.

13.1.b

A construction programme to include details of—

13.1.b.i

the proposed construction start date;

13.1.b.ii

proposed timings for mobilisation of plant delivery of materials and
installation works;

13.1.b.iii

an indicative written construction programme for the offshore electrical
platforms, and the construction, operation and maintenance platform and cables
comprised in the works at paragraph  3  of Part 1 (licenced marine activities)
of this licence (insofar as not shown in sub-paragraph (ii) above);

13.1.c

A monitoring plan (which accords with the in principle monitoring plan) to
include details of proposed pre-construction surveys, baseline report format
and content, construction monitoring, post-construction monitoring and related
reporting in accordance with conditions 16, 17 and 18 to be submitted to the
MMO in accordance with the following—

13.1.c.i

at least six months prior to the first survey, detail of the pre-construction
surveys and an outline of all proposed monitoring;

13.1.c.ii

at least six months prior to construction, detail on construction monitoring;

13.1.c.iii

at least six months prior to completion of construction, detail of post-
construction (and operational) monitoring;

unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO.

13.1.d

A construction method statement in accordance with the construction methods
assessed in the environmental statement and including details of—

13.1.d.i

foundation installation methodology, including drilling methods and disposal
of drill arisings and material extracted during seabed preparation for
foundation works;

13.1.d.ii

cable specification, installation and monitoring, to include—

13.1.d.ii.aa

technical specification of offshore cables below MHWS;

13.1.d.ii.bb

a detailed cable laying plan for the Order limits, incorporating a burial risk
assessment encompassing the identification of any cable protection that
exceeds 5% of navigable depth referenced to Chart Datum and, in the event that
any area of cable protection exceeding 5% of navigable depth is identified,
details of any steps (to be determined following consultation with the MCA and
Trinity House) to be taken to ensure existing and future safe navigation is
not compromised or such similar assessment to ascertain suitable burial depths
and cable laying techniques, including cable landfall and cable protection;
and

13.1.d.ii.cc

proposals for monitoring offshore cables and the status of cable protection
during the operational lifetime of the authorised scheme which include a risk
based approach to the management of unburied or shallow buried cables; and

13.1.d.ii.dd

where necessary, a relocation plan for Waverider Buoy and associated buoy (WMO
ID: 62294) located at 52°12’ 28.8″N, 001° 41’ 04.8″E during cable
installation, after consultation by the undertaker with Cefas and Trinity
House;

13.1.d.iii

scour protection management and cable protection including details of the
need, type, sources, quantity and installation methods for scour protection
and cable protection, with details updated and resubmitted for approval if
changes to it are proposed following cable laying operations;

13.1.d.iv

main contractors;

13.1.d.v

vessels and vessels transit corridors; and

13.1.d.vi

associated and ancillary works.

13.1.e

A project environmental management plan covering the period of construction
and operation to include details of—

13.1.e.i

a marine pollution contingency plan to address the risks, methods and
procedures to deal with any spills and collision incidents of the authorised
scheme in relation to all activities carried out;

13.1.e.ii

a chemical risk assessment to include information regarding how and when
chemicals are to be used, stored and transported in accordance with recognised
best practice guidance;

13.1.e.iii

waste management and disposal arrangements;

13.1.e.iv

the appointment and responsibilities of a fisheries liaison officer;

13.1.e.v

a fisheries liaison and coexistence plan, in accordance with the outline
fisheries liaison and coexistence plan, to ensure relevant fishing fleets are
notified of commencement of licensed activities pursuant to condition 6 and to
address the interaction of the licensed activities with fishing activities;

13.1.e.vi

procedures which must be adopted within vessels transit corridors to minimise
disturbance to red-throated diver during the period 1 November to 31 March
(inclusive), which must be in accordance with the best practice protocol for
minimising disturbance to red-throated diver.

13.1.f

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, a marine mammal mitigation protocol in accordance with the draft marine
mammal mitigation protocol, the intention of which is to prevent injury to
marine mammals, following current best practice as advised by the relevant
statutory nature conservation bodies.

13.1.g

A written scheme of archaeological investigation in relation to the offshore
Order limits seaward of mean high water, which must be submitted to the
statutory historic body at least six months prior to commencement of the
licensed activities and to the MMO at least four months prior to commencement
of the licensed activities and which must accord with the outline written
scheme of investigation (offshore) and industry good practice, in consultation
with the statutory historic body (and, if relevant, Suffolk County Council) to
include—

13.1.g.i

details of responsibilities of the undertaker, archaeological consultant and
contractor;

13.1.g.ii

details of coastal interface;

13.1.g.iii

a methodology for further site investigation including any specifications for
geophysical, geotechnical and diver or remotely operated vehicle
investigations;

13.1.g.iv

archaeological analysis of survey data, and timetable for reporting, which is
to be submitted to the MMO within four months of any survey being completed;

13.1.g.v

delivery of any mitigation including, where necessary, identification and
modification of archaeological exclusion zones;

13.1.g.vi

monitoring of archaeological exclusion zones during and post construction,
where required;

13.1.g.vii

a requirement for the undertaker to ensure that a copy of any agreed
archaeological report is deposited with the Archaeological Data Service, by
submitting an OASIS (Online AccesS to the Index of archaeological
investigationS’) form with a digital copy of the report within six months of
completion of construction of the authorised scheme, and to notify the MMO and
Historic England that the OASIS form has been submitted to the Archaeological
Data Service within two weeks of submission;

13.1.g.viii

a reporting and recording protocol, including reporting of any wreck or wreck
material during construction, operation and decommissioning of the authorised
scheme; and

13.1.g.ix

a timetable for all further site investigations, which must allow sufficient
opportunity to establish a full understanding of the historic environment
within the offshore Order limits and the approval of any necessary mitigation
required as a result of the further site investigations prior to commencement
of licensed activities.

13.1.h

An offshore operations and maintenance plan, in accordance with the outline
offshore operations and maintenance plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least
six months prior to commencement of operation of the licensed activities and
to provide for review and resubmission every three years during the
operational phase.

13.1.i

An aids to navigation management plan to be approved in writing by the MMO
following consultation with Trinity House, to include details of how the
undertaker will comply with the provisions of condition 7 for the lifetime of
the authorised scheme.

13.1.j

A  Sabellaria  reef management plan, in accordance with the outline
Sabellaria  reef management plan, to be submitted to the MMO at least six
months prior to undertaking any pre-construction geophysical survey detailed
in the monitoring plan to be submitted under condition  13(1)(c)(i) .

13.2

In the event that driven or part-driven pile foundations are proposed to be
used, the hammer energy used to drive or part-drive the pile foundations must
not exceed—

13.2.a

4,000kJ in respect of monopile foundations; and

13.2.b

2,400kJ in respect of pin piles.

13.3

Pre-construction archaeological investigations, UXO clearance and pre-
commencement material operations which involve intrusive seabed works must
only take place in accordance with a specific written scheme of archaeological
investigation which is itself in accordance with the details set out in the
outline written scheme of investigation (offshore), and which has been
submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with the statutory
historic body.

14

14.1

Any archaeological reports produced in accordance with condition
13(1)(g)(iii)  are to be approved by the statutory historic body.

14.2

Each programme, statement, plan, protocol or scheme required to be approved
under condition 13 must be submitted for approval at least six months prior to
the intended commencement of licensed activities, except where otherwise
stated or unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

14.3

No licensed activity may commence until for that licensed activity the MMO has
approved in writing any relevant programme, statement, plan, protocol or
scheme required to be approved under condition 13.

14.4

The licensed activities must be carried out in accordance with the approved
plans, protocols, statements, schemes and details approved under condition 13,
unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO.

14.5

No part of the authorised scheme may commence until the MMO, in consultation
with the MCA, has confirmed in writing that the undertaker has taken into
account and, so far as is applicable to that part of the authorised scheme,
adequately addressed all MCA recommendations as appropriate to the authorised
scheme contained within MGN654 “Offshore Renewable Energy Installations
(OREIs) – Guidance on UK Navigational Practice, Safety and Emergency Response
Issues” and its annexes.

###### Reporting of engaged agents, contractors and vessels

15

15.1

The undertaker must provide the following information to the MMO—

15.1.a

the name and function of any agent or contractor appointed to engage in the
licensed activities within seven days of appointment; and

15.1.b

each week during the construction of the authorised scheme a completed
Hydrographic Note H102 listing the vessels currently and to be used in
relation to the licensed activities.

15.2

Any changes to the supplied details must be notified to the MMO in writing
prior to the agent, contractor or vessel engaging in the licensed activities.

###### Pre-construction monitoring and surveys

16

16.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for written approval by
the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory bodies of proposed pre-
construction surveys, including methodologies (including appropriate buffers,
where relevant) and timings, and a proposed format and content for a pre-
construction baseline report; and

16.1.a

the survey proposals must specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it
will assist in either informing a useful and valid comparison with the post-
construction position and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key
predictions in the environmental statement; and

16.1.b

the baseline report proposals must ensure that the outcome of the agreed
surveys together with existing data and reports are drawn together to present
a valid statement of the pre-construction position, with any limitations, and
must make clear what post-construction comparison is intended and the
justification for this being required.

16.2

The pre-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

16.2.a

a survey to determine the location and extent of any  Sabellaria spinulosa
reef inside the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is proposed to
carry out construction works;

16.2.b

a full sea floor coverage swath-bathymetry survey undertaken to IHO Order 1a
standard that meets the requirements of MGN654 and its annexes, and side scan
sonar, of the area(s) within the Order limits in which it is proposed to carry
out construction works including an appropriate buffer area around the site of
each work, inclusive of seabed anomalies or sites of historic or
archaeological interest that lie within the buffer;

16.2.c

any marine mammal monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition 13 13(1)(c) ; and

16.2.d

any ornithological monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  13(1)(c) .

16.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the baseline report to the MMO in the agreed format in accordance with
the agreed timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the MMO in
consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

###### Construction monitoring

17

17.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies of any
proposed monitoring, including methodologies and timings, to be carried out
during the construction of the authorised scheme. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives. In any event, such monitoring must include
measurements of noise generated by the installation of the first four piled
foundations of each piled foundation type to be installed.

17.2

The undertaker must carry out the surveys approved under sub-paragraph (1),
including any further noise monitoring required in writing by the MMO, and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

17.3

The results of the initial noise measurements monitored in accordance with
sub-paragraph (1) must be provided to the MMO within six weeks of the
installation of the first four piled foundations of each piled foundation
type. The assessment of this report by the MMO will determine whether any
further noise monitoring is required. If, in the opinion of the MMO in
consultation with the statutory nature conservation body, the assessment shows
significantly different impacts to those assessed in the environmental
statement or failures in mitigation, all piling activity must cease until an
update to the marine mammal mitigation protocol and further monitoring
requirements have been agreed.

17.4

Construction monitoring must include traffic monitoring in accordance with the
outline navigation monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on
the results of that monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in
consultation with Trinity House and the MCA.

###### Post construction

18

18.1

The undertaker must, in discharging condition  13(1)(c) , submit details
(which accord with the in principle monitoring plan) for approval by the MMO
in consultation with relevant statutory bodies of proposed post-construction
surveys, including methodologies and timings, and a proposed format, content
and timings for providing reports on the results. The survey proposals must
specify each survey’s objectives and explain how it will assist in either
informing a useful and valid comparison with the pre-construction position
and/or will enable the validation or otherwise of key predictions in the
environmental statement.

18.2

The post-construction surveys referred to in sub-paragraph (1) must, unless
otherwise agreed with the MMO, have due regard to, but not be limited to, the
need to undertake—

18.2.a

appropriate surveys to determine any change in the location, extent and
composition of any  Sabellaria spinulosa  reef identified in the pre-
construction survey in the parts of the offshore Order limits in which
construction works were carried out. The survey design must be informed by the
results of the pre-construction survey;

18.2.b

within twelve months of completion of the licensed activities, one swath-
bathymetry survey undertaken to IHO Order 1a standard that meets the
requirements of MGN654 and its annexes of the part(s) of the Order limits in
which construction works were carried out to assess any changes in bedform
topography and such further monitoring or assessment as may be agreed to
ensure that cables have been buried or protected;

18.2.c

any marine mammal monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  13(1)(c) ;

18.2.d

post-construction traffic monitoring in accordance with the outline navigation
monitoring strategy, including the provision of reports on the results of that
monitoring periodically as requested by the MMO in consultation with Trinity
House and the MCA; and

18.2.e

any ornithological monitoring required by the monitoring plan submitted in
accordance with condition  13(1)(c) .

18.3

The undertaker must carry out the surveys agreed under sub-paragraph (1) and
provide the agreed reports in the agreed format in accordance with the agreed
timetable, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation bodies.

18.4

Following installation of cables, the cable monitoring plan required under
condition  13(1)(d)(ii)(cc)  must be updated with the results of the post
installation surveys. The plan must be implemented during the operational
lifetime of the project and reviewed as specified within the plan, following
cable burial surveys, or as instructed by the MMO.

###### Reporting of impact pile driving/detonation of explosives

19

19.1

Only when driven or part-driven pile foundations or detonation of explosives
are proposed to be used as part of the foundation installation the undertaker
must provide the following information to the Marine Noise Registry—

19.1.a

prior to the commencement of the licenced activities, information on the
expected location, start and end dates of impact pile driving/detonation of
explosives to satisfy the Marine Noise Registry’s Forward Look requirements;

19.1.b

within 12 weeks of completion of impact pile driving/detonation of explosives,
information on the locations and dates of impact pile driving/detonation of
explosives to satisfy the Marine Noise Registry’s Close Out requirements

19.2

The undertaker must notify the MMO of the successful submission of Forward
Look or Close Out data pursuant to paragraph (1) above within 7 days of the
submission.

19.3

For the purpose of this condition—

19.3.a

“Marine Noise Registry”  means the database developed and maintained by JNCC
on behalf of Defra to record the spatial and temporal distribution of
impulsive noise generating activities in UK seas;

19.3.b

“Forward Look”  and  “Close Out”  requirements are as set out in the UK Marine
Noise Registry Information Document Version 1 (July 2015) or any updated
information document.

###### Scour protection and cable protection during operation

20

20.1

During the period of five years following the completion of construction the
undertaker must not install scour protection in locations where scour
protection was not installed during construction until the following
information has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with
the relevant statutory nature conservation body—

20.1.a

the need for and location of the scour protection;

20.1.b

the type and sources of scour protection proposed to be used;

20.1.c

the volume and area of scour protection proposed, together with details of the
total volume and area of scour protection installed under this licence;

20.1.d

installation methods for the scour protection; and

20.1.e

a report to confirm the Environmental Statement predictions in relation to the
potential impact of scour protection and that the data used is appropriate.

20.2

The information required under sub-paragraph (1) must be submitted to the MMO
for approval at least four months prior to the date on which scour protection
is intended for installation, unless otherwise agreed with the MMO.

20.3

The installation of such scour protection must be undertaken in accordance
with the details approved under sub-paragraph (1).

20.4

A close out report following each instance of installation of scour protection
approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be submitted to the MMO within three
months of completion of the activity.

20.5

Following the date of completion of construction, the undertaker must not
install scour protection in locations where scour protection was not installed
during construction unless approved under sub-paragraph (1).

20.6

During the period of five years following the completion of construction the
undertaker must not install cable protection in locations where cable
protection was not installed during construction until the following
information has been submitted to and approved by the MMO in consultation with
the relevant statutory nature conservation body—

20.6.a

the need for and location of the cable protection;

20.6.b

the type and sources of cable protection proposed to be used;

20.6.c

the volume and area of cable protection proposed, together with details of the
total volume and area of cable protection installed under this licence;

20.6.d

installation methods for the cable protection; and

20.6.e

a report to confirm the Environmental Statement predictions in relation to the
potential impact of cable protection and that the data used is appropriate.

20.7

The information required under sub-paragraph (6) must be submitted to the MMO
for approval at least four months prior to the date on which cable protection
is intended for installation, unless otherwise agreed with the MMO.

20.8

The installation of such cable protection must be undertaken in accordance
with the details approved under sub-paragraph (6).

20.9

A close out report following each instance of installation of cable protection
approved under sub-paragraph (6) must be submitted to the MMO within three
months of completion of the activity.

20.10

Following the date of completion of construction, the undertaker must not
install cable protection in locations where cable protection was not installed
during construction unless approved under sub-paragraph (6).

###### Co-operation

21

21.1

Prior to submission of plans and documentation required to be submitted to the
MMO for approval in accordance with conditions 12(1), 13(1) and 22(1), the
undertaker must provide a copy of the relevant plans and documentation to the
East Anglia TWO undertaker to enable the East Anglia TWO undertaker to provide
any comments on the plans and documentation to the undertaker.

21.2

The plans and documentation submitted to the MMO for approval in accordance
with conditions 12(1), 13(1) and 22(1) must be accompanied by any comments
received by the undertaker from the East Anglia TWO undertaker in accordance
with paragraph (1) or a statement from the undertaker confirming that no such
comments were received.

21.3

The undertaker must participate in liaison meetings with the East Anglia TWO
undertaker as requested from time to time by the MMO in writing in advance,
and such meetings will be chaired by the MMO and may consider such matters as
are determined by the MMO relating to the efficient management and discharge
of conditions 12(1), 13(1) and 22(1) of this licence and conditions 12(1),
13(1) and 22(1) of Schedule 14, Part 2 to the East Anglia TWO Order.

21.4

For the purposes of this condition—

“ East Anglia TWO authorised scheme ” means Work Nos. 1 to 6 of the East
Anglia TWO Order; “ East Anglia TWO Order ” means the East Anglia TWO Offshore
Wind Farm Order 2022; and “ East Anglia TWO undertaker ” means the undertaker
in respect of the East Anglia TWO authorised scheme.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan (Piling)

22

22.1

No piling activities can commence until a Site Integrity Plan (SIP), which
accords with the principles set out in the in principle East Anglia ONE North
Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan, has been submitted to, and
approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

22.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (SNS SAC)
as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to piling as set out within the JNCC Guidance and how this has been
considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

22.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to
commencement of piling activities.

22.4

In approving the SIP the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

###### Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation Site Integrity Plan (UXO clearance)

23

23.1

No removal or detonation of UXO can take place until a Site Integrity Plan
(SIP), which accords with the principles set out in the in principle East
Anglia ONE North Project Southern North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan, has been
submitted to, and approved in writing, by the MMO in consultation with the
relevant statutory nature conservation body.

23.2

The SIP submitted for approval must contain a description of the conservation
objectives for the Southern North Sea Special Area of Conservation (SNS SAC)
as well as any relevant management measures and it must set out the key
statutory nature conservation body advice on activities within the SNS SAC
relating to removal or detonation of UXO as set out within the JNCC Guidance
and how this has been considered in the context of the authorised scheme.

23.3

The SIP must be submitted to the MMO no later than six months prior to removal
or detonation of UXO being undertaken.

23.4

In approving the SIP the MMO must be satisfied that the authorised scheme at
the pre-construction stage, in-combination with other plans and projects, is
in line with the JNCC Guidance.

###### Control of piling and UXO detonations

24

24.1

The undertaker must not—

24.1.a

undertake pile driving in respect of more than one pile at the same time;

24.1.b

undertake more than one UXO detonation at the same time; or

24.1.c

undertake pile driving at the same time as undertaking a UXO detonation.

24.2

In the event that pile driving or UXO detonation is being carried out under
licence 1 (generation), the undertaker must not undertake pile driving or UXO
detonation under this licence at the same time.

24.3

During the winter period the undertaker must not carry out more than one pile
driving activity or UXO detonation within a 24 hour period under this licence,
alone or in-combination with pile driving or UXO detonations undertaken in
accordance with licence 1 (generation).

24.4

For the purpose of this condition—

“ winter period ” means the period between 1 October to 31 March inclusive.

###### Herring spawning

25

25.1

The undertaker must not undertake pile driving or UXO detonations during the
herring spawning period.

25.2

The “ herring spawning period ” means a period within 1 November and 31
January to be confirmed in writing by the MMO following submission of a
herring spawning report by the undertaker which analyses the International
Herring Larval Survey data for the periods 1-15 January and 16-31 January for
the preceding ten years in order to determine when the highest larval
densities occur and which includes a methodology for the analysis.

25.3

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the MMO, the report referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) must be submitted to the MMO at least six months prior to—

25.3.a

the date on which it is intended for UXO clearance activities to begin; or

25.3.b

the commencement of construction,

whichever is earlier.

###### Sediment sampling

26

26.1

The undertaker must not undertake dredge or disposal activities until the
following have been submitted to and approved in writing by the MMO—

26.1.a

details of an additional sediment contaminants sampling campaign; and

26.1.b

a dredge and disposal process report detailing—

26.1.b.i

the results of the sampling campaign referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a); and

26.1.b.ii

the requirements to be adhered to during any dredge and disposal activities.

26.2

Any dredge and disposal activities must be undertaken in accordance with the
dredge and disposal process report approved under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Completion of construction

27

27.1

The undertaker must submit a close out report to the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body confirming the date of completion of
construction within three months of the date of completion of construction.

27.2

Following completion of construction, no further construction activities can
be undertaken under this licence.

Arbitration Rules

Article 37

##### Primary objective

1

1.1

The primary objective of these Arbitration Rules is to achieve a fair,
impartial, final and binding award on the substantive difference between the
parties (save as to costs) within four months from the date the Arbitrator is
appointed pursuant to article  37  (arbitration) of the Order.

1.2

The Parties will first use their reasonable endeavours to settle a dispute
amicably through negotiations undertaken in good faith by the senior
management of the Parties. Any dispute which is not resolved amicably by the
senior management of the Parties within twenty business days of the dispute
arising, or such longer period as agreed in writing by the Parties, shall be
subject to arbitration in accordance with the terms of this Schedule.

1.3

The Arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced when a party (“the
Claimant”) serves a written notice of arbitration on the other party (“the
Respondent”).

##### Time periods

2

2.1

All time periods in these Arbitration Rules are measured in days and this will
include weekends but not bank holidays in England and Wales as defined in the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

2.2

Time periods are calculated from the day after the Arbitrator is appointed
which is either—

2.2.a

the date the Arbitrator notifies the parties in writing of his/her acceptance
of an appointment by agreement of the parties; or

2.2.b

the date the Arbitrator is appointed by the Secretary of State.

##### Timetable

3

3.1

The timetable for the Arbitration is set out in sub–paragraphs (2) to (4)
below unless amended in accordance with paragraph 5(3).

3.2

Within 14 days of the Arbitrator being appointed, the Claimant must provide
both the Respondent and the Arbitrator with—

3.2.a

a written Statement of Claim which describes the nature of the difference
between the parties, the legal and factual issues, the Claimant’s contentions
as to those issues, the amount of its claim and/or the remedy it is seeking;
and

3.2.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports.

3.3

Within 14 days of receipt of the Claimant’s statements under sub–paragraph (2)
by the Arbitrator and Respondent, the Respondent must provide the Claimant and
the Arbitrator with—

3.3.a

a written Statement of Defence responding to the Claimant’s Statement of
Claim, its statement in respect of the nature of the difference, the legal and
factual issues in the Claimant’s claim, its acceptance of any element(s) of
the Claimant’s claim, its contentions as to those elements of the Claimant’s
claim it does not accept;

3.3.b

all statements of evidence and copies of all documents on which it relies,
including contractual documentation, correspondence (including electronic
documents), legal precedents and expert witness reports;

3.3.c

any objections it wishes to make to the Claimant’s statements, comments on the
Claimant’s expert report(s) (if submitted by the Claimant) and explanations
for the objections.

3.4

Within 7 days of the Respondent serving its statements under sub–paragraph
(3), the Claimant may make a Statement of Reply by providing both the
Respondent and the Arbitrator with—

3.4.a

a written statement responding to the Respondent’s submissions, including its
reply in respect of the nature of the difference, the issues (both factual and
legal) and its contentions in relation to the issues;

3.4.b

all statements of evidence and copies of documents in response to the
Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.c

any expert report in response to the Respondent’s submissions;

3.4.d

any objections to the statements of evidence, expert reports or other
documents submitted by the Respondent;

3.4.e

its written submissions in response to the legal and factual issues involved.

##### Procedure

4

4.1

The seat, or place, of the arbitration shall be London, England, the governing
law shall be the laws of England and Wales and the language of the arbitration
proceedings shall be English. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance
with the Arbitration Act 1996 , save where modified by these Rules.

4.2

The Arbitrator must make an award on the substantive difference(s) based
solely on the written material submitted by the parties unless the Arbitrator
decides that a hearing is necessary to explain or resolve any matters.

4.3

Either party may, within 2 business days of delivery of the last submission,
request a hearing giving specific reasons why it considers a hearing is
required.

4.4

Within 7 days of receiving the last submission, the Arbitrator must notify the
parties whether a hearing is to be held and the length of that hearing.

4.5

Within 10 days of the Arbitrator advising the parties that he is to hold a
hearing, the date and venue for the hearing must be fixed by agreement with
the parties, save that if there is no agreement the Arbitrator must direct a
date and venue which he considers is fair and reasonable in all the
circumstances. The date for the hearing must not be less than 35 days from the
date of the Arbitrator’s direction confirming the date and venue of the
hearing.

4.6

A decision must be made by the Arbitrator on whether there is any need for
expert evidence to be submitted orally at the hearing. If oral expert evidence
is required by the Arbitrator, then any expert(s) attending the hearing may be
asked questions by the Arbitrator.

4.7

There is no process of examination and cross-examination of experts, but the
Arbitrator shall invite the parties to ask questions of the experts by way of
clarification of any answers given by the expert(s) in response to the
Arbitrator’s questions. Prior to the hearing the procedure for the expert(s)
is—

4.7.a

at least 28 days before a hearing, the Arbitrator must provide a list of
issues to be addressed by the expert(s);

4.7.b

if more than one expert is called, they are to jointly confer and produce a
joint report or reports within 14 days of the issues being provided; and

4.7.c

the form and content of a joint report must be as directed by the Arbitrator
and must be provided at least 7 days before the hearing.

4.8

Within 14 days of a Hearing or a decision by the Arbitrator that no hearing is
to be held the Parties may by way of exchange provide the Arbitrator with a
final submission in connection with the matters in dispute and any submissions
on costs. The Arbitrator must take these submissions into account in the
award.

4.9

Where a party requests an expedited procedure, accompanied by an evidenced
reason for expedition, the Arbitrator may vary the timescales in   sub-
paragraphs   (3), (4), (5) and (7), but where a party does so, the Arbitrator
must provide an opportunity for parties objecting to the effects of an
expedited procedure to provide written submissions on that point and may
decide to revert to standard timescales in response to such submissions. Where
an expedited procedure is sustained, the Arbitrator must set out their reasons
for acceding to an expedited timetable in writing, to be given alongside their
award.

4.10

The Arbitrator may make other directions or rulings as considered appropriate
in order to ensure that the parties comply with the timetable and procedures
to achieve an award on the substantive difference within four months of the
date on which they are appointed, unless both parties otherwise agree to an
extension to the date for the award.

4.11

If a party fails to comply with the timetable, procedure or any other
direction then the Arbitrator may continue in the absence of a party or
submission or document, and may make a decision on the information before them
attaching the appropriate weight to any evidence submitted beyond any
timetable or in breach of any procedure and/or direction.

4.12

The Arbitrator’s award must include reasons. The parties must accept that the
extent to which reasons are given shall be proportionate to the issues in
dispute and the time available to the Arbitrator to deliver the award.

##### Arbitrator’s powers

5

5.1

The Arbitrator has all the powers of the Arbitration Act 1996, including the
non-mandatory sections, save where modified by these Rules.

5.2

There must be no discovery or disclosure, except that the Arbitrator has the
power to order the parties to produce such documents as are reasonably
requested by another party no later than the Statement of Reply, or by the
Arbitrator, where the documents are manifestly relevant, specifically
identified and the burden of production is not excessive. Any application and
orders are to be made by way of a Redfern Schedule without any hearing.

5.3

Any time limits fixed in accordance with this procedure or by the Arbitrator
may be varied by agreement between the parties, subject to any such variation
being acceptable to and approved by the Arbitrator. In the absence of
agreement, the Arbitrator may vary the timescales and/or procedure—

5.3.a

if the Arbitrator is satisfied that a variation of any fixed time limit is
reasonably necessary to avoid a breach of the rules of natural justice and
then;

5.3.b

only for such a period that is necessary to achieve fairness between the
parties.

5.4

On the date the award is made, the Arbitrator must notify the parties that the
award is completed, signed and dated, and that it is to be issued to the
parties on receipt of cleared funds for the Arbitrator’s fees and expenses.

##### Costs

6

6.1

The costs of the Arbitration must include the fees and expenses of the
Arbitrator, the reasonable fees and expenses of any experts and the reasonable
legal and other costs incurred by the parties for the Arbitration.

6.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3), the Arbitrator will award recoverable costs on
the general principle that each party should bear its own costs.

6.3

The Arbitrator may depart from the general principle in sub-paragraph (2) and
make such other costs award as it considers reasonable where a party has
behaved unreasonably as defined within the National Planning Practice Guidance
or such other guidance as may replace it.

##### Confidentiality

7

7.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2), (3) and (4), any arbitration hearing and
documentation shall be open to and accessible by the public.

7.2

Where the Arbitration relates to a dispute or difference under the provisions
of Schedule 10, the hearings must take place in private unless otherwise
agreed between the parties and any matters, materials, documents, awards,
expert reports and the like are confidential and must not be disclosed to any
third party without prior written consent of the other party.

7.3

The Arbitrator may direct that the whole or part of a hearing is to be private
and/or any documentation to be confidential where it is necessary in order to
protect commercially sensitive information.

7.4

Nothing in this paragraph shall prevent any disclosure of a document by a
party pursuant to an order of a court in England and Wales or where disclosure
is required under any enactment.

##### Conservatory and Interim Measures

8

8.1

Unless the parties have otherwise agreed, after the arbitration has commenced,
the Arbitrator may, at the request of either party, order any conservatory or
interim measure it deems appropriate. Any conservatory or interim measure
shall be in the form of an order, giving reasons, or of an award, as the
Arbitrator considers appropriate.

8.2

Unless the parties have otherwise agreed, either party may apply to the courts
of England and Wales for conservatory or interim measures.

8.3

Such application by a party shall not be deemed to be an infringement or a
waiver of the arbitration agreement, and shall not affect the relevant powers
reserved to the Arbitrator.

Procedure for discharge of requirements

Article 38

##### Applications made for certain approvals

1

1.1

Where an application has been made to a discharging authority for any consent,
agreement or approval required or contemplated by any of the requirements
within Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements) to this Order—

1.1.a

the undertaker must give the discharging authority sufficient information to
identify the requirement(s) to which the application relates; and

1.1.b

the undertaker must provide such particulars, plans and drawings as are
reasonably considered necessary to deal with the application.

1.2

The discharging authority must give notice to the undertaker of its decision
on the application before the end of the decision period.

1.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, the decision period is—

1.3.a

where no further information is requested under paragraph  2  (further
information), 56 days from the day immediately following that on which the
application is received by the discharging authority;

1.3.b

where further information is requested under paragraph  2  (further
information) 42 days from the day immediately following that on which the
further information has been supplied by the undertaker under paragraph  2 ;
or

1.3.c

such longer period as may be agreed by the undertaker and the discharging
authority in writing before the end of the period in sub-paragraph  (a)  or
(b) .

##### Further information

2

2.1

In relation to any application to which this Schedule applies, the discharging
authority has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is reasonably necessary to enable it to consider the
application.

2.2

If the discharging authority considers such further information to be
necessary it must, as soon as reasonably practicable and within 20 business
days of receipt of the application notify the undertaker in writing specifying
the further information required.

2.3

If the discharging authority does not give such notification as specified in
sub-paragraph  (2)  it is to be deemed to have sufficient information to
consider the application and is not subsequently entitled to request further
information without the prior agreement of the undertaker.

2.4

A discharging authority may request further information under sub-paragraph
(1) on more than one occasion provided that all such requests are made within
the period specified by sub-paragraph  (2) .

##### Appeals

3

3.1

The undertaker may appeal to the Secretary of State in the event that—

3.1.a

the discharging authority refuses an application for any consent, agreement or
approval required or contemplated by a requirement contained within Part 3 of
Schedule 1 (requirements) to this Order or grants it subject to conditions to
which the undertaker objects;

3.1.b

the discharging authority does not give notice of its decision to the
undertaker within the decision period specified in paragraph 1 (applications
made for certain approvals);

3.1.c

on receipt of a request for further information under paragraph  2  (further
information) the undertaker considers that either the whole or part of the
specified information requested by the discharging authority is not necessary
for consideration of the application; or

3.1.d

on receipt of any further information requested, the discharging authority
notifies the undertaker that the information provided is inadequate and
requests additional information which the undertaker considers is not
necessary for consideration of the application.

3.2

The appeal process is as follows—

3.2.a

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State,
which must include a copy of the application submitted to the discharging
authority and any supporting documentation which the undertaker may wish to
provide;

3.2.b

the undertaker must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation
to the discharging authority and the relevant consultees (if applicable);

3.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, but in any
event within 28 business days of receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person to determine the appeal (“ the
appointed person ”) and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person and the address to which all correspondence for that person’s
attention should be sent;

3.2.d

the discharging authority and the relevant consultees must submit written
representations to the appointed person in respect of the appeal within 20
business days of the date on which the appeal parties are notified of the
appointment of a person under sub-paragraph (c) and must ensure that copies of
their written representations are sent to each other and to the undertaker on
the day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

3.2.e

the appeal parties shall make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 20 business days of receipt of written representations pursuant to sub-
paragraph  (d)  above.

3.3

The appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable and within 40 business days
of—

3.3.a

the deadline within sub-paragraph  (2)(e) ; or

3.3.b

the deadline for written submissions in respect of further information
submitted in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5) ,

whichever is later.

3.4

If the appointed person considers that further information is necessary to
enable consideration of the appeal the appointed person must, as soon as
practicable, and within 10 business days of the deadline for submissions in
accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)(e) , or where further information has
already been requested, within 10 business days of the deadline for written
submissions in accordance sub-paragraph  (5) , notify the appeal parties in
writing specifying the further information required, the appeal party from
whom the information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

3.5

Any further information required under sub-paragraph  (4)  is to be provided
by the party from whom the information is sought to the appointed person and
to other appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed person. Any
written representations concerning matters contained in the further
information must be submitted to the appointed person, and made available to
all appeal parties within 10 business days of that date.

3.6

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

3.6.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

3.6.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the discharging authority (whether
the appeal relates to that part of it or not), and may deal with the
application as if it had been made to the appointed person in the first
instance.

3.7

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within those time limits if it appears to the
appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision to be
made.

3.8

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is to be final and binding
on the appeal parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning
the decision only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial
review.

3.9

If an approval is given by the appointed person under this Schedule, it is
deemed to be an approval for the purpose of any consent, agreement or approval
required under Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements) as if it had been given by
the discharging authority.

3.10

Except where a direction is given under sub-paragraph  (11)  requiring the
costs of the appointed person to be paid by the discharging authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person are to be met by the undertaker.

3.11

On application by the discharging authority or the undertaker, the appointed
person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal parties and as to the
parties by whom the costs of the appeal are to be paid. In considering whether
to make any such direction and the terms on which it is to be made, the
appointed person must have regard to Planning Practice Guidance on the award
of costs or any circular or guidance which may from time to time replace it.

##### Interpretation of Schedule 16

4

In this Schedule—

“ the appeal parties ” means the discharging authority, the undertaker and any
relevant consultees. “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or
Sunday which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section
1 of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971; “ discharging authority ”
means the body responsible for giving consent, agreement or approval pursuant
to a requirement within Part 3 of Schedule 1 (requirements) to this Order; “
relevant consultee ” means any body named in a requirement which is required
to be consulted by the discharging authority in discharging that requirement.

Documents to be certified

Article 36

##### Documents forming the environmental statement to be certified

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) Document Reference (and relevant ES Chapters) Examination
Library Reference (and relevant ES Chapter reference) Document Name Version
Date 6.1 APP-049 to APP-079 Environmental Statement 1 25 October 2019 6.2
APP-080 to APP-441 Figures 1 25 October 2019 6.3 APP-442 to APP-571 Technical
Appendices 1 25 October 2019 ExA.WQ-1.A10.D1.V1 (Chapter 6) REP1-099 (APP-054)
Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 10 Landfall Indicative HDD Working Area
1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A11.D1.V1 (Chapter 6) REP1-100 (APP-054)
Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 11 Landfall HDD Cross Sections 1
Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-13.D6.V1 (Chapter 6) REP6-024 (APP-054) HDD
Verification Clarification Note 1 Deadline 6 24 February 2021
ExA.WQ-1.A6.D1.V1 (Chapter 6) REP1-090 (APP-054) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1
Appendix 6 Illustrative Open Trench and Trenchless Onshore Cable Route 1
Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A7.D1.V1 (Chapter 6) REP1-091 (APP-054)
Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 7 Onshore Crossing Schedule 1 Deadline 1
2 November 2020 ExA.AS-10.D3.V1 (Chapter 6) REP3-056 (APP-054) Onshore Cable
Route Works Programme Clarification Note 1 Deadline 3 15 December 2020
ExA.AS-11.D3.V1 (Chapter 6) (Chapter 29) REP3-057 (APP-054) (APP-077) Onshore
Substations Update Clarification Note 1 Deadline 3 15 December 2020
ExA.AS-12.D3.V1 (Chapter 6) REP3-058 (APP-054) Construction in Proximity to
Properties 1 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 6.3.6.2 (Chapter 6) REP8-015
(APP-054) EA1N Environmental Statement Appendix 6.2 Relationship of Onshore
Plans Secured by the DCO 5 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 6.3.6.3 (Chapter 6)
REP8-016 (APP-054) EA1N Environmental Statement Appendix 6.3 Relationship of
Offshore Plans Secured by the DCO 5 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 6.3.6.4 (Chapter
6) REP3-020 (APP-054) EA1N Environmental Statement Appendix 6.4 Cumulative
Project Description 2 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 ExA.RRA6.D0.V1 (Chapters 7
to 17) AS-043 (APP-055 to APP-065) Applicant’s Comments on Relevant
Representations   ... Appendix 6 Disposal Site Locations (Windfarm Site) 1 11
June 2020 ExA.RRA2.D0.V1 (Chapter 7) AS-039 (APP-055)   Applicant’s Comments
on Relevant Representations    ... Appendix 2 Wave Climatology Clarification
Note 1 11 June 2020 ExA.AS-13.D3.V1 (Chapter 7) (Chapter 9) (Chapter 10)
(Chapter 12) REP3-059 (APP-055) (APP-057) (APP-058) (APP-060) Effects on
Supporting Habitats of Outer Thames Estuary SPA Clarification Note 1 Deadline
3 15 December 2020 ExA.RRA3.D0.V1 (Chapter 10) AS-040 (APP-058)   Applicant’s
Comments on Relevant Representations    ... Appendix 3 Fish and Shellfish
Ecology Clarification Note 1 11 June 2020 ExA.AS-5.D11.V2 (Chapter 11)
REP11-045   (APP-059)   Underwater Noise Modelling  Report Update   Update 2
Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-3.D2.V1 (Chapter 12) REP2-006 (APP-060)
Cumulative Auk Displacement  and , Seabird Assemblage Assessment of FFC SPA
and Gannet PVA 1 Deadline 2 17 November 2020 ExA.AS-2.D11.V5 (Chapter 12)
REP11-026 (APP-060) Displacement of red-throated divers in the Outer Thames
Estuary SPA 5 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-20.D1.V1 (Chapter 19) (Chapter
26) REP1-040 (APP-067) (APP-074) Deadline 1 Air Quality Clarification Note 1
Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-16.D3.V1 (Chapter 19) REP3-061 (APP-067)
Deadline 3 Air Quality Clarification Note 1 Deadline 3 15 December 2020
ExA.WQ-1.A8.D1.V1 (Chapter 20) REP1-092 (APP-068) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1
Appendix 8 Environment Agency Flood Zones 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020
ExA.AS-9.D4.V2 (Chapter 20) REP4-044 (APP-068)   Clarification Note  SuDS
Infiltration Note 2 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-12.D6.V1 (Chapter
18)(Chapter 20) REP6-021 (APP-066) (APP-068) Landfall Hydrogeological Risk
Assessment 1 Deadline 6 24 February 2021 ExA.AS-13.D8.V1 (Chapter 20) REP8-038
(APP-068) Flood Risk and Drainage Clarification Note 1 Deadline 8 25 March
2021 ExA.AS-11.D1.V1 (Chapter 21) REP1-022 (APP-069) Land Use Clarification
Note 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A4.D1.V1 (Chapter 22) REP1-088
(APP-070) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 4 Ecological Mitigation Works
1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-12.D1.V1 (Chapter 22) REP1-023 (APP-070)
Onshore Ecology Clarification Note 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020
ExA.AS-16.D1.V1 (Chapter 22) REP1-035 (APP-070) Ecological Enhancement
Clarification Note 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-14.D3.V1 (Chapter 22)
REP3-060 (APP-070) Deadline 3 Onshore Ecology Clarification Note 1 Deadline 3
15 December 2020 ExA.AS-10.D4.V1 (Chapter 22) REP4-005 (APP-070) Deadline 4
Onshore Ecology Clarification Note 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-14.D6.V1 (Chapter 22) REP6-025 (APP-070) Deadline 6 Onshore Ecology
Clarification Note 1 Deadline 6 24 February 2021 ExA.AS-28.D6.V1 (Chapter 22)
REP6-035 (APP-070) Ecology Survey Results: February 2021 1 Deadline 6 24
February 2021 ExA.AS-16.D8.V1 (Chapter 22) REP8-041 (APP-070) Ecological
Enhancement Clarification Note Addendum 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-10.D1.V1 (Chapter 24) (Chapter 29) REP1-021 (APP-072) (APP-077)
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage Clarification Note 1 Deadline 1 2 November
2020 ExA.AS-13.D1.V1 (Chapter 24) REP1-024 (APP-072) Pre-Construction Trial
Trenching Report 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-14.D1.V1 (Chapter 24)
REP1-025 to REP1-033 (APP-072) Onshore Archaeology Geophysical Survey Report
(Parts 1 to 9) 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-15.D1.V1 (Chapter 24)
REP1-034 (APP-072) Onshore Archaeology Earthworks Report 1 Deadline 1 2
November 2020 ExA.AS-29.D8.V1 (Chapter 24) REP8-063 (APP-072) Cultural
heritage Viewpoint 5 Additional Visualisation 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-16.D3.V1 (Chapter 24) (Chapter 29) REP3-062 to REP3-068 (APP-072)
(APP-077) Updated Photomontages Clarification Note 1 Deadline 3 15 December
2020 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1 (Chapter 24) REP4-006 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment
Addendum 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_001 (Chapter 24)
REP4-007 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment Addendum Appendix 1 CHVP2 –PRoW between
Friston Hall and Friston (Appendix 24.7, Figure 7 Update)   1   Deadline 4 13
January 2021 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_002 (Chapter 24) REP4-008 (APP-072) Heritage
Assessment Addendum Appendix 2 CHVP3 – PRoW between Moor Farm and Little Moor
Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure 8 Update)   1   Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_003 (Chapter 24) REP4-009 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment
Addendum Appendix 3 CHVP4 – PRoW to east of Little Moor Farm (Appendix 24.7,
Figure 9 Update)   1   Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_004 (Chapter
24) REP4-010 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment Addendum Appendix 4 CHVP5 – PRoW at
Woodside Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure 10 Update)   1   Deadline 4 13 January
2021 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_005 (Chapter 24) REP4-011 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment
Addendum Appendix 5 CHVP7 – Friston House (b) (Appendix 24.7, Figure 12
Update)   1   Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-11.D4.V1_006 (Chapter 24)
REP4-012 (APP-072) Heritage Assessment Addendum Appendix 6 CHVP8 – Friston War
Memorial (Appendix 24.7, Figure 13 Update)   1   Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-30.D11.V1   (Chapter 24) REP11-075 Heritage Assessment GIS Addendum 1
Deadline 11 7 June 2021   ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_01   (Chapter 24) REP11-076
Heritage Assessment GIS Addendum App 1 CHVP2 App 24.7 Fig 7 Update 1 Deadline
11 7 June 2021   ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_02   (Chapter 24) REP11-077 Heritage
Assessment GIS Addendum App 2 CHVP3 App 24.7 Fig 8 Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June
2021   ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_03   (Chapter 24) REP11-078 Heritage Assessment GIS
Addendum App 3 CHVP4 App 24.7 Fig 9 Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_04 (Chapter 24) REP11-054 Heritage Assessment GIS Addendum
App 4 CHVP5 App 24.7 Fig 10 Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_05   (Chapter 24) REP11-079 Heritage Assessment GIS Addendum
App 5 CHVP7 App 24.7 Fig 12 Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-30.D11.V1_06   (Chapter 24) REP11-080 Heritage Assessment GIS Addendum
App 6 CHVP8 App 24.7 Fig 13 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-14.D8.V1 (Chapter
25) REP8-039 (APP-073) Applicants’ Position Statement on Noise 1 Deadline 8 25
March 2021 ExA.AS-8.D2.V1 (Chapter 25) REP2-011 (APP-073) Noise and Vibration
Assessment Clarification Note 1 Deadline 2 17 November 2020 ExA.AS-8.D4.V1
(Chapter 25) REP4-043 (APP-073) Noise Modelling Clarification Note 1 Deadline
4 13 January 2021 ExA.WQ-1.A14.D1.V1 (Chapter 26) REP1-103 (APP-074)
Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 14 Junction Locations 1 Deadline 1 2
November 2020 ExA.AS-8.D1.V1 (Chapter 26) REP1-048 (APP-074) Traffic and
Transport Clarification Note for Deadline 1 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020
ExA.AS-6.D6.V2 (Chapter 26) REP6-043 (APP-074) Sizewell C Cumulative Impact
Assessment Note (Traffic and Transport) 2 Deadline 6 24 February 2021
ExA.AS-9.D3.V1 (Chapter 26) REP3-055 (APP-074) Traffic and Transport
Clarification Note for Deadline 3 1 Deadline 3 15 December 2020
ExA.AS-26.D4.V1 (Chapter 26) REP4-027 (APP-074) Traffic and Transport Deadline
4 Clarification Note 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-9.D1.V1 (Chapters 27
to 30) REP1-049 (APP-075 to APP-078) Public Rights of Way Clarification Note 1
Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-5.D2.V1 (Chapter 28) (Chapter 29) REP2-008
(APP-076) (APP-077) Effects with Regard to the Statutory Purposes of the
Suffolk Coast and Heaths Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty and Accordance
with NPS Policy 1 Deadline 2 17 November 2020 ExA.AS-33.D8.V1 (Chapter 28)
REP8-075 (APP-076) Landscape and Visual: Sizewell C Cumulative Impact
Assessment 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.WQ-1.A9.1.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-093 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.1 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 1 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A9.2.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-094 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.2 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 3 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A9.3.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-095 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.3 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 4 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A9.4.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-096 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.4 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 5 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A9.5.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-097 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.5 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 8 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A9.6.D1.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP1-098 (APP-077) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 9.6 EA1N Annotated
Viewpoint 14 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.AS-7.D2.V1 (Chapter 29) REP2-010
(APP-077) Sizewell C Cumulative Impact Assessment Note (Landscape and Visual)
1 Deadline 2 17 November 2020 ExA.AS-3.D4.V1 (Chapter 29) REP4-031 (APP-077)
Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment Addendum 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_001 (Chapter 29) REP4-032 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment Addendum Appendix 1 Viewpoint 1 – Public Right of Way (PRoW) near
Friston House (Figure 29.13 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_002 (Chapter 29) REP4-033 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment Addendum Appendix 2 Viewpoint 2 – Friston, Church Road (Figure
29.14 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_003 (Chapter 29)
REP4-034 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment Addendum Appendix 3
Viewpoint 3 – Grove Road, near Pear Tree Farm (Figure 29.15 Update) 1 Deadline
4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_004 (Chapter 29) REP4-035 (APP-077) Landscape
and Visual Impact Assessment Addendum Appendix 4 Viewpoint 4 – Grove Road,
near Church Road (Friston) (Figure 29.16 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_005 (Chapter 29) REP4-036 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment Addendum Appendix 5 Viewpoint 5 – PRoW near Moor Farm (Figure 29.17
Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_006 (Chapter 29) REP4-037
(APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment Addendum Appendix 6 Viewpoint
6 – Friston, Village Green (Figure 29.18 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021
ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_007 (Chapter 29) REP4-038 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact
Assessment Addendum Appendix 7 Viewpoint 8 – Saxmundham Road (North of
Friston) (Figure 29.20 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-3.D4.V1_008
(Chapter 29) REP4-039 (APP-077) Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment
Addendum Appendix 8 Viewpoint 9 – B1121 Aldeburgh Road, south of Friston
(Figure 29.21 Update) 1 Deadline 4 13 January 2021 ExA.AS-6.D7.V1 (Chapter 29)
REP7-062 (APP-077) Updated Figure 29.37- Viewpoint 5 Public Rights of Way,
near Moor Farm (with National Grid GIS Substation) 1 Deadline 7 4 March 2021
ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_01 (Chapter 29) REP8-055 (APP-077) National Grid GIS
Substation Photomontages: Figure 29.13 Update Viewpoint 1 Public Rights of Way
near Friston House 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_02 (Chapter 29)
REP8-056 (APP-077) National Grid GIS Substation Photomontages: Figure 29.14
Update Viewpoint 2 Friston, Church Road 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_03 (Chapter 29) REP8-057 (APP-077) National Grid GIS
Substation Photomontages: Figure 29.17 Update Viewpoint 5 Public Rights of
Way, near Moor Farm 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_04 (Chapter 29)
REP8-058 (APP-077) National Grid GIS Substation Photomontages: Figure 29.20
Update Viewpoint 8 Saxmundham Road (North of Friston) 1 Deadline 8 25 March
2021 ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_05 (Chapter 29) REP8-059 (APP-077) National Grid GIS
Substation Photomontages: Figure 29.21 Update Viewpoint 9: B1121 Aldeburgh
Road (south of Friston) 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_06 (Chapter
29) REP8-060 (APP-077) National Grid GIS Substation Photomontages: CHVP3 –
PRoW between Moor Farm and Little Moor Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure 8-Update) 1
Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_07 (Chapter 29) REP8-061 (APP-077)
National Grid GIS Substation Photomontages: CHVP4 – PRoW to east of Little
Moor Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure 9-Update) 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-28.D8.V1_08 (Chapter 29) REP8-062 (APP-077) National Grid GIS
Substation Photomontages: CHVP5 – PRoW at Woodside Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure
10-Update) 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-30.D8.V1_01 (Chapter 29) REP8-066
(APP-077) Different colour schemes for Substations Design Principles
Statement: Viewpoint 1 Public Rights of Way near Friston House 1 Deadline 8 25
March 2021 ExA.AS-30.D8.V1_02 (Chapter 29) REP8-067 (APP-077) Different colour
schemes for Substations Design Principles Statement: Viewpoint 2 Friston,
Church Road 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-30.D8.V1_03 (Chapter 29)
REP8-068 (APP-077) Different colour schemes for Substations Design Principles
Statement: Viewpoint 9 – B1121 Aldeburgh Road, south of Friston 1 Deadline 8
25 March 2021 ExA.AS-31.D8.V1_01 (Chapter 29) REP8-071 (APP-077) Viewpoint
Photomontages with Potential National Grid Extension Bays: Figure 29.14 Update
Viewpoint 2 Friston, Church Road 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-31.D8.V1_02
(Chapter 29) REP8-072 (APP-077) Viewpoint Photomontages with Potential
National Grid Extension Bays: Figure 29.17 Update Viewpoint 5 Public Rights of
Way, near Moor Farm 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-31.D8.V1_03 (Chapter 29)
REP8-073 (APP-077) Viewpoint Photomontages with Potential National Grid
Extension Bays: Figure 29.20 Update Viewpoint 8 Saxmundham Road (North of
Friston) 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-31.D8.V1_04 (Chapter 29) REP8-069
(APP-077) Viewpoint Photomontages with Potential National Grid Extension Bays:
CHVP3 – PRoW between Moor Farm and Little Moor Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure
8-Update) 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-31.D8.V1_05 (Chapter 29) REP8-070
(APP-077) Viewpoint Photomontages with Potential National Grid Extension Bays:
CHVP4 – PRoW to east of Little Moor Farm (Appendix 24.7, Figure 9-Update) 1
Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-32.D8.V1 (Chapter 29) REP8-074 (APP-077)
Extension of National Grid Substation Appraisal 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1 (Chapter 29) REP11-028 Landscape and Visual Impact Assessment
GIS Addendum 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_01 (Chapter 29)
REP11-029 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 1 Viewpoint 1 Figure 29.13 GIS Update 1
Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_02 (Chapter 29) REP11-030 LVIA GIS
Addendum Appendix 2 Viewpoint 2 Figure 29.14 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June
2021 ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_03 (Chapter 29) REP11-031 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 3
Viewpoint 3 Figure 29.15 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_04 (Chapter 29) REP11-032 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 4
Viewpoint 4 Figure 29.16 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_05 (Chapter 29) REP11-033 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 5
Viewpoint 5 Figure 29.17 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_06 (Chapter 29) REP11-034 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 6
Viewpoint 6 Figure 29.18 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_07 (Chapter 29) REP11-035 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 7
Viewpoint 8 Figure 29.20 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_08 (Chapter 29) REP11-036 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 8
Viewpoint 9 Figure 29.21 GIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_09 (Chapter 29) REP11-037 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 9
Viewpoint 1 Figure 29.13 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_10 (Chapter 29) REP11-038 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 10
Viewpoint 2 Figure 29.14 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_11 (Chapter 29) REP11-039 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 11
Viewpoint 3 Figure 29.15 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_12 (Chapter 29) REP11-040 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 12
Viewpoint 4 Figure 29.16 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_13 (Chapter 29) REP11-041 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 13
Viewpoint 5 Figure 29.17 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_14 (Chapter 29) REP11-042 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 14
Viewpoint 6 Figure 29.18 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_15 (Chapter 29) REP11-043 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 15
Viewpoint 8 Figure 29.20 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
ExA.AS-4.D11.V1_16 (Chapter 29) REP11-044 LVIA GIS Addendum Appendix 16
Viewpoint 9 Figure 29.21 AIS Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-17.D1.V1
(Chapter 30) REP1-036 (APP-078) Socio-Economics and Tourism Clarification Note
(SZC CIA) 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 ExA.WQ-1.A13.D1.V1 (Chapter 30)
REP1-102 (APP-078) Applicants’ Responses to WQ1 Appendix 13 Tourism Impact
Review 1 Deadline 1 2 November 2020 5.3 APP-043 Habitat Regulations Assessment
- Information to Support the Appropriate Assessment Report 1 25 October 2019
5.3.1 APP-044 Habitat Regulations Assessment - Appendix 1 - Information to
Support AA Report - HRA Screening Report 1 25 October 2019 5.3.2 REP3-016
Habitat Regulations Assessment Appendix 2 – Information to Support AA Report –
Screening Matrices 3 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 5.3.3 APP-046 Habitat
Regulations Assessment - Appendix 3 - Information to Support AA Report -
Integrity Matrices 1 25 October 2019 ExA.AS-19.D1.V1 (Chapter 11) REP1-038
(APP-059) Information to Support AA – Addendum for Marine Mammals 1 Deadline 1
2 November 2020    ExA.AS-7.D1.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate
Assessment Report)  REP1-047 (APP-043 to APP-047)  Deadline 1 Offshore
Ornithology Cumulative and In Combination Collision Risk Update  1 Deadline 1
2 November 2020 ExA.AS-7.D4.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment
Report) REP4-042 (APP-043 to APP-047) Deadline 4 Offshore Ornithology
Cumulative and In Combination Collision Risk Update 1 Deadline 4 13 January
2021 ExA.AS-11.D8.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment Report)
REP8-035 (APP-043 to APP-047) Deadline 8 Offshore Ornithology Cumulative and
In Combination Collision Risk Update 1 Deadline 8 25 March 2021
ExA.AS-3.D11.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment Report)
REP11-027 (APP-043 to APP-047) Deadline 11 Offshore Ornithology Cumulative and
In Combination Collision Risk and Displacement Update 1 Deadline 11 7 June
2021 ExA.AS-8.D12.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment Report)
REP12-066 (APP-043 to APP-047)  Deadline 12 Offshore Ornithology Cumulative
and In Combination Collision Risk and Displacement Update 1 Deadline 13 5 July
2021 ExA.AS-12.D13.V1 (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment Report)
REP13-019 (APP-043 to APP-047) Deadline 13 Offshore Ornithology Cumulative and
In-Combination Collision Risk and Displacement Update 1 Deadline 13 5 July
2021   ExA.AS-3.SoSQ.V1  (Information to Support Appropriate Assessment
Report) (APP-043 to APP-047) Updated Offshore Ornithology Cumulative and In-
Combination Collision Risk and Displacement Assessment 1 30 November 2021

##### Other documents to be certified

(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) Document Reference Examination Library Reference Document
Name Version Date 2.2 REP11-003 Land Plans (onshore) 6 Deadline 11 7 June 2021
2.2.1 REP3-005 Land Plans (offshore) 3 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 2.3.1
REP3-007 Works Plans (offshore) 2 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 2.3.2 REP11-004
Works Plans (onshore) 7 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 2.4 REP12-004 Access to Works
Plan (Rev 2) 2 Deadline 12 28 June 2021 2.5 REP12-005 Temporary Stopping up of
Public Rights of Way Plan (Rev 4) 4 Deadline 12 28 June 2021 2.6 REP12-006
Permanent Stopping up of Public Rights of Way Plan (Rev 4) 3 Deadline 12 28
June 2021 2.10 REP12-012 Important Hedgerows and Tree Preservation Order Plan
(Rev 4) 4 Deadline 12 28 June 2021 2.12 REP3-004 Order limits boundary
coordinates plan (offshore) 2 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 4.3 REP12-019 Book
of Reference (Version 10) 10 Deadline 12 28 June 2021 8.1 . . . Outline Code
of Construction Practice ( Version 10 )   10     31 January 2022   8.4 AS-116
Outline Public Rights of Way Strategy 3 22 April 2021 8.5 REP6-005 Outline
Written Scheme of Investigation (Onshore Archaeology) 3 Deadline 6 24 February
2021 8.6 REP3-028 Outline Written Scheme of Investigation (Offshore) 2
Deadline 3 15 December 2020 8.7 . . . Outline Landscape and Ecological
Management Strategy    (Version 08)     8      31 January 2022   8.9 REP11-017
Outline Construction Traffic Management Plan 6 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 8.10
REP12-023 Outline Access Management Plan    (Version 07)   7 Deadline 12 28
June 2021 8.11 REP11-022 Outline Travel Plan 6 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 8.12
REP7-027 Outline Offshore Operations and Maintenance Plan 3 Deadline 7 4 March
2021 8.13 REP8-027 Offshore In Principle Monitoring Plan 4 Deadline 8 25 March
2021 8.14 REP8-029 Draft Marine Mammal Mitigation Protocol 4 Deadline 8 25
March 2021 8.17 REP8-031 In Principle East Anglia ONE North Project Southern
North Sea SAC Site Integrity Plan 4 Deadline 8 25 March 2021 8.18 APP-595
Outline Navigation Monitoring Strategy 1 25 October 2019 8.20 REP1-019 Outline
pre-commencement archaeology execution plan  (onshore)   2 Deadline 1 2
November 2020 ExA.AS-1.D12.V4 REP12-025 Outline Landfall Construction Method
Statement (Version 04) 4 Deadline 12 28 June 2021 ExA.AS-2.D12.V3 REP12-027
Outline SPA Crossing Method Statement (Version 03) 3 Deadline 12 28 June 2021
ExA.AS-6.D8.V2 REP8-086 Outline Sizewell Gap Construction Method Statement 2
Deadline 8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-5.D3.V2 REP3-050 Outline Fisheries Liaison and
Coexistence Plan 2 Deadline 3 15 December 2020 ExA.AS-4.D6.V3 REP6-039 Outline
Sabellaria  Reef Management Plan 3 Deadline 6 24 February 2021
ExA.AS-13.D13.V7    REP13-020 Outline Operational Drainage Management Plan
(Version 07)   7   Deadline 13 5 July 2021 ExA.AS- 5.D12.V5 REP12-062 Outline
Port Construction Traffic Management and Travel Plan (Version 05) 5 Deadline
12 28 June 2021 ExA.AS- 29.D11.V4 REP11-074 Outline Watercourse Crossing
Method Statement 4 Deadline 11 7 June 2021 ExA.AS-12.D8.V3 REP8-036 Best
Practice Protocol for Minimising Disturbance to Red-Throated Diver 3 Deadline
8 25 March 2021 ExA.AS-6.D11.V4 AS-133 Substations Design Principles Statement
(Rev 04)   4   ... 21 June 2021     ExA.AS-6.SoSQ2.V5    . . . Offshore
Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation Measures   5      31 January 2022
ExA.AS-35.D8.V2 REP8-077 Activity Exclusion Zones Plan 2 Deadline 8 25 March
2021 ExA.AS-15.D7.V1 REP7-037 Sizewell C Order Limits Interaction – Offshore
Plan 1 Deadline 7 4 March 2021 ExA.AS-34. D9.V2 REP9-031 Layout Principles
Statement 2 Deadline 9 15 April 2021

Offshore Ornithology Compensation Measures

Article 44

##### Flamborough and Filey Coast Special Protection Area: Kittiwake Compensation Measures

1

In this Part—

“ the kittiwake compensation plan ” means Appendix 1 of the Offshore
Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation Measures.

2

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the kittiwake compensation steering group (“ KCSG ”) has been submitted to and
approved by the Secretary of State. Such plan to include—

2.a

terms of Reference of the KCSG;

2.b

details of the membership of the KCSG;

2.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the
kittiwake implementation and monitoring plan (the “KIMP”) and reporting and
review periods; and

2.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

3

Following consultation with the KCSG, the KIMP must be submitted to and
approved by the Secretary of State (in consultation with the MMO, the local
planning authority for the land containing the artificial nest site, and the
relevant statutory nature conservation body). The KCSG must be consulted
further as required during the approval process. The KIMP must be based on the
strategy for kittiwake compensation set out in the kittiwake compensation plan
and include—

3.a

details of the location where compensation measures will be deployed, why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation, and details of agreements demonstrating how the land and/or
rights will or have been secured to deliver the ecology objectives of the
KIMP;

3.b

details of designs of the artificial nest site including the type of nesting
structure; and how risks from avian or mammalian predation and unauthorised
human access will be mitigated;

3.c

an implementation timetable for delivery of the artificial nest structure that
ensures relevant compensation measures are in place to allow four full
kittiwake breeding seasons prior to the operation of any wind turbine
generator forming part of the authorised development;

3.d

details of the proposed ongoing monitoring of the measures including: survey
methods; survey programmes; success criteria; recording of KCSG consultations
and project reviews; adaptive management measures and details of the factors
used to trigger alternative compensation measures and/or adaptive management
measures;

3.e

details of the artificial nesting site maintenance schedule; and

3.f

provision for annual reporting to the Secretary of State, to include details
of the number of birds colonising the site including: evidence of birds
prospecting; nesting attempts; egg laying; hatching; and fledging, to identify
barriers to breeding success and target alternative or adaptive management
measures.

4

The undertaker must not commence the authorised development unless it has
first—

4.a

provided a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

4.b

put in place either—

4.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

4.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

5

The undertaker must implement the measures as set out in the KIMP approved by
the Secretary of State, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of
State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body and
the relevant local planning authority. In particular, no operation of any
turbine forming part of the authorised development may begin until four full
breeding seasons following the implementation of the measures set out in the
KIMP have elapsed. For the purposes of this paragraph each breeding season is
assumed to have commenced on 1 March in each year and ended on 30 September.

6

The undertaker shall notify the Secretary of State of completion of
implementation of the measures set out in the KIMP.

7

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. This
must include details of any finding that the measures have been ineffective in
securing an increase in the number of adult kittiwakes available to recruit to
the SPA and, in such case, proposals to address this. Any proposals to address
effectiveness must thereafter be implemented by the undertaker as approved in
writing by the Secretary of State in consultation with the relevant statutory
nature conservation body.

8

The artificial nest structure must not be decommissioned without written
approval of the Secretary of State, in consultation with the relevant
statutory nature conservation body. The artificial nest structures shall be
maintained beyond the operational lifetime of the authorised development if
they are colonised, and routine and adaptive management measures and
monitoring must continue whilst the artificial nesting structures are in
place.

9

The KIMP approved under this Schedule includes any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State. Any amendments
to or variations of the approved KIMP must be in accordance with the
principles set out in the kittiwake compensation plan and may only be approved
where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State
that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects from those considered in the kittiwake compensation
plan.

10

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the
kittwake compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the provisions of
this Order shall prevail.

##### Alde-Ore Estuary Special Protection Area: Lesser black-backed gull Compensation Measures

1

In this Part—

“ the lesser black-backed gull compensation plan ” means Appendices 5 and 7 of
the Offshore Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation Measures.

2

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the lesser black-backed gull compensation steering group (“ LBBCSG ”) has been
submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State. Such plan to include—

2.a

terms of Reference of the LBBCSG;

2.b

details of the membership of the LBBCSG;

2.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the lesser
black-backed gull implementation and monitoring plan (the “LBBIMP”) and
reporting and review periods; and

2.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

3

Following consultation with the LBBCSG, the LBBIMP must be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval (in consultation with the MMO, the local
planning authority for any land containing the predator control fencing, and
the relevant statutory nature conservation body). The LBBCSG must be consulted
further as required during the approval process. The LBBIMP must be based on
the strategy for lesser black-backed gull compensation set out in the lesser
black-backed gull compensation plan and include—

3.a

details of the location where compensation measures will be deployed, why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation, and details of agreements demonstrating how any land and/or
rights will or have been secured to deliver the ecology objectives of the
LBBIMP;

3.b

details of designs of any predator control fencing including the type of
fencing and area and location of enclosure, and details of any other habitats
management measures;

3.c

an implementation timetable for delivery of any predator control fencing and
any other habitat management measures that ensures relevant compensation
measures are in place to allow four full lesser black-backed gull breeding
seasons prior to the operation of any wind turbine generator forming part of
the authorised development;

3.d

details of the proposed ongoing monitoring of the measures including: survey
methods; survey programmes; success criteria; recording of LBBCSG
consultations and project reviews; adaptive management measures and details of
the factors used to trigger alternative compensation measures and/or adaptive
management measures.;

3.e

details of the maintenance schedule for any predator proof fencing; and

3.f

details of the work in respect of ornithological by-catch measures as set out
in Appendix 7 of the Offshore Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation
Measures, that could support practical management measures to reduce
ornithological by-catch, and which would be undertaken alongside or in place
of the predator control fencing.

4

The undertaker must not commence the authorised development unless it has
first—

4.a

provided a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

4.b

put in place either—

4.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

4.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

5

The undertaker must implement the measures as set out in the LBBIMP approved
by the Secretary of State, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body
and the relevant local planning authority. In particular, no operation of any
turbine forming part of the authorised development may begin until four full
breeding seasons following the implementation of the measures set out in the
LBBIMP have elapsed. For the purposes of this paragraph each breeding season
is assumed to have commenced on 1 March in each year and ended on 30
September.

6

The undertaker shall notify the Secretary of State of completion of
implementation of the measures set out in the LBBIMP.

7

Results from the monitoring scheme must be submitted at least annually to the
Secretary of State and the relevant statutory nature conservation body. This
must include details of any finding that the measures have been ineffective in
securing an increase in the number of adult lesser black-backed gulls
available to recruit to the SPA and, in such case, proposals to address this.
Any proposals to address effectiveness must thereafter be implemented by the
undertaker as approved in writing by the Secretary of State in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

8

Any predator proof fencing installed must not be decommissioned without
written approval of the Secretary of State, in consultation with the relevant
statutory nature conservation body. The predator control fencing shall be
maintained beyond the operational lifetime of the authorised development if
the site is colonised. The routine and adaptive management measures and
monitoring should continue whilst the fencing is in place.

9

The LBBIMP approved under this Schedule includes any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State. Any amendments
to or variations of the approved LBBIMP must be in accordance with the
principles set out in the lesser black-backed gull compensation plan and may
only be approved where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the
Secretary of State that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects from those considered in the lesser
black-backed gull compensation plan.

10

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the lesser
black-backed gull compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the
provisions of this Order shall prevail.

##### Outer Thames Estuary Special Protection Area: Red-throated diver Compensation Measures

1

In this Part—

“ the red-throated diver compensation plan ” means Appendix 6 of the Offshore
Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation Measures.

2

The authorised development may not be commenced until a plan for the work of
the red-throated diver compensation steering group (“ RTDCSG ”) has been
submitted to and approved by the Secretary of State. Such plan to include—

2.a

terms of Reference of the RTDCSG;

2.b

details of the membership of the RTDCSG;

2.c

details of the schedule of meetings, timetable for preparation of the   red-
throated diver   implementation and monitoring plan (the “RTDIMP”) and
reporting and review periods; and

2.d

the dispute resolution mechanism.

3

Following consultation with the RTDCSG, the RTDIMP must be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval (in consultation with the MMO and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body). The RTDCSG must be consulted further as
required during the approval process. The RTDIMP must be based on the strategy
for red-throated diver compensation set out in the red-throated diver
compensation plan and include—

3.a

details of the location where compensation measures will be deployed, why the
location is appropriate ecologically and likely to support successful
compensation, and details of agreements demonstrating how the vessel route
diversions and/or exclusions will or have been secured to deliver the ecology
objectives of the RTDIMP;

3.b

an implementation timetable for delivery of the vessel route diversion and/or
exclusion compensation measures   that   ensures that the measures are in
place prior to the installation of any tower comprised within a wind turbine
generator forming part of the authorised development;

3.c

details in relation to the monitoring of red-throated diver abundance and
distribution using aerial digital surveys in the Outer Thames Estuary SPA and
a 10km buffer over two winters. Three surveys should take place each winter
(between 1st November and 31st March) with one batch to take place before the
installation of the turbines forming part of the authorised development and
the other batch to take place after;

3.d

details of the proposed ongoing monitoring of the measures including: survey
methods; survey programmes; success criteria; recording of RTDCSG
consultations and project reviews; details of the factors used to trigger
alternative compensation measures and/or adaptive management measures;

3.e

details in relation to the convening of a partnership with relevant
authorities and user representation to—

3.e.i

improve understanding of disturbance and displacement effects on red-throated
diver within the Outer Thames Estuary SPA;

3.e.ii

identify and implement opportunities to reduce these effects; and

3.e.iii

ensure stakeholder engagement and liaison to raise awareness and communicate
any proposed changes in usage; and

3.f

details of the work in respect of ornithological by-catch measures as set out
in Appendix 7 of the Offshore Ornithology Without Prejudice Compensation
Measures, that could support practical management measures to reduce
ornithological by-catch  ... .

4

The undertaker must not commence the authorised development unless it has
first—

4.a

provided a reasonable estimate of the cost of delivery of the compensation
measures; and

4.b

put in place either—

4.b.i

a guarantee in respect of the reasonable estimate of costs associated with the
delivery of the compensation measures; or

4.b.ii

an alternative form of security for that purpose,

that has been approved by the Secretary of State.

5

The undertaker must implement the measures as set out in the RTDIMP approved
by the Secretary of State unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary
of State in consultation with the relevant statutory nature conservation body
and the relevant local planning authority. No tower comprised within a wind
turbine generator forming part of the authorised development may be installed
until the implementation of relevant measures as set out in the RTDIMP.

6

The undertaker shall notify the Secretary of State of completion of
implementation of the measures set out in the RTDIMP. Once implemented, the
measures should remain in place throughout the operational lifetime of the
authorised development.

7

Results from the monitoring scheme and aerial digital surveys must be
submitted at least annually to the Secretary of State and the relevant
statutory nature conservation body. This must include details of any finding
that the measures have been ineffective in securing the maintenance of the
SPA’s conservation objectives and, in such case, proposals to address this.
Any proposals to address effectiveness must thereafter be implemented by the
undertaker as approved in writing by the Secretary of State in consultation
with the relevant statutory nature conservation body.

8

The RTDIMP approved under this Schedule includes any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State. Any amendments
to or variations of the approved RTDIMP must be in accordance with the
principles set out in the red-throated diver compensation plan and may only be
approved where it has been demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Secretary
of State that it is unlikely to give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects from those considered in the red-throated
diver compensation plan.

9

In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the terms of the red-
throated diver compensation plan and the provisions of this Order, the
provisions of this Order shall prevail.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

This Order grants development consent for, and authorises East Anglia ONE
North Limited to construct, operate and maintain a generating station located
in the North Sea approximately   38.4km from the port of Lowestoft and 37.9km
from Lowestoft   together with all necessary and associated development. For
the purposes of the development that it authorises East Anglia ONE North
Limited is authorised by the Order compulsorily or by agreement to purchase
land and rights in land to use land, as well as to override easements and
other rights. The Order also provides a defence in proceedings in respect of
statutory nuisance and to discharge water. The Order imposes requirements in
connection with the development for which it grants development consent.

The Order also grants deemed marine licences for the marine licensable
activities, being the deposit of substances and articles and the carrying out
of works, involved in the construction of the generating station and
associated development. The deemed marine licences impose conditions in
connection with the deposits and works for which they grant consent.

A copy of the plans and book of reference referred to in this Order and
certified in accordance with article  36  (certification of plans etc.) of
this Order may be inspected free of charge at East Suffolk Council Customer
Services at Woodbridge Library, New Street, Woodbridge IP12 1DT.

