Title: The Economic Crime (Anti-Money Laundering) Levy Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations make provision about the assessment, payment, collection and recovery of the economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy (“the levy”) which is charged in accordance with Part 3 of the Finance Act 2022 (c. 3) for the financial year beginning with April 2022 and subsequent financial years (see section 66 of the Finance Act 2022).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/269

## The Economic Crime (Anti-Money Laundering) Levy Regulations 2022

Economic Crime (anti-money Laundering) Levy

Made 10th March 2022

Laid before the House of Commons 11th March 2022

Coming into force 1st April 2022

The Treasury, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 58(2), (3)(a),
(b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (h), (i) and (m) and (4), 58(6) and 64(1)(a) and (b)
and (2) of the Finance Act 2022, make the following Regulations. Before making
these Regulations, the Treasury have consulted each appropriate collection
authority  in accordance with section 64(4) of the Finance Act 2022 .

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Economic Crime (Anti-Money Laundering)
Levy Regulations 2022 and come into force on 1st April 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Finance Act 2022; “ appealable decision ” means a
decision appealable in accordance with regulation 30; “ appellant ” means the
person bringing an appeal of an appealable decision under regulation 30; “ due
date ” has the meaning given in regulation 6(1), 9(1) or 13(1) as the case may
be; “ economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return ” has the meaning
given in regulation 5(1), 9(1)(b) or 13(1)(a) as the case may be; “ FCA return
date ” has the meaning given in regulation 5(2)(a); “ notice of recalculation
” means a notice given under regulation 11A(1)(b).

### Determination of the relevant appropriate collection authority

#### Determination as to which appropriate collection authority is to exercise functions

3

3.1

Except where paragraph (2) applies, where both the Gambling Commission and the
Financial Conduct Authority are an appropriate collection authority with power
to exercise functions under Part 3 of the Act in respect of a person, the
Financial Conduct Authority is the appropriate collection authority which is
to exercise those functions.

3.2

This paragraph applies where the Gambling Commission and the Financial Conduct
Authority agree that the Gambling Commission will be the appropriate
collection authority which is to exercise those functions in respect of a
person.

3.3

Where paragraph (2) applies, the Gambling Commission must notify the person in
writing.

3.4

Where, after the Gambling Commission has notified a person that the Gambling
Commission will be the appropriate collection authority in accordance with
paragraph (3), the Gambling Commission and the Financial Conduct Authority
agree that the Financial Conduct Authority will be the appropriate collection
authority which is to exercise functions under Part 3 of the Act in respect of
a person, the Financial Conduct Authority must notify the person in writing.

### Provisions for assessment, payment, collection and recovery of the levy, where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority

#### Application of Part 3

4

This Part applies where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial
Conduct Authority.

#### Information requirements

5

5.1

The Financial Conduct Authority may by notice require any person for whom the
Financial Conduct Authority is a supervisory authority  to make a return (“ an
economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return ”) relating to the person’s
UK revenue  for a financial year to the Financial Conduct Authority.

5.2

An economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return must—

5.2.a

be made on or before the date specified in the notice (“the FCA return date”);

5.2.b

contain such information, be in such form and be made in such a manner as may
be specified in the notice; and

5.2.c

include a declaration by the person making the return that the return is, to
the best of that person’s knowledge, correct and complete.

5.3

A person who has made an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return
may amend that return at any time up to 12 months after the FCA return date.

5.4

Where a notice under paragraph (1) is given to the responsible partners of a
partnership , the responsible partners must make an economic crime (anti-money
laundering) return in the name of the partnership.

#### Payment of the levy

6

6.1

Where a person is liable to pay the levy , the Financial Conduct Authority
must notify the person in writing as to—

6.1.a

the amount payable by the person;

6.1.b

the date by which that amount is to be paid (“ the due date ”), being a date
not less than 30 days after the date of the written notification; and

6.1.c

details of how the payment can be made.

6.2

The notification referred to in paragraph (1) must contain such information,
be in such form and be made in such a manner as is specified in a notice
published by the Financial Conduct Authority, and not withdrawn by a further
notice.

6.3

A notification under paragraph (1) may be amended, replaced or withdrawn by
the Financial Conduct Authority by a further notification in writing.

#### Late payment interest

7

7.1

Where any amount of the levy is not paid in accordance with the notification
referred to in regulation 6(1), the Financial Conduct Authority may charge
interest on the amount of the levy which remains unpaid.

7.2

Interest payable under paragraph (1) is simple interest calculated from day to
day on the unpaid amount from a day determined by the Financial Conduct
Authority, such day not being before the due date referred to in regulation
6(1)(b), until the day when payment is made, at a rate of 5% over the Bank of
England base rate from time to time.

7.3

Where the person liable to pay the levy is the responsible partners of a
partnership, the liability to pay interest charged in accordance with this
regulation is joint and several.

7.4

For the purpose of this regulation, the “ Bank of England base rate ” means—

7.4.a

the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets, or

7.4.b

where an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  (reserve
powers) is in force, any equivalent rate determined by the Treasury under that
section.

### Provisions for assessment, payment, collection and recovery of the levy, where the appropriate collection authority is the Gambling Commission

#### Application of Part 4

8

This Part applies where the appropriate collection authority is the Gambling
Commission.

#### Requirements of a person liable to pay the levy

9

9.1

Where a person is liable to pay the levy, it must—

9.1.a

notify the Gambling Commission of that liability;

9.1.b

make a return (“an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return”) to the
Gambling Commission; and

9.1.c

pay the levy,

on or before 30th September after the end of the financial year for which the
liability arises (“ the due date ”).

9.2

The notification referred to in paragraph (1)(a) must contain such
information, be in such form and be made in such a manner as is specified in a
notice  published by the Gambling Commission, and not withdrawn by a further
notice.

9.3

An economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return must—

9.3.a

contain such information, be in such form and be made in such a manner as is
specified in a notice published by the Gambling Commission, and not withdrawn
by a further notice; and

9.3.b

include a declaration by the person making the return that the return is, to
the best of that person’s knowledge, correct and complete.

9.4

Where the person liable to pay the levy is the responsible partners of a
partnership, the responsible partners must make a notification under paragraph
(1)(a) and an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return in the name
of the partnership.

#### Amendment of an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return

9A

9A.1

A person who has made an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return in
accordance with regulation 9 may amend that return at any time up to 12 months
after the due date referred to in regulation 9(1).

9A.2

An amount of levy payable as a result of the amendment of an economic crime
(anti-money laundering) levy return must be paid—

9A.2.a

immediately, or

9A.2.b

if the amendment is made on or before the due date, not later than that due
date.

#### Register

10

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Late payment interest

11

11.1

Where any amount of the levy is not paid by the due date referred to in
regulation 9(1), the person liable to pay the levy is liable to pay interest
on the amount of the levy which remains unpaid.

11.2

Interest payable under paragraph (1) is simple interest calculated from day to
day on the unpaid amount from the due date until the date when payment is
made, at the rate set as the late payment interest rate for the purposes of
section 101 of the Finance Act 2009  (late payment interest in sums due to
HMRC).

11.3

Where the person liable to pay the levy is the responsible partners of a
partnership, the liability under this regulation is joint and several.

#### Assessment by the Gambling Commission of amounts of levy due

11A

11A.1

Where it appears to the Gambling Commission that an amount of levy has become
due and there has been a relevant failure, the Gambling Commission—

11A.1.a

may assess the amount of levy due from a person for that financial year to the
best of their judgement; and

11A.1.b

must, where such an assessment is made, give a notice to that person (a
“notice of recalculation”), notifying that person of the assessment made.

11A.2

The notice of recalculation must include—

11A.2.a

the date on which the notice is given;

11A.2.b

a statement of the amount of levy now due;

11A.2.c

the time within which any appeal against the assessment may be made.

11A.3

In this regulation, any of the following is a “relevant failure”—

11A.3.a

a failure to make an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return;

11A.3.b

a failure to keep documents necessary to verify an economic crime (anti-money
laundering) levy return;

11A.3.c

the making of an incomplete or inaccurate economic crime (anti-money
laundering) levy return;

11A.3.d

an amount of levy has been repaid that ought not to have been repaid.

#### Time limit for recalculation notice

11B

11B.1

A notice of recalculation may not be given after the relevant time.

11B.2

The “relevant time” is—

11B.2.a

the end of the period of 4 years beginning with the date on which an economic
crime (anti-money laundering) levy return is made, or

11B.2.b

where the economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return has not been
made, the end of the period of 20 years beginning with the due date.

#### Payment of levy after assessment by the Gambling Commission

11C

11C.1

The amount of levy stated in the notice of recalculation as the amount due—

11C.1.a

must be paid by the date which is 30 days after the date of the notice of
recalculation, and

11C.1.b

is recoverable on the basis that it is an amount of levy due from that person.

11C.2

But paragraph (1) does not apply if, or to the extent that, the notice of
recalculation has been withdrawn or the assessment reduced.

### Provisions for assessment, payment and collection of the levy, where the appropriate collection authority is the HMRC Commissioners

#### Application of Part 5

12

This Part applies where the appropriate collection authority is the HMRC
Commissioners .

#### Requirements of a person liable to pay the levy

13

13.1

Where a person is liable to pay the levy, it must—

13.1.a

make a return (“an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return”) to the
HMRC Commissioners; and

13.1.b

pay the levy,

on or before 30th September after the end of the financial year for which the
liability arises (“ the due date ”).

13.2

An economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return must—

13.2.a

contain such information, be in such form and be made in such a manner as is
specified in a notice  published by the HMRC Commissioners, and not withdrawn
by a further notice; and

13.2.b

include a declaration by the person making the return that the return is, to
the best of that person’s knowledge, correct and complete.

13.3

Where the person liable to pay the levy is the responsible partners of a
partnership, the responsible partners must make an economic crime (anti-money
laundering) levy return in the name of the partnership.

#### Amendment of an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return

14

14.1

A person who has made an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return in
accordance with regulation 13 may amend that return at any time up to 12
months after the due date referred to in regulation 13(1).

14.2

An amendment must be in such form and be made in such a manner as is specified
in a notice published by the HMRC Commissioners, and not withdrawn by a
further notice.

14.3

An amount of levy payable as a result of the amendment of an economic crime
(anti-money laundering) levy return must be paid—

14.3.a

immediately, or

14.3.b

if the amendment is made on or before the due date, not later than that due
date.

#### Assessment by the HMRC Commissioners of amounts of levy due

14A

14A.1

Where it appears to the HMRC Commissioners that an amount of levy has become
due and there has been a relevant failure, the HMRC Commissioners—

14A.1.a

may assess the amount of levy due from the person for that financial year to
the best of their judgement; and

14A.1.b

must, where such an assessment is made, notify the amount to the person.

14A.2

In paragraph (1), any of the following is a “relevant failure”—

14A.2.a

a failure to make an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return;

14A.2.b

a failure to keep documents necessary to verify an economic crime (anti-money
laundering) levy return;

14A.2.c

the making of an incomplete or inaccurate economic crime (anti-money
laundering) levy return;

14A.2.d

an amount of levy, which could include an amount of repayment interest, has
been repaid that ought not to have been repaid.

#### Replacement assessments by the HMRC Commissioners

14B

14B.1

Where an assessment has been notified to a person under regulation 14A(1) and
it appears to the HMRC Commissioners that the amount which ought to have been
assessed as due exceeds the amount that has already been assessed, the HMRC
Commissioners—

14B.1.a

may make a further assessment (“a replacement assessment”) of the amount of
levy due from the person to the best of their judgement, and

14B.1.b

must, where such an assessment is made, notify the person of that amount.

14B.2

A replacement assessment made and notified to a person under paragraph (1)
supersedes any previous assessment.

#### Assessment procedure

14C

Notice of an assessment under regulation 14A(1) or 14B(1) must be given in
writing stating—

14C.a

the date on which the notice is given, and

14C.b

the time within which any appeal against the assessment may be made.

#### Time limits for assessments by the HMRC Commissioners

14D

14D.1

An assessment under regulation 14A(1) or 14B(1) may not be made after the
relevant time.

14D.2

The “relevant time” is—

14D.2.a

the end of the period of 4 years beginning with the date on which an economic
crime (anti-money laundering) levy return is made, or

14D.2.b

where the economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return has not been
made, the end of the period of 20 years beginning with the due date.

#### Payment of levy following assessments by the HMRC Commissioners

14E

14E.1

An amount of levy assessed and notified to a person under regulation 14A(1) or
14B(1)—

14E.1.a

must be paid by the date which is 30 days after the date of notification of
the assessment, and

14E.1.b

is recoverable on the basis that it is an amount of levy due from that person.

14E.2

But paragraph (1) does not apply if, or to the extent that, the assessment has
been withdrawn or reduced.

### Death, incapacity or insolvency

#### Death, incapacity or insolvency

15

15.1

This regulation applies where a person liable to pay the levy—

15.1.a

who is an individual—

15.1.a.i

has died or become incapacitated; or

15.1.a.ii

has become bankrupt; or

15.1.b

is subject to winding-up, receivership, administration or an equivalent
procedure.

15.2

  Subject to paragraph (3),  the person (“ P ”) who—

15.2.a

in the case of an individual, carries on the regulated business  on behalf of
an individual who has died or become incapacitated; or

15.2.b

acts as the liquidator, receiver or administrator in relation to the business
of the person liable to pay the levy or acts in an equivalent capacity,

may be treated by the appropriate collection authority as the person liable to
pay the levy and must satisfy the requirements of Part 3 of the Act and the
requirements of these Regulations as if they were the person liable to pay the
levy.

15.3

Any amount of levy which relates to UK revenue attributable to a period before
the date when the winding-up, receivership, administration or other equivalent
procedure takes effect is payable by the person subject to the winding-up,
receivership, administration or an equivalent procedure, and not by the person
treated as the person liable to pay the levy under paragraph (2).

15.4

Any amount of levy which relates to UK revenue attributable to a period on or
after the date when the winding-up, receivership, administration or other
equivalent procedure takes effect is to be regarded as an expense of that
winding-up, receivership, administration or equivalent procedure.

### Information Requirements

#### Requirement to provide information or documents where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority or the Gambling Commission

16

16.1

                            This regulation applies where the appropriate
collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority or the Gambling
Commission.

16.2

A person liable to pay the levy must supply the appropriate collection
authority with such information or documents as the appropriate collection
authority may request in connection with the levy.

16.3

A request under paragraph (2) may specify—

16.3.a

the form and manner in which the information or documents are to be supplied;

16.3.b

the period within which the information or documents are to be supplied.

#### Duty to keep and preserve records

17

17.1

A person liable to pay the levy must—

17.1.a

keep such records as may be needed to enable them to make a complete and
accurate economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return,

17.1.b

preserve those records until at least the end of the relevant day, and

17.1.c

preserve those records in a medium that allows the storage of information in a
way that is accessible for future reference by the appropriate collection
authority when the appropriate collection authority is carrying out functions
under Part 3 of the Act or under these Regulations.

17.2

In paragraph (1)(b), “ relevant day ” means—

17.2.a

the sixth anniversary of the end of the period for which the person may be
required to make an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return, or

17.2.b

such earlier day as may be specified in writing by the appropriate collection
authority (and different days may be specified for different cases).

17.3

In paragraph (1)(c), the obligation to ensure that storage is accessible for
future reference by the appropriate collection authority includes the
requirements that—

17.3.a

the appropriate collection authority must be able to access the record
readily,

17.3.b

the appropriate collection authority must be able to easily ascertain—

17.3.b.i

if any correction or other amendment has been made to a record, and

17.3.b.ii

the content of any record prior to such correction or amendment, and

17.3.c

it must not be possible for any record to be otherwise manipulated or altered.

### Repayment of overpaid levy

#### Repayment of overpaid levy

18

18.1

Subject to paragraph (2), where a person has paid an amount of levy which was
not due, the appropriate collection authority must, on the making of a claim
by that person, repay the amount.

18.2

The appropriate collection authority is not liable, on any claim for a
repayment of levy, to repay any amount where—

18.2.a

the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority and
the amount in question was paid more than 2 years before the making of the
claim;

18.2.b

the appropriate collection authority is the Gambling Commission or HMRC
Commissioners and the amount in question was paid more than 4 years before the
making of the claim;

18.2.c

the amount in question was paid as a result of the person liable to pay the
levy not taking steps under the Corporation Tax Acts to reduce its revenue ;

18.2.d

the person liable to pay the levy—

18.2.d.i

could have reduced the amount of levy due by making an amendment to an
economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return within a period which has
now expired, and

18.2.d.ii

knew, or ought reasonably to have known, before the end of that period that
such an amendment could have been made;

18.2.e

the claim is made on grounds that have been put to a tribunal or court in the
course of an appeal or by way of application for judicial review;

18.2.f

the person liable to pay the levy knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of
the grounds for the claim before the latest of the following—

18.2.f.i

the date on which an appeal or application for judicial review by the person
liable to pay the levy relating to the amount paid in the course of which the
ground could have been put forward (a “relevant appeal or judicial review”)
was determined by a tribunal or court (or is treated as having been so
determined),

18.2.f.ii

the date on which the person liable to pay the levy withdrew a relevant appeal
or judicial review to a court or tribunal, and

18.2.f.iii

the end of the period in which the person liable to pay the levy was entitled
to make a relevant appeal or judicial review to a tribunal or court;

18.2.g

the amount in question was paid—

18.2.g.i

in consequence of proceedings enforcing the payment of that amount brought
against the person liable to pay the levy by an appropriate collection
authority, or

18.2.g.ii

in accordance with an agreement between the person liable to pay the levy and
an appropriate collection authority settling such proceedings;

18.2.h

the amount in question was paid by reason of a mistake in calculating the
revenue of a person liable to pay the levy, but that calculation was in
accordance with the practice generally prevailing at the time.

18.3

Where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority
or the Gambling Commission, no interest is payable on any repaid levy.

#### Claim for repayment of overpaid levy

19

19.1

A claim for a repayment under regulation 18(1) must—

19.1.a

contain such information, be in such form and be made in such a manner as is
specified in a notice published by the appropriate collection authority, and
not withdrawn by a further notice, and

19.1.b

include a declaration by the person making the claim that the claim is, to the
best of that person’s knowledge, complete and accurate.

19.2

Where the person liable to pay the levy is the responsible partners of a
partnership, the responsible partners must make a claim in the name of the
partnership.

### Enforcement

#### Financial penalties

20

20.1

An appropriate collection authority may impose a financial penalty on a person
liable to pay the levy where that person fails to—

20.1.a

submit an economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return by—

20.1.a.i

where the appropriate collection authority is the Gambling Commission or the
HMRC Commissioners, the due date, or

20.1.a.ii

where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority,
the FCA return date;

20.1.b

pay the levy by the due date;

20.1.c

make a complete and accurate economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy
return such that a lower amount of levy has been charged for a financial year
than the amount determined in accordance with section 54 of the Act;

20.1.d

notify the appropriate collection authority in writing of an under-assessment
of the levy;

20.1.e

notify the appropriate collection authority in writing that an amount of levy,
which could include an amount of repayment interest, has been repaid that
ought not to have been repaid;

20.1.f

comply with a request for information or documents under regulation 16;

20.1.g

comply with record keeping requirements under regulation 17;

20.1.h

submit the economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return by the date
which is 3 months after the due date or the FCA return date, following a
failure under sub-paragraph (a);

20.1.i

pay the levy by the date which is 30 days after the due date, following a
failure under sub-paragraph (b);

20.1.j

comply with a request for information or documents under regulation 16 by the
date which is 3 months after the end of the period for compliance given in the
request, following a failure under sub-paragraph (f);

20.1.k

pay the levy by the date which is 3 months after the due date, following a
failure under sub-paragraph (i).

20.2

A financial penalty may be imposed under this regulation in respect of each
and every failure mentioned in paragraph (1).

20.3

But an appropriate collection authority may not impose a financial penalty
where—

20.3.a

the person liable to pay the levy satisfies the appropriate collection
authority that they had a reasonable excuse for the failure;

20.3.b

in the case of a failure referred to in paragraph (1)(g), the appropriate
collection authority is satisfied that any facts which the appropriate
collection authority reasonably required to be proved, and which would have
been proved by the records, are proved by other documentary evidence supplied
to the appropriate collection authority.

20.4

Where a person had a reasonable excuse for a failure but the excuse has
ceased, that person is to be treated as having continued to have the excuse if
the failure is remedied without unreasonable delay after the excuse ceased.

#### Amount of financial penalty

21

In the Schedule, in the table—

21.a

column 1 states the provision in regulation 20 under which a penalty may be
imposed, and

21.b

the amount of the penalty which may be imposed is the amount specified in or
determined in accordance with the corresponding entry in column 2.

#### Penalty notices

22

22.1

Where an appropriate collection authority decides to impose a financial
penalty under regulation 20, the appropriate collection authority must give a
notice imposing the penalty (“a penalty notice”).

22.2

A penalty notice must include—

22.2.a

the amount of the financial penalty;

22.2.b

the period for payment of the penalty in accordance with regulation 24;

22.2.c

information about the ability to request a review and—

22.2.c.i

where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority,
the right to apply for judicial review;

22.2.c.ii

where the appropriate collection authority is the Gambling Commission or the
HMRC Commissioners, the right of appeal including the time limit within which
the appeal must be brought to the tribunal .

22.3

A penalty notice may be withdrawn by the appropriate collection authority at
any time by giving notice in writing to the person to whom the penalty notice
was given.

#### Time limit for imposing a penalty

23

A penalty notice must be given within the period of 4 years beginning with the
due date.

#### Payment of penalty

24

A penalty imposed in accordance with regulation 20 must be paid by the date
which is 30 days after the date of the penalty notice.

#### Recovery of unpaid amounts by the HMRC Commissioners

25

Where an amount of unpaid levy, unpaid late payment interest or unpaid penalty
is due to another appropriate collection authority, the HMRC Commissioners
may, on request by that other appropriate collection authority, treat such
amounts as if the HMRC Commissioners were the appropriate collection authority
in respect of those amounts for the purposes of collection and recovery of
those unpaid amounts.

### Reviews and Appeals

#### Right to review where the HMRC Commissioners are the appropriate collection authority

26

26.1

This regulation applies where the appropriate collection authority is the HMRC
Commissioners.

26.2

The HMRC Commissioners must offer a person liable to pay the levy a review of
a decision that is an appealable decision of the HMRC Commissioners.

26.3

The offer of a review must be made by notice to the person liable to pay the
levy at the same time as the appealable decision is notified.

26.4

If a person liable to pay the levy accepts the offer of a review, they must
notify the HMRC Commissioners in writing of that acceptance within the period
of 30 days beginning with—

26.4.a

the day on which the appealable decision is notified, or

26.4.b

such later day as is set out in a notice, or a further notice, sent by the
HMRC Commissioners to the person liable to pay the levy to extend the period
of time in which the offer of a review can be accepted.

26.5

The HMRC Commissioners—

26.5.a

must review a decision if they receive a notification in accordance with
paragraph (4), but

26.5.b

may not review a decision if an appeal has been made.

#### Review out of time

27

27.1

The HMRC Commissioners must review a decision if—

27.1.a

the person liable to pay the levy does not accept the offer of a review within
the time allowed under regulation 26(4),

27.1.b

the person liable to pay the levy notifies the HMRC Commissioners in writing
requesting a review out of time,

27.1.c

the HMRC Commissioners are satisfied that the person liable to pay the levy
had a reasonable excuse for not accepting the offer within the time allowed,
and

27.1.d

the HMRC Commissioners are satisfied that the person liable to pay the levy
made the request without unreasonable delay after the excuse had ceased to
apply.

27.2

The HMRC Commissioners may not review a decision if an appeal has been made.

#### Review procedure

28

28.1

Where the HMRC Commissioners must review a decision, the HMRC Commissioners
must, within the review period—

28.1.a

review the appealable decision,

28.1.b

conclude that the appealable decision is to be upheld, varied or cancelled,
and

28.1.c

give the person liable to pay the levy notice of the conclusions of the
review, with reasons.

28.2

Where the HMRC Commissioners do not give notice of the conclusions of the
review in accordance with paragraph (1)(c) within the review period—

28.2.a

the review is to be treated as having concluded that the appealable decision
is upheld, and

28.2.b

the HMRC Commissioners must notify the person liable to pay the levy of the
conclusion which the review is treated as having reached.

28.3

In this regulation “ the review period ” means—

28.3.a

where the HMRC Commissioners have been notified in accordance with regulation
26(4) that a review is required, the period of 45 days beginning with the date
on which the HMRC Commissioners were so notified,

28.3.b

where the HMRC Commissioners have decided to undertake a review in accordance
with regulation 27(1), the period of 45 days beginning with the date on which
the HMRC Commissioners made that decision, or

28.3.c

such other period as the HMRC Commissioners and the person liable to pay the
levy may agree.

#### Reviews where the appropriate collection authority is the Financial Conduct Authority or the Gambling Commission

29

Regulations 26 to 28 do not restrict the ability of the Financial Conduct
Authority or the Gambling Commission to conduct a review of a decision, at the
request of a person liable to pay the levy.

#### Appealable decisions

30

30.1

A person may appeal to the tribunal against a decision of the Gambling
Commission or the HMRC Commissioners in respect of any of the following
matters—

30.1.a

that a person is a person liable to pay the levy;

30.1.b

the amount of levy charged for a financial year;

30.1.c

an assessment of amount of levy due under regulation 11A, 14A or 14B;

30.1.d

whether or not the appropriate collection authority must repay an amount to a
person under regulation 18;

30.1.e

the amount that the appropriate collection authority must repay to a person
under regulation 18;

30.1.f

whether or not a person is liable to a penalty under regulation 20;

30.1.g

the amount of a penalty payable under regulation 21.

30.2

An appeal must be made to the tribunal by the date which is—

30.2.a

30 days after the date the person making the appeal is notified by the
Gambling Commission or the HMRC Commissioners of the appealable decision, or

30.2.b

where the Gambling Commission agrees, or the HMRC Commissioners agree, to
review a decision, 30 days after the date on which the person making the
appeal is notified of the conclusion of the review.

30.3

An appeal may be made after the end of any period specified in paragraph (2)
if the tribunal gives permission to do so.

#### Amounts of levy due must be paid before appeal except in cases of hardship

31

31.1

An appeal relating to a decision that an amount of levy is due from a person
may not be considered by the tribunal unless the amount which the Gambling
Commission has, or the HMRC Commissioners have, determined to be due has been
paid or deposited with the Gambling Commission or the HMRC Commissioners.

31.2

But sub-paragraph (1) does not apply if—

31.2.a

the Gambling Commission is or the HMRC Commissioners are satisfied or, if the
Gambling Commission is not or the HMRC Commissioners are not satisfied but the
tribunal has decided, on the application of the appellant, that the
requirement to pay or deposit the amount would cause the appellant to suffer
hardship, and

31.2.b

the appellant has paid or deposited such other amount (if any) by way of
security as the Gambling Commission or the HMRC Commissioners or, as the case
may be, the tribunal considers appropriate.

#### Settling of appeals by agreement

32

32.1

An appropriate collection authority may settle an appeal by way of an
agreement in writing (“a settlement agreement”) between the appellant and the
appropriate collection authority that is—

32.1.a

entered into before the appeal is determined, and

32.1.b

to the effect that the decision appealed against should be upheld without
variation, varied in a particular manner, discharged or cancelled.

32.2

Where a settlement agreement is entered into in relation to an appeal, the
consequences are to be the same (for all purposes) as if, at the time the
agreement was entered into, the tribunal had decided the appeal and had upheld
the decision without variation, varied it in that manner, discharged it or
cancelled it, as the case may be.

32.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply if, within 30 days beginning with the date on
which the settlement agreement was entered into, the appellant gives notice in
writing to the appropriate collection authority that they wish to withdraw
from the agreement.

32.4

Where an appeal has been made and—

32.4.a

the appellant notifies the appropriate collection authority, orally or in
writing, that the appellant does not wish to proceed with the appeal, and

32.4.b

the appropriate collection authority does not, within 30 days after that
notification, give the appellant notice in writing indicating that it is
unwilling that the appeal should be withdrawn,

paragraphs (1) to (3) have effect as if, at the date of the appellant’s
notification, the appellant and the appropriate collection authority had
agreed that the decision under appeal should be upheld without variation.

#### Payment of levy or penalty where appeal has been determined

33

On the determination of an appeal under regulation 30—

33.a

any levy or penalty overpaid must be repaid;

33.b

any levy or penalty appropriately charged but not yet paid, must be paid,

by the date which is 30 days after the date the appeal is determined.

#### Payment of levy or penalty where there is a further appeal

34

34.1

Where the appellant makes a further appeal, the levy or penalty is to be
payable or repayable in accordance with the determination of the tribunal,
even though the further appeal is pending.

34.2

But if the amount payable is altered by the order or judgment of the Upper
Tribunal or court, then—

34.2.a

if too much levy or penalty has been paid, the amount overpaid must be
refunded, with any interest allowed by the order or judgment, and

34.2.a

if too little levy or penalty has been charged, the amount not yet paid
becomes due and payable.

Michael Tomlinson Rebecca Harris Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her
Majesty’s Treasury 10th March 2022

Table of penalty amounts

Regulation 21

Column 1 Column 2 Regulation 20(1)(a) £250 Regulation 20(1)(b) £250 Regulation
20(1)(c) Either— a £250; or b the amount which is 5% of the difference between
the amount of levy paid as a result of the failure to make a complete and
correct economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy return and the amount
which the appropriate collection authority considers due, at the discretion of
the appropriate collection authority. Regulation 20(1)(d) Either— a £250; or b
the amount which is 5% of the difference between the amount of levy paid as a
result of the failure to notify of an under-assessment of the levy and the
amount which the appropriate collection authority considers due, at the
discretion of the appropriate collection authority Regulation 20(1)(e) Either—
a £250; or b the amount which is 5% of the difference between the amount of
levy paid as a result of the failure to notify of a repayment that ought not
to have been repaid and the amount which the appropriate collection authority
considers ought to have been repaid, at the discretion of the appropriate
collection authority. Regulation 20(1)(f) £300 Regulation 20(1)(g) Such amount
as may be determined by the appropriate collection authority at its discretion
up to a maximum of £3,000. Regulation 20(1)(h) The amount which is 5% of the
amount of levy which the appropriate collection authority considers due.
Regulation 20(1)(i) £250 Regulation 20(1)(j) A maximum penalty of £60 for each
day on which the failure continues, such total amount to be determined at the
discretion of the appropriate collection authority. Regulation 20(1)(k) The
amount which is 5% of the amount of unpaid levy which the appropriate
collection authority considers due.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision about the assessment, payment, collection and
recovery of the economic crime (anti-money laundering) levy (“the levy”) which
is charged in accordance with Part 3 of the Finance Act  2022 (c. 3)  for the
financial year beginning with April 2022 and subsequent financial years ( see
section 66 of the Finance Act 2022).

The appropriate collection authority is responsible for the collection and
management of the levy. The appropriate collection authority is either the
Financial Conduct Authority, the Gambling Commission or the HMRC
Commissioners, as provided for in section 53(3) of the Finance Act 2022. Part
2 of this instrument makes provision as to which appropriate collection
authority is to exercise functions relating to the levy where both the
Gambling Commission and the Financial Conduct Authority are an appropriate
collection authority in accordance with section 53(3).

Part 3 of this instrument makes provision about the assessment, payment,
collection and recovery of the levy where the appropriate collection authority
is the Financial Conduct Authority (“the FCA”). Regulation 5 provides for the
FCA to require by notice any person for whom it is a supervisory authority
(defined in section 65(1) of the Finance Act 2022) to make a return relating
to the person’s UK revenue and makes provision as to the content of the return
and date by which it must be returned. Regulation 6 makes provision for the
payment of the levy and regulation 7 gives the FCA the power to charge
interest in the event of late payment.

Part 4 of this instrument makes provision about the assessment, payment,
collection and recovery of the levy where the appropriate collection authority
is the Gambling Commission. Regulation 9 makes provision for those liable to
pay the levy to notify the Gambling Commission, make a return and pay the levy
on or before 30th September following the financial year for which the
liability arises and makes further provision in relation to the content, form
and manner of the notification and the return. Regulation 10 provides that the
Gambling Commission may make a register with the notified information and make
it publicly available. Regulation 11 makes provision for interest to be
payable where any amount of levy is not paid by the due date.

Part 5 of this instrument makes provision about the assessment, payment and
collection of the levy where the appropriate collection authority is the HMRC
Commissioners. Regulation 13 provides that a person liable to pay the levy
must make a return and pay the levy on or before 30th September following the
financial year for which the liability arises and makes further provision in
relation to the content, form and manner of the return. Regulation 14 makes
provision as to amendment of the return.

Part 6 makes provision in relation to cases where an individual liable to pay
the levy dies or becomes incapacitated or where a person (whether or not an
individual) is subject to an insolvency procedure. Regulation 15(2) provides
that those acting for such a person may be treated as the person liable to pay
the levy and must satisfy the requirements of the Finance Act 2022 and these
Regulations accordingly.

A Tax Information and Impact Note (TIIN) covering this instrument is available
on the Government website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/economic-crime-anti-money-
laundering-levy . It remains an accurate summary of the impacts that apply to
this instrument.

