Title: The Waste Management Licensing (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-01-13
Description: These regulations amend regulations 1, 3 and 5 and Schedule 1 to the Waste Management Licensing Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 (the 2003 Regulations) and prescribe the accepted technical competencies for the purpose of determining if a person can be deemed a fit and proper person to hold a waste management licence.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/288

## The Waste Management Licensing (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Environmental Protection

  Made   27th October 2022

  Coming into operation   5th December 2022

      The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs, in
exercise of the powers conferred by Article 3(5) of the Waste and Contaminated
Land (Northern Ireland) Order 1997 , makes the following Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Waste Management Licensing (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come into operation on 5th December
2022.

### Amendment of the Waste Management Licensing Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003

2

The Waste Management Licensing Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003  are
amended in accordance with regulations 3 to 6.

### Amendment of regulation 1 (Citation, commencement and interpretation)

3

In regulation 1(3) (Citation, commencement and interpretation) insert the
following definitions at the appropriate place–

      “ CIWM ” means the Chartered Institution of Wastes Management;”; and
“ EU Skills ” means Energy and Utility Skills Limited;

.

### Amendment of regulation 3

4

For regulation 3 substitute–

4.3

4.3.1

Without prejudice to the European Union (Recognition of Professional
Qualifications) Regulations 2015 , the qualifications and experience required
of a person to be considered technically competent for the purposes of Article
3(3)(b) of the 1997 Order (management of activities to be in the hands of a
technically competent person), is either:

4.3.1.a

an Operator Competence Certificate awarded by CIWM to carry on the specific
activities which are authorised by a waste management licence; or

4.3.1.b

a Competence Management System Certification awarded by EU Skills.

4.3.2

Where it is not possible to obtain a qualification under paragraph 1(a) or (b)
for any activity, the Department will assess technical competence for the
purposes of Article 3(3)(b) of the 1997 order based on the knowledge and
experience in waste management practice of the person seeking to manage that
activity.

4.3.3

A person who has been awarded an Operator Competence Certificate by CIWM must
undertake an assessment every 24 months to ensure that competence is kept up
to date.

4.3.4

A person who has been awarded Competence Management System Certification by EU
Skills must undertake an assessment every 36 months to ensure that competence
is kept up to date.

4.3.5

Where a person carries out activities without the qualifications specified in
paragraph (1)(a) or (b) or an assessment of technical competence by the
Department, that person will not be deemed to be a fit and proper person which
may result in that person’s application being refused or their licence being
revoked except where that activity is being carried out by way of an exemption
from waste management licensing.

### Amendment of regulation 5 (Pre-qualification technical competence)

5

5.1

For regulation 5 (Pre-qualification technical competence) substitute—

5.1.5

5.1.5.1

Where—

5.1.5.1.a

a person has applied to

5.1.5.1.a.i

CIWM for an Operator Competence Certificate to carry on the specific
activities which are authorised by a waste management licence; or

5.1.5.1.a.ii

EU Skills for a Competence Management System Certification;

5.1.5.1.b

an application has been made for a waste management license to authorise
activities whose management is intended to be in that person’s hands;

5.1.5.1.c

the activities mentioned in sub-paragraph (b) are to be carried on at a
facility of the same type as that in relation to which the application
mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) was made; and

5.1.5.1.d

the Department is satisfied that but for regulation 3 he would be a
technically competent person,

then, in relation to the facility in respect of which the application
mentioned in sub-paragraph (c) was made and until the expiry of two years from
the grant of a licence pursuant to that application, regulation 3 shall not
apply to that person and that person shall be treated as technically competent
for the purposes of Article 3(3)(b) of the 1997 order.

5.1.5.2

Paragraph 1 does not include activities carried out at any type of landfill
site.

### Revocation of Schedule 1

6

Schedule 1 is revoked.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Agriculture,
Environment and Rural Affairs on 27th October 2022.         John Mills   A
senior officer of the   Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural
Affairs

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These regulations amend regulations 1, 3 and 5 and Schedule 1 to the Waste
Management Licensing Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2003 (the 2003
Regulations) and prescribe the accepted technical competencies for the purpose
of determining if a person can be deemed a fit and proper person to hold a
waste management licence.

  Regulation 3(1)(b) introduces EU Skills as a provider of assurance of
technical competence in Northern Ireland.

