Title: The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/781 (W. 170)) (“the 2022 Regulations”) make provision to enable a contract-holder under a relevant converted contract to apply to a prescribed person for a determination of rent and make consequential amendments to the Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971 (S.I. 1971/1065).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1078

## The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    This Statutory Instrument corrects errors in  S.I. 2022/781 (W. 170)  and
is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of that Statutory
Instrument.

    Housing, Wales

  Made   24 October 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   25 October 2022

  Coming into force   30 November 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 236(3) and 256(1) and (2)  of and paragraph 15(2)
of Schedule 12 to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Rent Determination)
(Converted Contracts) (Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 and they come into
force on 30 November 2022.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations, “ the 1971 Regulations ” (“ Rheoliadau 1971 ”) means the
Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales) Regulations 1971 .

### Amendments to the Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

3

3.1

The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales)
Regulations 2022  are amended as follows.

3.2

For regulation 2 (interpretation), substitute—

3.2.2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” (“ y Ddeddf ”) means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016;
“ appointed day ” ( “y diwrnod penodedig” ) has the meaning given by the Act
(see section 242);           “ assured agricultural occupancy ” (
“meddiannaeth amaethyddol sicr” ) has the meaning given by the Act (see
paragraph 1  of Schedule 12 to the Act);           “ assured tenancy ” (
“tenantiaeth sicr” ) has the meaning given by the Act (see section 242 );
“ billing authority ” (“ awdurdod bilio ”) has the meaning given by section
1(2) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 ;           “ category of
dwellings ” (“ categori o anheddau ”) has the meaning given by section 30(1)
and (2) of the Local Government Finance Act 1992 ;           “ dwelling ” (“
annedd ”) has the meaning given by the Act (see section 246 );           “
hereditament ” (“ hereditament ”) has the meaning given by section 3 of the
Local Government Finance Act 1992;           “ landlord ” (“ landlord ”) has
the meaning given by the Act (see section 244(2));           “ relevant
contract-holder ” ( “deiliad contract perthnasol” ) means a contract-holder
(which has the meaning given by the Act (see section 7(5)) under a relevant
converted contract;           “ relevant converted contract ” (“ contract wedi
ei drosi perthnasol ”) has the meaning given by the Act (see paragraph 15(3)
of Schedule 12 to the Act);           “ relevant improvement ” (“ gwelliant
perthnasol ”) means an improvement—         carried out during the relevant
converted contract to which the notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act
applies, or           which satisfies the following conditions—         the
improvement was carried out not more than twenty-one years before the date of
service of the notice under section 104 or 123 of the Act,           at all
times during the period beginning when the improvement was carried out and
ending on the date of service of the notice under section 104 or 123 of the
Act, the dwelling has been let under a relevant converted contract, an assured
tenancy or an assured agricultural occupancy, and           on the coming to
an end of an assured tenancy or an assured agricultural occupancy, at any time
during that period, the tenant or licensee (or, in case of joint tenants or
licensees, at least one of them) did not quit;                       “ rent ”
(“ rhent ”) does not include—         any service charge within the meaning of
section 18 of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , or           any payments
prohibited under section 4 of the Renting Homes (Fees etc.) (Wales) Act 2019 ,
but, subject to that, includes any sums payable by the relevant contract-
holder to the landlord on account of the use of furniture, in respect of
council tax or for any of the matters referred to in section 18(1)(a) of the
Landlord and Tenant Act 1985 , whether or not those sums are separate from the
sums payable for the occupation of the dwelling concerned or are payable under
separate agreements;           “ rent assessment committee ” (“ pwyllgor asesu
rhenti ”) means a rent assessment committee constituted in accordance with
Schedule 10 to the Rent Act 1977 .

3.3

In regulation 6 (assumptions in accordance with which the rent assessment
commitee must determine rent)—

3.3.a

in the words before paragraph (a), in the Welsh text—

3.3.a.i

for “gael ei osod”, substitute  “gael ei gosod” ;

3.3.a.ii

for “ymwneud â hi”, substitute  “ymwneud ag ef” ;

3.3.b

in the words before paragraph (a), for “the same type of relevant converted
contract as that”, substitute  “an occupation contract of the same type as the
relevant converted contract” ;

3.3.c

in paragraph (a), for “relevant converted”, substitute  “occupation” ;

3.3.d

in paragraph (c), for “relevant tenant or licensee”, substitute  “tenant,
licensee” ;

3.3.e

in paragraph (d)—

3.3.e.i

after “failure by the”, omit “relevant tenant or licensee or”;

3.3.e.ii

after “terms of the”, omit “relevant preceding tenancy or licence or”;

3.3.e.iii

after “relevant converted contract”, insert  “or the tenancy or licence which
existed immediately before the appointed day” .

3.4

In regulation 8 (consequential amendments to the Rent Assessment Committees
(England and Wales) Regulations 1971)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (2)(b), which inserts definitions into regulation 2 of the 1971
Regulations—

3.4.a.i

omit the definition of “relevant preceding tenancy or licence”;

3.4.a.ii

omit the definition of “relevant tenant or licensee”;

3.4.a.iii

in the Welsh text, in the words before the definition of “dwelling”, for
“mannau”, substitute  “lleoedd” ;

3.4.b

in paragraph (4), in the text which is inserted into regulation 3(3)(c) of the
1971 Regulations, omit “, relevant tenant or licensee,”;

3.4.c

in paragraph (5), which amends regulation 5(1)(b) of the 1971 Regulations, for
sub-paragraph (a), substitute—

3.4.c.a

for “assured tenancies or assured agricultural occupancies”, substitute
“assured tenancies, assured agricultural occupancies or relevant converted
contracts” ,

.

3.5

In the Schedule, in the prescribed form, after “8. Improvements”, for
paragraph (a) substitute—

3.5.a

Have you or any former tenant(s) or licensee(s) carried out improvements or
replaced fixtures, fittings or furniture for which you or they were NOT
responsible under the terms of the tenancy or licence/occupation contract?

.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  The Renting Homes (Rent Determination) (Converted Contracts) (Wales)
Regulations 2022 ( S.I. 2022/781 (W. 170) ) (“ the 2022 Regulations ”) make
provision to enable a contract-holder under a relevant converted contract to
apply to a prescribed person for a determination of rent and make
consequential amendments to the Rent Assessment Committees (England and Wales)
Regulations 1971 ( S.I. 1971/1065 ).

  These Regulations correct technical and typographical errors in the 2022
Regulations.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, it was not considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact
assessment as to the likely costs and benefits of complying with this
instrument.

