Title: The Customs (Additional Duty) (Russia and Belarus) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-24
Description: These Regulations provide for an additional duty on certain goods originating from Russia or from Belarus in consequence of the issue that has arisen between Her Majesty’s government in the United Kingdom and the governments of those countries.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/376

## The Customs (Additional Duty) (Russia and Belarus) Regulations 2022

    Customs

  Made   23rd March 2022

  Laid before the House of Commons   24th March 2022

  Coming into force   25th March 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 15(1) and 32(7) and (8) of the Taxation
(Cross-border Trade) Act 2018  (“ the 2018 Act ”).         In accordance with
section 15(1)(a) and (b) of the 2018 Act, Her Majesty’s government in the
United Kingdom, having regard to the matters set out in section 28 of the 2018
Act and any other relevant matters, considers it appropriate to deal with the
issue that has arisen between Her Majesty’s government in the United Kingdom
and the governments of Russia and of Belarus by varying the amount of import
duty in the case of goods originating from Russia or from Belarus.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

These Regulations—

1.a

may be cited as the Customs (Additional Duty) (Russia and Belarus) Regulations
2022;

1.b

come into force on 25th March 2022;

1.c

extend to the United Kingdom;

1.d

apply to specified goods—

1.d.i

which have originated from Russia or from Belarus , and

1.d.ii

the importation of which into the United Kingdom has incurred a liability to
import duty under the Taxation (Cross-border Trade) Act 2018 .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ additional duty ” means the increase in import duty imposed by regulation
3(1); “ commodity code ” means the numerical code which is applied to a
category of goods in the Goods Classification Table; “ Goods Classification
Table ” means the table so named in Annex I in Part Three of the Tariff of the
United Kingdom;   “ relevant Additional Duties Document ” means, in relation
to specified goods which have originated from—   Belarus, version 1.5   of the
document entitled “Belarusian Additional Duties Document” published by the
Secretary of State; Russia, version 1.4 of the document entitled “Russian
Additional Duties Document” published by the Secretary of State;   “ specified
goods ” means goods which— fall within a commodity code which is listed in the
column headed “Commodity code” in the table in the relevant Additional Duties
Document, and meet any description specified in relation to that commodity
code in the column headed “Notes” in that table; “ Tariff of the United
Kingdom ” has the same meaning as in regulation 1(2) of the Customs Tariff
(Establishment) (EU Exit) Regulations 2020 .

2.2

For the purpose of determining the commodity codes within which goods most
appropriately fall, the rules of interpretation in the following have effect—

2.2.a

Part Two (Goods Classification Table Rules of Interpretation) of the Tariff of
the United Kingdom;

2.2.b

notes to a section or chapter of the Goods Classification Table.

### Additional duty

3

3.1

Subject to regulation 4, an additional ad valorem duty applies to specified
goods so as to increase the amount of import duty otherwise applicable to the
goods.

3.2

The additional duty is the rate of duty specified in relation to the goods in
the column headed “Additional duty” in the table in the relevant Additional
Duties Document.

3.3

In paragraph (1), “ amount of import duty otherwise applicable ” means the
total amount of import duty that applies to the goods by virtue of provision
made under—

3.3.a

the following provisions of the Taxation (Cross-border) Trade Act 2018—

3.3.a.i

section 8 (customs tariff);

3.3.a.ii

section 11 (quotas);

3.3.a.iii

section 12 (tariff suspension);

3.3.a.iv

section 13 (dumping of goods, foreign subsidies and increases in imports);

3.3.a.v

section 14 (increases in imports or changes in price of agricultural goods);

3.3.a.vi

section 51(1)(b) (power to make provision in relation to duties of customs);

3.3.b

section 74 (transitioned trade remedies: decisions by Secretary of State) of
the Finance Act 2022 .

### Transitional provision

4

4.1

The additional duty does not apply to specified goods which have been exported
from Russia or from Belarus before the additional duty comes into effect in
respect of that description of specified goods.

4.2

Goods have been “exported” from Russia or Belarus (“the relevant country”)
when—

4.2.a

they have completed the applicable export formalities, and

4.2.b

where the goods were transported by—

4.2.b.i

land, they have left the territory of the relevant country;

4.2.b.ii

sea, the ship on which they were transported has departed a port in the
relevant country for a destination outside the relevant country;

4.2.b.iii

air, the aircraft on which they were transported has departed an airport in
the relevant country for a destination outside the relevant country.

      Penny Mordaunt   Minister of State   Department for International Trade

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations provide for an additional duty on certain goods originating
from Russia or from Belarus in consequence of the issue that has arisen
between Her Majesty’s government in the United Kingdom and the governments of
those countries.

The additional duty does not apply to goods which had already been exported
from Russia or Belarus when these Regulations come into force.

An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument.

