Title: The Renting Homes (Safeguarding Property in Abandoned Dwellings) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-10-01
Description: These Regulations make provision about the landlord’s requirement to safeguard property in a dwelling when an occupation contract ends under section 220 (possession of abandoned dwellings) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/256

## The Renting Homes (Safeguarding Property in Abandoned Dwellings) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   8 March 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   10 March 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by sections 221(1) and 256(1) of the Renting Homes
(Wales) Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Safeguarding Property in
Abandoned Dwellings) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on   1
December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act
2016  comes into force) .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” (“ y Deddf ”) means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016; “ disposal
” (“ gwaredu ”) includes but is not limited to the sale of property; “
prescribed period ” (“ cyfnod rhagnodedig ”) is four weeks from the day on
which the occupation contract ends under section 220 of the Act; “ property ”
(“ eiddo ”) is property (other than the landlord’s property) that is in the
dwelling when the occupation contract ends under section 220 of the Act.

2.2

The words and expressions used in these Regulations have the same meaning as
they have in the Act.

### Safeguarding and disposal of property

3

3.1

Property that is in a dwelling when the occupation contract ends under section
220 of the Act must be dealt with in accordance with these Regulations.

3.2

Subject to paragraph (4), the landlord must safeguard the property for the
prescribed period.

3.3

After expiry of the prescribed period, the landlord may dispose of any
remaining property.

3.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) do not apply to property—

3.4.a

which is perishable,

3.4.b

where to safeguard it adequately would involve unreasonable expense or
inconvenience, or

3.4.c

the value of which would not, in the opinion of the landlord, exceed the
amount which the landlord may deduct under regulation 5(1) from the proceeds
of sale of such property,

in which case the landlord may dispose of such property at such time and in
such manner as the landlord thinks fit.

### Delivery of property to owner

4

4.1

At any time prior to the disposal of any property under paragraph (3) or (4)
of regulation 3, the contract-holder, or any person who appears to the
landlord to have a right of ownership or possession in the property, may
arrange for delivery of that property to the contract-holder or that other
person.

4.2

Subject to paragraph (3), where delivery has been arranged under paragraph
(1), the landlord must relinquish custody of that property.

4.3

The landlord may require payment of such sum, as the landlord sees fit, equal
to or less than the amount of any expenses incurred by the landlord in
complying with these Regulations, before relinquishing custody of property
under this regulation.

### Landlord expenses and amounts due under the occupation contract

5

5.1

The landlord may apply any proceeds of disposal of property under paragraph
(3) or (4) of regulation 3, in satisfaction of expenses incurred by the
landlord in complying with these Regulations.

5.2

If there is any remainder, following the application of proceeds under
paragraph (1), the landlord may, after the end of the prescribed period, apply
it towards any arrears of rent due under the occupation contract.

### Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982

6

Section 41 of the Local Government (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1982  does
not apply to property which is in a dwelling owned or managed by a local
authority when an occupation contract in relation to that dwelling ends under
section 220 of the Act.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision about the landlord’s requirement to safeguard
property in a dwelling when an occupation contract ends under section 220
(possession of abandoned dwellings) of the Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016
(anaw 1)  (“ the Act ”).

Regulation 3(1) and (2) provide that, where an occupation contract ends
pursuant to section 220 of the Act, the landlord must safeguard property left
in the dwelling for four weeks from the day on which the contract ends.
Paragraph (3) provides that, unless the contract-holder (or other owner of the
property) arranges for delivery of that property to the relevant person (under
regulation 4), after the prescribed four weeks, the landlord may dispose of
any property remaining in their custody. Paragraph (4) specifies circumstances
when the duty to safeguard abandoned property does not apply and in those
cases the landlord may dispose of that property at any time after the end of
the contract.

Regulation 4(1) and (2) provide that, where the contract-holder or property
owner, arranges for delivery of the property to that person, the landlord must
relinquish custody of the property. Paragraph (3) enables the landlord to
require the payment of expenses incurred by the landlord in complying with
these Regulations before the landlord relinquishes custody.

Regulation 5 permits the landlord to deduct their expenses and any rent
arrears due under the occupation contract from the proceeds of any sale of
property under these Regulations.

Regulation 6 provides that property which is in an abandoned dwelling owned or
managed by a local authority, will be dealt with in accordance with these
Regulations where the occupation contract is ended under section 220 of the
Act.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained at
Department of Housing, Welsh Government, Rhydycar Business Park, Merthyr
Tydfil, CF48 1UZ.

