Title: The Allocation of Housing and Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) and Persons Subject to Immigration Control (Housing Authority Accommodation and Homelessness) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-16
Description: Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Allocation of Housing and Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) Regulations 2006 (S.I. 2006/1294). Those amendments ensure that certain persons in the United Kingdom who have limited leave to remain granted in accordance with Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules having made their immigration application from within the United Kingdom, are eligible for an allocation of housing accommodation and for housing assistance.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/601

## The Allocation of Housing and Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) and Persons Subject to Immigration Control (Housing Authority Accommodation and Homelessness) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2022

Immigration Housing, England Housing, Scotland Housing, Northern Ireland

Made 30th May 2022

Laid before Parliament 1st June 2022

Coming into force 22nd June 2022

The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 160ZA(2), 172(4), 185(2) and 215(2) of the
Housing Act 1996  and sections 118(1), 119(1) and 166(3) of the Immigration
and Asylum Act 1999 .

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Allocation of Housing and Homelessness
(Eligibility) (England) and Persons Subject to Immigration Control (Housing
Authority Accommodation and Homelessness) (Amendment) (No. 2) Regulations 2022
and come into force on   10   June 2022.

1.2

Any amendment made by these Regulations has the same extent as the provision
amended.

### Amendment of the Allocation of Housing and Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) Regulations 2006

2

2.1

The Allocation of Housing and Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) Regulations
2006  are amended as follows.

2.2

In regulation 3 (persons subject to immigration control who are eligible for
an allocation of housing accommodation), after paragraph (m) insert—

2.2.n

Class N – a person in the United Kingdom who has limited leave to remain
granted in accordance with Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules
pursuant to an application made by that person from within the United Kingdom,
but excluding a person (P) who is subject to a condition requiring P to
maintain and accommodate themself, and any person who is dependent on P,
without recourse to public funds.

.

2.3

In regulation 5(1) (persons subject to immigration control who are eligible
for housing assistance), after sub-paragraph (n) insert—

2.3.o

Class O – a person in the United Kingdom who has limited leave to remain
granted in accordance with Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration rules
pursuant to an application made by that person from within the United Kingdom,
but excluding a person (P) who is subject to a condition requiring P to
maintain and accommodate themself, and any person who is dependent on P,
without recourse to public funds.

.

### Amendment of the Persons subject to Immigration Control (Housing Authority Accommodation and Homelessness) Order 2000

3

3.1

The Persons subject to Immigration Control (Housing Authority Accommodation
and Homelessness) Order 2000  is amended as follows.

3.2

In article 3 (housing authority accommodation—England, Scotland and Northern
Ireland), after paragraph (ga) insert—

3.2.gb

Class FAB –– a person in the United Kingdom who has limited leave to remain
granted in accordance with Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the Immigration Rules
pursuant to an application made by that person from within the United Kingdom,
but excluding a person (P) who is subject to a condition requiring P to
maintain and accommodate themself, and any person who is dependent on P,
without recourse to public funds.

.

3.3

In article 7(1) (homelessness—Scotland and Northern Ireland), in sub-paragraph
(a), after “Class FAA,” insert  “Class FAB,” .

Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing and
Communities Eddie Hughes Parliamentary Under of State Department for Levelling
Up, Housing and Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

Regulation 2 of these Regulations amends the Allocation of Housing and
Homelessness (Eligibility) (England) Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/1294 ).
Those amendments ensure that certain persons in the United Kingdom who have
limited leave to remain granted in accordance with Appendix Ukraine Scheme of
the Immigration Rules having made their immigration application from within
the United Kingdom, are eligible for an allocation of housing accommodation
and for housing assistance.

Regulation 3 of these Regulations amends the Persons subject to Immigration
Control (Housing Authority Accommodation and Homelessness) Order 2000 ( S.I.
2000/706 ). Those amendments enable housing authorities in Scotland and
Northern Ireland to provide housing accommodation and housing authorities in
England, Scotland and Northern Ireland to provide homelessness assistance to
those persons referred to above.

A full Regulatory Impact Assessment has not been prepared for this instrument
because the impact on business is not likely to be significant.

