Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) (Modifications and Consequential and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulation make consequential and miscellaneous amendments in relation to schemes and sections of schemes providing collective money purchase benefits (“collective money purchase schemes”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/192

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) (Modifications and Consequential and Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations (Northern

    Pensions

  Made   1st July 2022

  Coming into operation   1st August 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 69(2)(b) and (4)(b), 93(1), (2),
(3) and (4) and 109(1), (2), (3) and (6) of the Pension Schemes (Northern
Ireland) Act 1993 , Articles 35(4), 67(3A), 73(2)(b), 75(1), 87(2), 92(1)(b)
and 166(1) and (2) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 , Article
3(1) of the Welfare Reform and Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 , and
now vested in it , Articles 200(1)(b) and (2), 236(1) and (2) and 280(1)(a) of
the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005  and sections 97(1) and (2) and
102(2) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 .

### Introduction

#### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective
Money Purchase Schemes) (Modifications and Consequential and Miscellaneous
Amendments) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation
on 1st August 2022.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendments

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Preservation of Benefit) Regulations

2

2.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Preservation of Benefit) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1991  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and
(3).

2.2

In regulation 12 (transfer of member’s accrued rights without consent)—

2.2.a

in paragraph (1)  for “For the purposes of” substitute  “Subject to paragraph
(3A), for the purposes of” ;

2.2.b

after paragraph (3) insert—

2.2.b.3A

A scheme may not provide for the member’s accrued rights which are not
relevant money purchase rights to be transferred to a collective money
purchase scheme without the member’s consent.

;

2.2.c

in paragraph (11)  before the definition of “controlling employer” insert—

    “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section of a
scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2
of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern
Ireland);

.

2.3

After regulation 12 insert—

########## Discharge of liabilities by collective money purchase scheme which is winding up

2.3.12A

2.3.12A.1

For the purposes of section 69(4), a collective money purchase scheme may
provide for the scheme’s liability to a beneficiary in respect of the
beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits under the scheme to be discharged in
accordance with the default discharge option for that beneficiary without the
consent of the beneficiary where—

2.3.12A.1.a

the scheme is pursuing continuity option 1 within the meaning of sections 85
(continuity options) and 87 (continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and
winding up) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021; and

2.3.12A.1.b

the trustees of the scheme do not receive a notice from the beneficiary in
accordance with paragraph 14 of Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
(continuity option 1: transfer out and winding up).

2.3.12A.2

In this regulation—

    “ beneficiary ” has the meaning given by section 87(8) of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021;         “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme
or a section of a scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme for the
purposes of Part 2 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase
benefits: Northern Ireland);         “ default discharge option ” has the
meaning given by paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension
Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2022.

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values) Regulations

3

3.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1996  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (9).

3.2

In regulation 1(2) (interpretation) after the definition of “categories of
benefits”  insert—

    “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section of a
scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2
of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern
Ireland);

.

3.3

After regulation 2 (pre-1986 leavers) insert—

########## Collective money purchase scheme during winding-up

3.3.2A

3.3.2A.1

Chapter 1 of Part 4ZA  of the Act does not apply to a member of a collective
money purchase scheme which is pursuing continuity option 1 within the meaning
of sections 85 (continuity options) and 87 (continuity option 1: discharge of
liabilities and winding up) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021, during the
winding-up period for that scheme.

3.3.2A.2

In this regulation, “ winding-up period ” has the meaning given by paragraph
1(1) of Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money
Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 (continuity option 1:
transfer out and winding up).

.

3.4

In regulation 7(1)(a)  (manner of calculation and verification of cash
equivalents – general provisions)—

3.4.a

in head (i) omit “or”;

3.4.b

in head (ii)—

3.4.b.i

for “money purchase benefits and cash balance benefits” substitute  “cash
balance benefits and money purchase benefits other than collective money
purchase benefits, or” ;

3.4.b.ii

for “regulation 7C,” substitute  “regulation 7C;” ;

3.4.c

after head (ii) add—

3.4.c.iii

for collective money purchase benefits, in accordance with regulation 7ZC,

;

3.4.d

for paragraph (5) substitute—

3.4.d.5

Where the cash equivalent relates to more than one of the benefits specified
in paragraph (1)(a)(i) to (iii), the initial cash equivalent is to be
calculated—

3.4.d.5.a

for the portion falling within paragraph (1)(a)(i), in accordance with
regulations 7A and 7B;

3.4.d.5.b

for the portion falling within paragraph (1)(a)(ii), in accordance with
regulation 7C; and

3.4.d.5.c

for the portion falling within paragraph (1)(a)(iii), in accordance with
regulation 7ZC .

.

3.5

In the heading to regulation 7C  (manner of calculation of initial cash
equivalents for money purchase benefits and cash balance benefits not
calculated by reference to final salary) after “money purchase benefits”
insert  “(other than collective money purchase benefits)” .

3.6

In regulation 7C(1)  after “money purchase benefits” insert  “other than
collective money purchase benefits” .

3.7

After regulation 7C insert—

########## Manner of calculation of initial cash equivalents for collective money purchase benfits

3.7.7ZC

3.7.7ZC.1

For collective money purchase benefits, the initial cash equivalent is the
realisable value of the member’s share at the date of calculation of the
available assets of the collective money purchase scheme, and is to be
calculated—

3.7.7ZC.1.a

on an actuarial basis;

3.7.7ZC.1.b

using assumptions determined in accordance with this regulation; and

3.7.7ZC.1.c

in accordance with the scheme rules, to the extent that they are consistent
with sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).

3.7.7ZC.2

Having taken the advice of the actuary, the trustees must—

3.7.7ZC.2.a

determine the economic, financial and demographic assumptions; and

3.7.7ZC.2.b

calculate the initial cash equivalent by using the assumptions so determined.

3.7.7ZC.3

In determining the demographic assumptions, the trustees must have regard to—

3.7.7ZC.3.a

the main characteristics of the members of the scheme; or

3.7.7ZC.3.b

where the members of the scheme do not form a large enough group to allow
demographic assumptions to be made, the characteristics of a wider population
sharing similar characteristics to the members.

3.7.7ZC.4

The trustees must have regard to the scheme’s investment strategy when
deciding what assumptions will be included in calculating the discount rates
in respect of the member.

3.7.7ZC.5

The trustees must determine the assumptions under this regulation with the aim
that, taken as a whole, they should lead to the best estimate of the initial
cash equivalent.

3.7.7ZC.6

In this regulation, “ the available assets of the collective money purchase
scheme ” has the meaning given by section 53(2) of the Pension Schemes Act
2021.

.

3.8

In regulation 13(1)  (extension of time limits for payment of cash
equivalents)—

3.8.a

for “section 95(2)(a) or, as the case may be, (b)” substitute  “section
95(2)(a), (b) or, as the case may be, (c) ” ;

3.8.b

at the end of sub-paragraph (bb) omit “or”;

3.8.c

after sub-paragraph (bb) insert—

3.8.c.bc

the scheme is, or within 3 months immediately before the end of that period
has been, the subject of a pause order under section 95(5) of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 which contains a direction under section 95(5)(e) of that Act
(no transfers etc of members’ rights); or

;

3.8.d

in sub-paragraph (c) for “(ba) or (bb)” substitute  “(ba), (bb) or (bc)” .

3.9

In Schedule 1 (information to be made available to members) after paragraph 3
add—

3.9.4

Where information is made available under this Schedule to a member of a
collective money purchase scheme, the information to be made available to such
a member also includes—

3.9.4.a

a statement that the Money and Pensions Service provides information about
transfers that may assist the member in deciding whether to transfer;

3.9.4.b

an explanation of any potential adverse consequences for the member of
transferring before normal pension age;

3.9.4.c

an explanation of the trustees’ duties under section 95A  (trustees’ further
duties: collective money purchase benefits);

3.9.4.d

an explanation that the member will not be able to transfer in the event of
the scheme pursuing continuity option 1 within the meaning of sections 85
(continuity options) and 87 (continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and
winding up) of the Pension Schemes Act 2021.

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding Up) Regulations

4

In regulation 13 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding Up) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1996  (hybrid schemes) for paragraph (2) substitute—

4.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant money purchase benefits ” means—

4.2.a

collective money purchase benefits ; and

4.2.b

other money purchase benefits, other than—

4.2.b.i

benefits derived from the payment by any member of voluntary contributions; or

4.2.b.ii

underpin benefits.

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Assignment, Forfeiture, Bankruptcy etc.) Regulations

5

In regulation 8 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Assignment, Forfeiture,
Bankruptcy etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997  (exemptions from the
inalienability and forfeiture provisions)—

5.a

after paragraph (7) insert—

5.a.7A

Article 89(1)(c)  does not apply to a scheme or a section of a scheme which is
a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland) and
which is pursuing continuity option 1 within the meaning of sections 85
(continuity options) and 87 (continuity option 1: discharge of liabilities and
winding up) of that Act, to the extent that it would prevent a reduction to
the quantification of the value of a beneficiary’s accrued rights to benefits
under the scheme to take account of any periodic income received by that
beneficiary in accordance with Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
(continuity option 1: transfer out and winding up).

;

5.b

after paragraph (8) add—

5.b.9

In paragraph (7A) “ periodic income ” has the meaning given by paragraph 1(1)
of Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase
Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

.

#### Amendment of the Stakeholder Pension Schemes Regulations

6

After regulation 19 of the Stakeholder Pension Schemes Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2000  (requirement for trustees of a stakeholder pension scheme
established under a trust) insert—

######## Requirement that a stakeholder pension is not a collective money purchase scheme

6.19A

For the purposes of Article 3(1)(b), it shall be a condition of a scheme being
a stakeholder pension scheme that it must not be a collective money purchase
scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective
money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland).

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Employer Debt) Regulations

7

In regulation 10(4) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Employer Debt)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (money purchase schemes: fraud and levy
deficiencies etc.)—

7.a

in the definition of “the levy deficit” for “paragraph (2).” substitute
“paragraph (2);” ;

7.b

after the definition of “the levy deficit” insert—

    “ money purchase schemes ” does not include a scheme or a section of a
scheme that is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2
of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern
Ireland).

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding up, etc.) Regulations

8

In regulation 3 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding up, etc.)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (schemes to which Article 73 of the 1995
Order does not apply) after paragraph (1) insert—

8.1A

Article 73 of the 1995 Order does not apply to a section of a scheme that is a
collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland).

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Funding) Regulations

9

In regulation 17(1) of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Funding)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (exemptions – general)—

9.a

in sub-paragraph (k) for “114, or” substitute  “114;” ;

9.b

in sub-paragraph (l) for “wound up.” substitute  “wound up, or”

9.c

after sub-paragraph (l) add—

9.c.m

a scheme or a section of a scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme
for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money
purchase benefits: Northern Ireland).

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations

10

In regulation 2A of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2005  (additional requirements in relation to default
arrangement) after paragraph (6) add—

10.7

This regulation does not apply to a scheme or a section of a scheme which is a
collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland).

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Consultation by Employers) Regulations

11

In regulation 10 of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes
(Consultation by Employers) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006  (listed
changes: exclusions)—

11.a

in paragraph (1) after sub-paragraph (ab) insert—

11.a.ac

which is or results in an adjustment of the rate or amount of benefits
provided under a collective money purchase scheme, provided that such
adjustment is made in accordance with—

11.a.ac.i

the most recent actuarial valuation or (as the case may be) any multi-annual
reduction in effect, and

11.a.ac.ii

the scheme rules;

11.a.ad

which is made in respect of a collective money purchase scheme that is
pursuing continuity option 1 in accordance with—

11.a.ad.i

Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase
Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022  (continuity option 1: transfer
out and winding up), or

11.a.ad.ii

scheme rules made in accordance with that Schedule;

;

11.b

after paragraph (3) add—

11.b.4

In this regulation—

    “ actuarial valuation ”, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, has the meaning given by section 71(2) of the Pension Schemes Act
2021;         “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section
of a scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of
Part 2 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits:
Northern Ireland);         “ multi-annual reduction ” has the meaning given by
regulation 2 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase
Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022.

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Modification of Schemes) Regulations

12

12.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Modification of Schemes) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2006  are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) and
(3).

12.2

In regulation 1(2) (interpretation) after the definition of “the 2015 Act”
insert—

    “ actuarial valuation ”, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, has the meaning given by section 71(2) of the Pension Schemes Act
2021;         “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section
of a scheme that is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of
Part 2 of the Pension Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits:
Northern Ireland);         “ multi-annual reduction ” has the meaning given by
regulation 2 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase
Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022;

;

12.3

In regulation 3  (non-application of the subsisting rights provisions)—

12.3.a

in paragraph (i)(ii) for “spouse, or” substitute  “ spouse;” ;

12.3.b

in paragraph (j)(ii) for “spouse.” substitute  “ spouse;” ;

12.3.c

after paragraph (j)(ii) add—

12.3.c.k

which is or results in an adjustment of the rate or amount of benefits
provided under a collective money purchase scheme, provided that such
adjustment is made in accordance with—

12.3.c.k.i

the most recent actuarial valuation or (as the case may be) any multi-annual
reduction in effect, and

12.3.c.k.ii

the scheme rules, or

12.3.c.l

which is made in respect of a collective money purchase scheme that is
pursuing continuity option 1 in accordance with—

12.3.c.l.i

Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase
Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 (continuity option 1: transfer
out and winding up), or

12.3.c.l.ii

scheme rules made in accordance with the requirements of that Schedule.

.

#### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations

13

13.1

The Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  are amended in accordance with paragraphs
(2) to (19).

13.2

In regulation 2(1) (interpretation)—

13.2.a

after the definition of “the 2014 Act”  insert—

    “ the 2021 Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act 2021;

;

13.2.b

after the definition of “accrued rights” insert—

    “ actuarial valuation ”, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, has the meaning given by section 71(2) of the 2021 Act;         “ the
available assets of the scheme ”, in relation to a collective money purchase
scheme, has the meaning given by section 53(2) of the 2021 Act;

;

13.2.c

after the definition of “cash balance benefit”  insert—

    “ collective money purchase scheme ” means a scheme or a section of a
scheme which is a collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2
of the 2021 Act (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland);

;

13.2.d

in the definition of “illustration date” after “Schedule 6” insert  “and in
Schedule 6A ” ;

13.2.e

after the definition of “member” insert—

    “ multi-annual reduction ” has the meaning given by regulation 2 of the
Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2022;

.

13.3

In regulation 4 (application of these Regulations)—

13.3.a

for paragraph (1)  substitute—

13.3.a.1

Subject to paragraphs (2), (3), (6) and (9), the trustees or managers of an
occupational pension scheme that falls within paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 must
give information in accordance with regulations 6, 8, 9 to 17, 18 to 22, 24
and 25 and, where the scheme falls within Article 35 of the 1995 Order
(investment principles) or the scheme is a relevant scheme within the meaning
of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme Administration) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1997 , regulation 29A .

;

13.3.b

after paragraph (8)  add—

13.3.b.9

Regulations 12A , 17, 18B , 19  and 25  do not apply to a collective money
purchase scheme.

13.3.b.10

For the purposes of these Regulations, where a pension scheme is divided into
sections, each section that is a collective money purchase scheme is to be
treated as a separate scheme.

.

13.4

In regulation 8 (material alterations to basic scheme information) after
paragraph (5) add—

13.4.6

This regulation does not apply where regulation 8A applies.

.

13.5

After regulation 8 insert—

########## Scheme closure: collective money purchase schemes

13.5.8A

13.5.8A.1

In relation to a collective money purchase scheme, the information specified
in paragraphs (2) and (3) must be given in accordance with this regulation.

13.5.8A.2

The information listed in paragraphs 30 to 33  of Schedule 2 must be given as
soon as practicable and in any event no more than one month after a decision
by the trustees to pursue continuity option 3.

13.5.8A.3

The information listed in paragraphs 34 to 38 of Schedule 2 must be given as
soon as is practicable and in any event no more than one month after the date
on which the Regulator notifies the trustees in accordance with section 89(4)
of the 2021 Act (continuity option 3: conversion to closed scheme).

13.5.8A.4

The information must be given to all members and beneficiaries of the scheme
except for excluded persons.

13.5.8A.5

In this regulation, and in Schedule 2, “continuity option 3” is the conversion
of the scheme into a closed scheme in accordance with sections 85 (continuity
options) and 89 of the 2021 Act and regulations made section 89 of that Act.

.

13.6

After regulation 17 (statements of benefits: money purchase benefits) insert—

########## Statements of benefits: collective money purchase schemes

13.6.17A

13.6.17A.1

The information mentioned in paragraph (2) must be given in accordance with
this regulation to a member of a collective money purchase scheme who is not—

13.6.17A.1.a

an excluded person, or

13.6.17A.1.b

a member to whom benefits under the scheme have, or are about to, become
payable.

13.6.17A.2

The information is—

13.6.17A.2.a

for active members, the information listed in Parts 1, 2 and 4 of Schedule 6A;

13.6.17A.2.b

for deferred members, the information listed in Parts 1, 2, 3 and 5 of
Schedule 6A, and

13.6.17A.2.c

for pension credit members, the information listed in Parts 1 and 3 of
Schedule 6A.

13.6.17A.3

The information must be given—

13.6.17A.3.a

no more than 12 months after the effective date of the first actuarial
valuation, and

13.6.17A.3.b

thereafter, no more than 12 months after the end of each scheme year.

13.6.17A.4

In this regulation, “the effective date” is the date by reference to which the
available assets of the scheme are determined.

13.6.17A.5

A notification need not be given under regulation 27 in relation to the
information on the website that is also given to the person in accordance with
paragraphs 15 and 16 of Schedule 6A.

.

13.7

In regulation 18A  (information to be given on request and on a member
providing certain information) after paragraph (2) insert—

13.7.2A

In relation to a collective money purchase scheme, information given in
accordance with paragraph (2)(a) must include a statement that—

13.7.2A.a

there is no promise or guarantee as to the rate or amount of benefits provided
under the scheme, and

13.7.2A.b

the rate or amount of benefits may fluctuate, which may result in—

13.7.2A.b.i

reduced benefits before benefit becomes payable;

13.7.2A.b.ii

reduced benefits after benefit becomes payable.

.

13.8

In regulation 22 (changes to benefits) after paragraph (2) add—

13.8.3

This regulation does not apply where regulation 22B applies.

.

13.9

After regulation 22 insert—

########## Benefit adjustment information: collective money purchase schemes

13.9.22A

13.9.22A.1

Information listed in paragraphs 15 to 20  of Schedule 7 must be provided in
accordance with this regulation to members and beneficiaries of a collective
money purchase scheme.

13.9.22A.2

The information must be given each time an actuarial valuation is obtained—

13.9.22A.2.a

as soon as reasonably practicable after the certification of the actuarial
valuation by the scheme actuary, and

13.9.22A.2.b

no less than 6 weeks before any adjustment to the rate or amount of benefits
provided under the scheme following the latest actuarial valuation is applied,
where reasonably practicable.

########## Incorrect benefit adjustments in collective money purchase schemes

13.9.22B

13.9.22B.1

The information listed in paragraphs 21 to 27 of Schedule 7 must be given in
accordance with this regulation where—

13.9.22B.1.a

the scheme is a collective money purchase scheme, and

13.9.22B.1.b

a benefit adjustment has not been applied in accordance with the scheme rules
or (as the case may be) the latest actuarial valuation.

13.9.22B.2

The information must be given as soon as reasonably practicable to members and
beneficiaries who have been or will be affected by the failure to apply the
benefit adjustment in accordance with the scheme rules or (as the case may be)
the latest actuarial valuation.

.

13.10

In regulation 24(6) (occupational pension schemes during winding up) before
sub-paragraph (a) insert—

13.10.za

in relation to a collective money purchase scheme, in accordance with
paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Collective
Money Purchase Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 (continuity option
1: transfer out and winding up);

.

13.11

In regulation 27(1)  (provision of information on a website) for “regulation
29A provides” substitute  “regulations 29A and 29B provide” .

13.12

In regulation 29A(2) (publishing charges and transaction costs and other
relevant information) after sub-paragraph (b) insert—

13.12.ba

paragraph (1)(cza);

.

13.13

After regulation 29A insert—

########## Additional publication requirements for collective money purchase schemes

13.13.29B

13.13.29B.1

In relation to a collective money purchase scheme, the information specified
in paragraphs (2) to (4) must be published in accordance with this regulation.

13.13.29B.2

The following information must be published no more than one month after the
date on which the Regulator notifies the applicant of its decision to
authorise the scheme—

13.13.29B.2.a

a statement explaining the design of the scheme, which must contain the
information listed in Part 1 of Schedule 9B, and

13.13.29B.2.b

the scheme’s rules.

13.13.29B.3

The information listed in Part 2 of Schedule 9B must be published no more than
3 months after the latest actuarial valuation is sent to the Regulator.

13.13.29B.4

The model used to calculate information specified in paragraphs 5, 6, 19, 20
and 23 to 25 of Schedule 6A must be published as soon as reasonably
practicable after information is first provided in accordance with regulation
17A.

13.13.29B.5

Where there is a change in relation to the information listed in paragraph 4
or 5 of Schedule 9B, the statement mentioned in sub-paragraph (2)(a) must be
altered accordingly, and published before or as soon as practicable after the
change.

13.13.29B.6

Each time the document specified in sub-paragraph (2)(b) is changed after it
is first published, the changed version must be published before or as soon as
possible after (and in any event within 3 months after) the change.

13.13.29B.7

A notification need not be given under regulation 27 in relation to the
information on the website that is published in accordance with this
regulation.

13.13.29B.8

Where a person requests the trustees of the scheme to provide the information
referred to in paragraph (2), (3) or (4) in hard copy form, the trustees of
the scheme must give that information to the person in hard copy form where,
but only where, the trustees are satisfied that it would be unreasonable for
that person to obtain it from the website on which it is published.

13.13.29B.9

Where information is required to be given in hard copy form in accordance with
paragraph (8), it must be given within 2 months of the date the request is
made.

13.13.29B.10

In this regulation, “ published ” means made publicly available free of charge
on a website.

.

13.14

In Schedule 2 (basic information)—

13.14.a

in paragraph 15(d) after “increased” insert  “or decreased” ;

13.14.b

in paragraph 16  after “including” insert  “where appropriate” ;

13.14.c

after paragraph 18 insert—

13.14.c.18A

In respect of a collective money purchase scheme, a statement that—

13.14.c.18A.a

there is no promise or guarantee as to the rate or amount of benefit provided
under the scheme, and

13.14.c.18A.b

the rate or amount of benefits may fluctuate, which may result in—

13.14.c.18A.b.i

reduced benefits before benefit becomes payable;

13.14.c.18A.b.ii

reduced benefits after benefit becomes payable.

13.14.c.18B

In respect of a collective money purchase scheme, a summary of the rules
governing how the rate or amount of benefits provided under the scheme is to
be adjusted from time to time, including—

13.14.c.18B.a

that annual benefit calculations and any adjustments of the rate or amount of
benefits are applied to all the members of the scheme without variation;

13.14.c.18B.b

where relevant, an explanation of how any multi-annual reduction permitted
under the scheme rules operates and the effect it may have on the rate or
amount of benefits provided under the scheme, and

13.14.c.18B.c

the arrangements in place for making any adjustments to the rate or amount of
benefits provided to pensioner members.

.

13.14.d

after Part 3 (lifestyling) add—

############ Scheme closure: collective money purchase schemes

13.14.d.30

A statement that a decision has been made to pursue continuity option 3.

13.14.d.31

A summary of the reasons for the decision in paragraph 30.

13.14.d.32

An estimate of when information will be provided in accordance with paragraphs
34 to 38.

13.14.d.33

A statement that the scheme will continue to operate in respect of its current
members and beneficiaries.

13.14.d.34

A statement confirming that the scheme will be closed, which must include
whether it will be closed to new contributions or new members (or both).

13.14.d.36

The date the scheme will begin to operate as a closed scheme.

13.14.d.37

A statement explaining any impact that the closure will have in relation to
accrued rights to benefits under the scheme, including any differences in
impact for active, deferred and pensioner members.

13.14.d.38

The arrangements for—

13.14.d.38.a

the future operation of the scheme, and

13.14.d.38.b

where the scheme will be closed to new contributions, any scheme or section of
a scheme to which future contributions may be made.

.

13.15

In Schedule 3 (information to be given on request)—

13.15.a

in paragraph 2 after “rules” insert  “(except where regulation 29B applies)” ;

13.15.b

after paragraph 10 insert—

13.15.b.10A

In respect of a collective money purchase scheme, the latest actuarial
valuation.

;

13.15.c

in paragraph 22—

13.15.c.i

after “money purchase scheme” insert  “other than a collective money purchase
scheme” ;

13.15.c.ii

for “increases”, in each place where it occurs, substitute  “increases or
decreases” .

13.16

After Schedule 6 (statements of benefits: money purchase benefits and cash
balance benefits ) insert Schedule 6A as set out in Schedule 1 to these
Regulations.

13.17

In Schedule 7 (information to be given by schemes that relates to accessing
benefits)—

13.17.a

in the heading after “benefits” insert  “and to benefit adjustments” ;

13.17.b

after paragraph 6 insert—

13.17.b.6A

In relation to a collective money purchase scheme, a statement that—

13.17.b.6A.a

there is no promise or guarantee as to the rate or amount of benefit provided
under the scheme, and

13.17.b.6A.b

the rate or amount of benefits may fluctuate, which may result in—

13.17.b.6A.b.i

reduced benefits before benefit becomes payable;

13.17.b.6A.b.ii

reduced benefits after benefit becomes payable.

;

13.17.c

in paragraph 10—

13.17.c.i

after “increased” insert  “or decreased” ;

13.17.c.ii

after “increases” insert  “or decreases” ;

13.17.d

after Part 3  (information to be given to members having an opportunity to
transfer flexible benefits) add—

############ Information to be given by collective money purchase schemes about benefit adjustments

13.17.d.15

Where benefit is not yet payable to the person—

13.17.d.15.a

the amount representing the member’s share of the available assets of the
scheme;

13.17.d.15.b

the period for which that amount applies;

13.17.d.15.c

except where information under this paragraph is provided to the person for
the first time—

13.17.d.15.c.i

any adjustment to that amount since the previous year, both in monetary terms
and as a percentage increase or decrease;

13.17.d.15.c.ii

where applicable, an explanation of why that amount has been adjusted or, as
the case may be, remained the same, and

13.17.d.15.d

an explanation of when an adjustment in that amount may next occur.

13.17.d.16

Where benefit is payable to the person—

13.17.d.16.a

the amount of benefit that is payable;

13.17.d.16.b

the period for which that amount applies;

13.17.d.16.c

except where information under this paragraph is provided to the person for
the first time—

13.17.d.16.c.i

any adjustment to the amount of benefit payable from the previous year, both
in monetary terms and as a percentage increase or decrease;

13.17.d.16.c.ii

an explanation of why the amount of benefit payable has been adjusted or, as
the case may be, remained the same, and

13.17.d.16.d

an explanation of when an adjustment in the amount of benefit payable may next
occur.

13.17.d.17

Any rights or options a person may be entitled to exercise in the event of a
member or beneficiary dying, and any procedures for exercising those rights or
options.

13.17.d.18

A statement that there is no promise or guarantee as to the amount of benefit
that may be provided under the scheme, that the rate or amount of benefits may
fluctuate, and that this may result in reduced benefits.

13.17.d.19

A summary of the method and assumptions used to calculate the benefit
adjustments.

13.17.d.20

The postal and electronic address to which enquiries relating to the
information provided in accordance with regulation 22A should be sent.

13.17.d.21

The level of the benefit adjustment that should have been applied in
accordance with the latest actuarial valuation and the schemes rules.

13.17.d.22

The level of the benefit adjustment that was actually applied.

13.17.d.23

Where the benefit adjustment that was actually applied was not the adjustment
that should have been applied in accordance with the latest actuarial
valuation and the schemes rules, any proposed remedial actions.

13.17.d.24

A timetable for implementing any remedial actions.

13.17.d.25

A statement indicating whether the failure to apply the benefit adjustment in
accordance with the scheme rules or (as the case may be) the latest actuarial
valuation has resulted in any negative impact on the scheme’s ongoing ability
to deliver the pension benefits envisaged under the design of the scheme.

13.17.d.26

Where there is a likely negative impact on the scheme’s ongoing ability to
deliver the pension benefits envisaged, details of any proposed actions to
address the negative impact.

13.17.d.27

An explanation of what the trustees will do to ensure benefit adjustments are
applied correctly in future.

.

13.18

In Schedule 8 (information to be given by schemes about winding up) in
paragraph 7 for “Either” substitute  “Except in the case of a collective money
purchase scheme, either” .

13.19

After Schedule 9A  (information to be give on the pensions guidance and
members’ benefits) insert Schedule 9B as set out in Schedule 2 to these
Regulations.

### Modifications

#### Modifications of treatment of hybrid schemes under the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005

14

14.1

The Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005  as it applies in relation to
hybrid schemes is modified in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (4).

14.2

Article 34 (contribution notices where avoidance of employer debt) is to be
read as if after paragraph (1) there were inserted—

14.2.1A

Where a pension scheme is divided into sections, each section that is a
collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland) (see
section 52(2)(b) of that Act) is to be treated for the purposes of this
Article and Articles 34A to 38B  as a separate occupational pension scheme
which is a money purchase scheme.

.

14.3

Each Article of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005 referred to in
paragraph (4) is to be read as if after paragraph (1) of each of those
Articles there were inserted—

14.3.1A

Where a pension scheme is divided into sections, each section that is a
collective money purchase scheme for the purposes of Part 2 of the Pension
Schemes Act 2021 (collective money purchase benefits: Northern Ireland) (see
section 52(2)(b) of that Act) is to be treated for the purposes of this
Article as a separate occupational pension scheme which is a money purchase
scheme.

.

14.4

The Articles are—

14.4.a

Article 39 (financial support directions);

14.4.b

Article 48 (restoration orders where transactions at an undervalue);

14.4.c

Article 54A  (offence of avoidance of employer debt);

14.4.d

Article 54B (offence of conduct risking accrued scheme benefits);

14.4.e

Article 54C  (financial penalty for avoidance of employer debt);

14.4.f

Article 54D (financial penalty for conduct risking accrued scheme benefits).

    Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 1st
July 2022     (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the Department for
Communities

  Schedule to be inserted after Schedule 6 to the Occupational and Personal
Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2014

Regulation 13(16)

  Statements of benefits: collective money purchase benefits

Regulation 17A(2)

######## Information for active, deferred and pension credit members

1

The date on which the member’s pensionable service started.

2

The member’s retirement date and age used for the purposes of the information
given under this Schedule.

3

The illustration date.

4

An explanation of how the member may obtain further details about the
information given under this Schedule.

5

The amount that represents the member’s share of the available assets of the
scheme at the illustration date.

6

The amount that represented the member’s share of the available assets of the
scheme at the previous year’s illustration date, where applicable.

7

Details of any deduction from the member’s benefits.

8

Where applicable, a statement that, if the member exercises rights or options
to access benefits under the scheme before the member’s retirement date, the
amount of the member’s benefits is likely to be lower.

9

A statement that there may be increases and decreases in the amount that
represents the value of the member’s share of the available assets of the
scheme from time to time until the member’s retirement date.

10

A statement that illustrations of the amount of pension that may be payable to
the member on the member’s retirement date—

10.a

do not represent any promise or guarantee as to the amount of benefits that
may be receivable by the member under the scheme, and

10.b

are calculated using projections based on actuarial assumptions as to
uncertain future events, and that the actual amount could be higher or lower.

11

A statement that—

11.a

any future increases or decreases in the rate or amount of benefits provided
under the scheme will depend on the available assets of the scheme;

11.b

assumptions have been made about the nature of the scheme’s investments and
their likely performance, and

11.c

those assumptions may not correspond with the investments actually made or
their actual performance.

12

A statement that the amounts in any illustrations of amount of pension given
are expressed in today’s prices.

13

Either—

13.a

an explanation of the meaning and basis of “today’s prices”, or

13.b

a statement that such an explanation is—

13.b.i

provided in a specified annex, or

13.b.ii

available on a website, in which case the statement must include the
information listed in regulation 27(2).

14

Where any illustrations of amount of pension are expressed as a range, an
explanation of the extent of variability which the range represents.

15

In relation to the information that must be published on a website in
accordance with regulation 29A(2) and (2A) (publishing charges and transaction
costs and other relevant information)—

15.a

the information specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (d) of regulation 27(2),
and

15.b

a statement explaining the circumstances in which the information will be
provided on request in hard copy form.

16

Where the trustees are required to publish a report on a website in accordance
with regulation 5 of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Climate Change
Governance and Reporting) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2021  (climate change
reporting and publication requirements), in relation to the most recent report
published—

16.a

the information specified in sub-paragraphs (a) to (d) of regulation 27(2) of
these Regulations, and

16.b

a statement explaining the circumstances in which the report will be provided
on request in hard copy form.

17

Either—

17.a

a summary of the methods and assumptions used to calculate—

17.a.i

the member’s share of the available assets of the scheme, and

17.a.ii

the member’s future benefit illustrations, or

17.b

a statement that such a summary is—

17.b.i

provided in a specified annex, or

17.b.ii

available on a website, in which case the statement must include the
information listed in regulation 27(2).

######## Information for active and deferred members

18

Where the member has reached normal minimum pension age on the illustration
date, a statement explaining that the member may request the following
information—

18.a

the flexible benefits that may be provided to the member;

18.b

the member’s opportunity to transfer flexible benefits, and

18.c

the options available to the member under the scheme rules.

######## Information for deferred and pension credit members

19

An illustration, having regard to the latest actuarial modelling under the
scheme, of the amount of any survivor’s benefits, as if these were payable on
the illustration date.

20

An illustration of the amount of pension, having regard to the latest
actuarial modelling under the scheme, that may be payable to the member on
their retirement date.

21

Either—

21.a

a summary of the method used for calculating any survivor’s benefits, or

21.b

a statement that such a summary is—

21.b.i

provided in a specified annex, or

21.b.ii

available on a website, including the information listed in regulation 27(2).

######## Information for active members

22

The difference between the amount that represents the member’s share of the
available assets of the scheme at the illustration date and the amount that
represented the member’s share of the available assets of the scheme at the
previous year’s illustration date.

23

The amount, at the illustration date, of any benefits payable on the death of
the member.

24

An illustration of the amount of pension, which may be payable to the member
at their retirement date if pensionable service were to end on the
illustration date, having regard to the latest actuarial modelling under the
scheme.

25

An illustration of the amount of pension, which may be payable to the member
at their retirement date if contributions continue, having regard to the
latest actuarial modelling under the scheme.

26

A statement that it is assumed the active member will continue to contribute,
or a contribution will be made on the member’s behalf, to the scheme until
their retirement date.

27

A statement as to any assumed salary increases taken into account in
calculating the illustration provided in accordance with paragraph 25.

28

Either—

28.a

a summary of the method used for calculating the member’s death in service
benefits, or

28.b

a statement that such a summary is—

28.b.i

provided in a specified annex, or

28.b.ii

available on a website, including the information listed in regulation 27(2).

######## Information for deferred members

29

The date on which the member became a deferred member.

30

A statement that no further contributions are expected to be made to the
scheme by, or in respect of, the member after the illustration date.

  Schedule to be inserted after Schedule 9A to the Occupational and Personal
Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2014

Regulation 13(19)

  Statements to be published by collective money purchase schemes

Regulation 29B(2) and (3)

######## Scheme design statement

1

A summary of—

1.a

the rate or amount specified in the rules of the scheme by reference to which
collective money purchase benefits accrue each year under the scheme;

1.b

the rate or amount of contributions paid by the employer;

1.c

the rate or amount of contributions paid by the member;

1.d

the normal pension age as specified in the rules of the scheme.

2

A statement that—

2.a

there is no promise or guarantee as to the rate or amount of benefits provided
under the scheme, and

2.b

the rate or amount of benefits may fluctuate, which may result in—

2.b.i

reduced benefits before benefit becomes payable;

2.b.ii

reduced benefits after benefit becomes payable.

3

A summary of the rules governing how the rate or amount of benefits provided
under the scheme is to be adjusted from time to time, including—

3.a

that annual benefit calculations and any adjustments of the rate or amount of
benefits are applied to all the members of the scheme without variation, and

3.b

where relevant, an explanation of how any multi-annual reduction permitted
under the scheme rules operates and the effect it may have on the rate or
amount of benefits provided under the scheme.

4

An explanation of how the trustees of the scheme will monitor risks to the
scheme including potential negative impacts on the rate or amount of benefits
provided under the scheme.

5

A summary of the procedure that would be followed in the event of the winding
up of the scheme.

######## Valuation and benefit adjustment statement

6

The name of the scheme to which the statement relates.

7

A summary of the results of the latest actuarial valuation of the scheme,
based on the latest actuarial valuation report, including any resulting
benefit adjustment.

8

An explanation of the methods and assumptions used in the latest actuarial
valuation.

9

The effective date of the latest actuarial valuation to which the explanation
in paragraph 8 relates.

10

A description of the model used to calculate benefit illustrations for the
purpose of annual benefit statements.

11

In the case of the first valuation statement for the scheme, an explanation of
any changes to the methods and assumptions used in the application for
authorisation.

12

In the case of all subsequent statements, an explanation of any changes to the
actuarial valuation or to the methods and assumptions used in the last
statement.

13

The name and postal or email address of a person to whom enquiries relating to
the information under this Part should be sent.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulation make consequential and miscellaneous amendments in relation
to schemes and sections of schemes providing collective money purchase
benefits (“collective money purchase schemes”).

Regulation 2 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Preservation of Benefit) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1991 so that bulk
transfers without consent from a defined benefits scheme to a collective money
purchase scheme will not be permitted and to allow bulk transfers where a
collective money purchase scheme is being wound up.

Regulation 3 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer
Values) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 to provide for a method of
calculating cash equivalent transfer value for collective money purchase
schemes.

Regulation 4 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding Up)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1996 so that provisions stemming from Article
73 of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 (“ the 1995 Order ”) do not
apply to scheme sections providing collective money purchase benefits.

Regulation 5 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Assignment,
Forfeiture, Bankruptcy etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1997 to allow the
periodic payments paid during the winding up of a collective money purchase
scheme to be offset against the value of the member’s accrued rights.

Regulation 6 makes amendments to the Stakeholder Pension Schemes Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 2000 to provide that a collective money purchase scheme
cannot be a stakeholder pension scheme.

Regulation 7 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Employer
Debt) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 so that employer debt provisions
stemming from Article 75 of the 1995 1995 do not apply to collective money
purchase schemes.

Regulation 8 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Winding up,
etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 so that provisions stemming from
Article 73 of the 1995 Order do not apply to scheme sections providing
collective money purchase benefits.

Regulation 9 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Scheme
Funding) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 so that scheme funding
requirements do not apply to scheme sections that provide collective money
purchase benefits.

Regulation 10 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 to reflect that collective
money purchase schemes will not have a default arrangement.

Regulation 11 makes amendments to the Occupational and Personal Pension
Schemes (Consultation by Employers) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 so
that there will be no requirement to consult in respect of collective money
purchase benefit adjustments made in accordance with the latest actuarial
valuation and the scheme rules.

Regulation 12 makes amendments to the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Modification of Schemes) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006 so that the 1995
Order subsisting rights provisions do not apply to collective money purchase
schemes in respect of adjustments to benefits nor in respect of
decollectivisation on winding up.

Regulation 13 makes amendments to the Occupational and Personal Pension
Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 to
provide for a disclosure and publication regime for collective money purchase
schemes.

As these Regulations, in so far as they are made under the 1995 Order and the
Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 2005, make in relation to Northern Ireland
only provision corresponding to provision contained in regulations made by the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain, the
requirement for consultation does not apply by virtue of Article 117(2)(e) of
the 1995 Order and Article 289(2)(e) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order
2005.

An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment, a copy of which has been laid in the Business
Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Copies of the
Assessment are available from the Department for Communities, Social Security
Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 6, Causeway Exchange,
1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website:
https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the
Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

