Title: The Official Controls (Imports of High Risk Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-06-27
Description: These Regulations amend Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of official controls and emergency measures governing the entry into the Union of certain goods from certain third countries implementing Regulations (EU) 2017/625 and (EC) No 178/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Commission Regulations (EC) No 669/2009, (EU) No 884/2014, (EU) 2015/175, (EU) 2017/186 and (EU) 2018/1660 (“Regulation (EU) 2019/1793”) in relation to England.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1193

## The Official Controls (Imports of High Risk Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (England) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture, England       Food, England

  Made   16th November 2022

  Laid before Parliament   17th November 2022

  Coming into force   17th January 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by Articles 53(1)(b) and 57a(6) of Regulation  (EC) No. 178/2002  of
the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the general principles
and requirements of food law, establishing the European Food Safety Authority
and laying down procedures in matters of food safety  (“ Regulation 178/2002
”) and Articles 47(2)(b), 54(4)(a) and (b) and 144(6) of Regulation (EU)
2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council on official controls
and other official activities performed to ensure the application of food and
feed law, rules on animal health and welfare, plant health and plant
protection products (“ Official Controls Regulation ”) .       As required by
Article 9 of Regulation 178/2002, there has been open and transparent public
consultation during the preparation and evaluation of these Regulations.
As required by Article 144(7) of the Official Controls Regulations, the
Secretary of State has consulted with such bodies or persons as appear
appropriate.

### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Official Controls (Imports of High Risk
Food and Feed of Non-Animal Origin) (Amendment of Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793) (England) Regulations 2022 and come into force on
17th January 2023.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales but apply in relation to England
only.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of official controls and emergency measures, etc

2

2.1

Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on the temporary increase of
official controls and emergency measures governing the entry into the Union of
certain goods from certain third countries implementing Regulations (EU)
2017/625 and  (EC) No 178/2002  of the European Parliament and of the Council
and repealing Commission Regulations  (EC) No 669/2009 ,  (EU) No 884/2014 ,
(EU) 2015/175 ,  (EU) 2017/186  and  (EU) 2018/1660  is amended as follows.

2.2

In Article 1, in paragraph 1(b)—

2.2.a

in subparagraph (i), for “Table 1” substitute  “Table 1 (England)” ;

2.2.b

in subparagraph (ii)—

2.2.b.i

for “Table 1” substitute  “Table 1 (England)” ;

2.2.b.ii

for “Table 2” substitute  “Table 2 (England)” .

2.3

In Article 8 —

2.3.a

in paragraph 3—

2.3.a.i

for both references to “Table 2” substitute  “Table 2 (England)” ;

2.3.a.ii

for “Table 1”, in each place, substitute  “Table 1 (England)” .

2.3.b

In paragraph 4—

2.3.b.i

for “Table 2” substitute  “Table 2 (England)” ;

2.3.b.ii

for “Table 1”, in each place substitute  “Table 1 (England)” .

2.4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.5

In Annex 2—

2.5.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.5.b

for the second table (Compound food referred to in Article 1(1)(b)(ii)
substitute the table in Schedule 3.

2.6

In Annex 2a, for the table substitute the table in Schedule 4.

      Neil O’Brien   Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State,   Department of
Health and Social Care     16th November 2022

Substitution of the table in Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation
(EU) 2019/1793 in relation to England

Regulation 2(4)

Substitution of the first table in Annex 2 to Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 in relation to England

Regulation 2(5)(a)

  Substitution of the second table in Annex 2 to Commission Implementing
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 in relation to England

Regulation 2(5)(b)

  Table 2: England   Compound food containing any of the individual products
listed in table 1 of this Annex due to risk of contamination by aflatoxins in
a quantity above 20% of either a single product or as the sum of products
listed referred to in Article 1(1)(b)(ii)       CN Code    Description
(1)       Where only certain products under any CN code are required to be
examined, the CN code is marked ‘ex’.             (2)       The description of
the goods is as laid down in the description column of the CN in Annex I to
Regulation  (EEC) No 2658/87 .             (3)       Mixtures of two or more
of the products of different headings are to be classified in the heading
0910.           ex1704 90 Sugar confectionery (including white chocolate), not
containing cocoa, other than chewing gum, whether or not sugar-coated. ex 1806
Chocolate and other food preparations containing cocoa. ex 1905 Bread, pastry,
cakes, biscuits and other bakers’ wares, whether or not containing cocoa;
communion wafers, empty cachets of a kind suitable for pharmaceutical use,
sealing wafers, rice paper and similar products. 0910 91 Mixtures of spices  .

  Substitution of the table in Annex 2a to Commission Implementing Regulation
(EU) 2019/1793 in relation to England

Regulation 2(6)

  Table: England   Food and feed from certain third countries subject to
suspension of entry into Great Britain referred to in Article 11a       Row
Country of origin Food and feed (intended use) CN code TARIC sub-division
Hazard       (1)       Where only certain products under any CN code are
required to be examined, the CN code is marked ‘ex’.           1 Nigeria (NG)
Food       consisting of       dried beans         (Food)     0713 35 00
Pesticide residues 0713 39 00 0713 90 00

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 on
the temporary increase of official controls and emergency measures governing
the entry into the Union of certain goods from certain third countries
implementing Regulations (EU) 2017/625 and  (EC) No 178/2002  of the European
Parliament and of the Council and repealing Commission Regulations  (EC) No
669/2009 ,  (EU) No 884/2014 ,  (EU) 2015/175 ,  (EU) 2017/186  and  (EU)
2018/1660  (“Regulation (EU) 2019/1793”) in relation to England.

  Regulation 2 replaces the tables in Annexes 1, 2 and 2a of Regulation (EU)
2019/1793.

  In the first table in Annex I to Regulation (EU) 2019/1793, the following
entries have been amended in respect of the frequency of identity and physical
checks:         increase from 20% to 50% for black pepper from Brazil for
Salmonella ;           decrease from 50% to 20% for hazelnuts and associated
products from Georgia for aflatoxins;           increase from 10% to 20% for
okra from India for pesticide residues;           increase from 20% to 50% for
jackfruit from Malaysia for pesticide residues;           increase from 10% to
20% for peppers of the Capsicum species (other than sweet) from Thailand for
pesticide residues;           increase from 5% to 20% for mandarins (including
tangerines and satsumas), clementine, wilkings and similar citrus hybrids from
Turkey for pesticide residues;           increase from 10% to 20% for oranges
from Turkey for pesticide residues;           increase from 10% to 20% sweet
peppers (capsicum annuum) from Turkey for pesticides residues;
increase from 20% to 50% for peppers of the Capsicum species (other than
sweet) from Uganda for pesticide residues.

  The following entries have been inserted into Annex 1 to Regulation (EU)
2019/1793:         groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from Brazil in
respect of pesticide residues;           food containing or consisting of
betel leaves from Thailand;           lemons from Turkey;           peppers of
the Capsicum species (other than sweet) from Turkey.

  The following entries have been transferred from the first table in Annex 2
to Regulation (EU) 2019/1793 to the table in Annex 1 with no change in the
frequency of identity and physical checks:         groundnuts (peanuts) and
associated products from Brazil;           hazelnuts and associated products
from Turkey.

  The entry for groundnuts and associated products from China for aflatoxins
has been transferred from the first table in Annex 1 to Regulation (EU)
2019/1793 to the table in Annex 1. The frequency of physical and identity
checks has been decreased from 20% to 10%.

  The following entries have been omitted from the table in Annex 1 to
Regulation (EU) 2019/1793:         goji berries from China for pesticides
residues;           dried grapes (including dried grapes cut or crushed into a
paste without further treatment) from Turkey for Ochratoxin A;
pistachios and associated products from the United States for aflatoxins.

  The following entries have been transferred from Annex 1 to Regulation (EU)
2019/1793 to the first table in Annex 2 with no change in the frequency of
identity and physical checks:           sesamum seeds  from Ethiopia.
peppers of the Capsicum species (sweet or other than sweet) from Sri Lanka.

  The following entries in the first table in Annex 2 to Regulation (EU)
2019/1793 have been amended in respect of identity and physical checks:
increase from 10% to 50% for groundnuts (peanuts) and associated products from
India for aflatoxins;           increase from 20% to 50% for   sesamum seeds
from Sudan for  Salmonella ;           increase from 20% to 50% for vine
leaves from Turkey for pesticides residues.

  The entry for food containing or consisting of betel leaves (Piper betle)
from Bangladesh has been transferred from the table in Annex 2a to Regulation
(EU) 2019/1793 to the first table in Annex 2.

  An entry for  sesamum seeds  from Uganda has been included in the first
table in Annex 2 to Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.

  The entry for mixtures of spices has been included in the second table in
Annex 2 to Regulation (EU) 2019/1793.

  The TARIC sub-division for betel leaves (Piper betle) from Bangladesh, India
and Thailand has been removed.

  The TARIC sub-division for Guar Gum from India has been removed to reflect
changes made by HMRC.

  An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant impact on the public, private or voluntary sector is foreseen. An
explanatory memorandum has been published alongside this instrument at
www.legislation.gov.uk .

