Title: The M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to alter junction 10 of the M25/A3 Wisley interchange, the M25 and the A3 near Wisley in Surrey and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/549

## The M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   12th May 2022

  Coming into force   2nd June 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State, under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by a Panel of two members (“the Panel”) (appointed by
the Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008
Act, and the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .
The Panel, having considered the representations made and not withdrawn and
the application together with the accompanying documents, in accordance with
section 83 of the 2008 Act, has submitted a report and recommendation to the
Secretary of State.     The Secretary of State, having considered the
representations made and not withdrawn, and the report of the Panel, has
decided to make an Order granting development consent for the development
described in the application with modifications which in the opinion of the
Secretary of State do not make any substantial changes to the proposals
comprised in the application.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that
replacement land (as that term is defined in section 131(12) of the 2008 Act)
has been or will be given in exchange for the special category land
(identified in Part 1 of Schedule 10 to this Order), and replacement land has
been or will be vested in the person or persons in whom the special category
land is vested and subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as attach
to the special category land, and that, accordingly, section 131(4) of the
2008 Act applies.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that replacement
land (as that term is defined in section 132(12) of the 2008 Act) has been or
will be given in exchange for the order rights (as defined in that section) to
be acquired over the special category (rights) land (identified in Part 2 of
Schedule 10 to this Order), and replacement land has been or will be vested in
the person or persons in whom the special category (rights) land is vested and
subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as attach to that land
(ignoring this Order), and that, accordingly, section 132(4) of the 2008 Act
applies.     The Secretary of State is satisfied that the special category
(rights) land (as identified in Part 3 of Schedule 10 to this Order), when
burdened with any new rights authorised to be compulsorily acquired under this
Order, will be no less advantageous than it was before to the persons in whom
it is vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other
rights, and the public, and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the 2008 Act
applies.         The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred
by sections 114 , 115 , 117 , 120  and 122  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to
15, 17, 19 to 23, 26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 of Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act,
makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange
Development Consent Order 2022 and comes into force on 2nd June 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ; “ the 1965 Act ” means
the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ; “ the 1980 Act ” means the Highways Act
1980 ; “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 ; “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ; “ the
1990 Act ” means the Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ; “ the 1991 Act ”
means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ; “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ; “ address ” includes any number or address for the
purposes of electronic transmission; “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in
Part 3 of the 1991 Act; “ authorised development ” means the development
described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development
authorised by this Order, which is development within the meaning of section
32 (meaning of development) of the 2008 Act; “ the book of reference ” means
the book of reference listed in Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.) as the book of reference for the purposes of this Order; “
bridleway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provision as to
interpretation) of the 1980 Act; “ building ” includes any structure or
erection or any part of a building, structure or erection; “ carriageway ” has
the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act; “ cycle track ” has the
same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act ; “ cycleway ” means a way
constituting or comprised in a highway, being a way over which the public have
the following, but no other rights of way, that is to say a right of way on
pedal cycles (other than pedal cycles that are motor vehicles within the
meaning of the Road Traffic Act 1988 ) with a right of way on foot and a right
of way on horseback or leading a horse; “ electronic transmission ” means a
communication transmitted— by means of an electronic communications network;
or by other means but while in electronic form, and in this definition “
electronic communications network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1)
(meaning of electronic communications networks and   services)   of the
Communications Act 2003 ; “ the engineering drawings and sections ” means the
drawings and sections listed in Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and
certified as the engineering drawings and sections by the Secretary of State
under article 45 (certification of documents, etc.) for the purposes of this
Order; “ environmental statement ” means the document of that description
listed in Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and certified as the
environmental statement by the Secretary of State under article 45
(certification of documents, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “ footway ”
and “ footpath ” have the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act; “
highway ”, “ highway authority ” and “ local highway authority ” have the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act; “ the land plans ” means the plans of that
description listed in Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and certified as
the land plans by the Secretary of State under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.) for the purposes of this Order; “ limits of deviation ” means
the limits of deviation referred to in article 7 (limits of deviation); “
maintain ” in relation to any part of the authorised development includes to
inspect, repair, adjust, landscape, preserve, remove, reconstruct, refurbish
or replace, provided such works do not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects to those identified in the
environmental statement, and any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed
accordingly; “ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is
within the limits of land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily
and described in the book of reference; “ the Order limits ” means the limits
of lands to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily shown on the land
plans and works plans within which the authorised development may be carried
out; “ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7
(interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ; “ the permit scheme ”
means the Traffic Management (Surrey County Council) Permit Scheme Order 2015
(as varied) made under Part 3 (permit schemes) of the Traffic Management Act
2004  as in force at the date on which this Order is made; “ relevant planning
authority ” means, in relation to any provision of this Order, either
Guildford Borough Council or Elmbridge Borough Council in their capacity as
local planning authorities insofar as the matter in question falls within
their respective administrative areas, or both, as the case may be; “ the
special category land plans ” means the plans of that description listed in
Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State under article 45 (certification of documents, etc.) as the special
category land plans for the purposes of this Order; “ the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans ” means the plans of that description listed in
Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State under article 45 (certification of documents, etc.) as the speed limits
and traffic   regulations   plans for the purposes of this Order; “ special
road ” means a highway which is a special road in accordance with section 16
(general provisions as to special roads) of the 1980 Act or by virtue of an
order granting development consent; “ statutory undertaker ” means any
statutory undertaker for the purposes of section 127(8) (statutory
undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act; “ street ” means a street within the
meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and undertakers) of the 1991
Act, together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways,
and includes part of a street; “ street authority ”, in relation to a street,
has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the
1991 Act; “ streets, rights of way and access plans ” means the plans of that
description listed in Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) and certified as
the streets, rights of way and access plans by the Secretary of State under
article 45 (certification of documents, etc.) for the purposes of this Order;
“ traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic
authorities) of the 1984 Act; “ trunk road ” means a highway which is a trunk
road by virtue of— section 10  (general provision as to trunk roads) or 19(1)
(certain special roads and other highways to become trunk roads) of the 1980
Act; an order or direction under section 10 of that Act; an order granting
development consent; or any other enactment; “ undertaker ” means National
Highways Limited, company number 09346363, whose registered office is at
Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ; “ watercourse ”
includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts, culverts, dykes,
sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except a public sewer
or drain; and “ the works plans ” means the plans listed in Schedule 11
(documents to be certified) and certified as the works plans by the Secretary
of State under article 45 (Certification of documents, etc.) for the purposes
of this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the streets,
rights of way and access plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to works as numbered
in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

3.1

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation required for the purpose of, or in
connection with, the construction of the authorised development—

3.1.a

regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016  in relation to the carrying
on of a flood risk activity;

3.1.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraph 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw making powers of the appropriate
agency) to the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

3.1.c

section 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ;

3.1.d

section 32  (variation of awards) of the Land Drainage Act 1991;

3.1.e

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66  (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991; and

3.1.f

section 28E (duties in relation to sites of special scientific interest) of
the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 .

3.2

In paragraph (1)(a) “ flood risk activity ” has the meaning given in the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016.

3.3

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017 , insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 32 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and 33 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order, do not apply in
relation to the construction of any work or the carrying out of any operation
required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction of the
authorised development and, within the maintenance period defined in article
33(11), any maintenance of any part of the authorised development.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

4

4.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out within the Order limits.

4.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

5

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

6

6.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or
otherwise, unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
person responsible.

6.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

#### Limits of deviation

7

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker may—

7.a

deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the authorised development
shown on the works plans to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on
those plans; and

7.b

deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the
engineering drawings and sections to a maximum of 0.50 metres upwards or 0.50
metres downwards,

except that these maximum limits of vertical deviation do not apply where it
is demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction,
and the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the local highway authority, certifies accordingly that a
deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially new
or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

8

8.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order),
the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have effect
solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

8.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the works for which consent is granted by this
Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the undertaker may—

9.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee; or

9.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

9.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph (3), includes references
to the transferee or the lessee.

9.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph (1) is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

9.4

If the benefit of the provisions of this Order relating to compulsory
acquisition is transferred or granted to a transferee or lessee pursuant to
this article and the transferee or lessee exercises those powers then the
undertaker alone is liable for any compensation that is payable to another
party as a consequence of the exercise of those powers by the transferee or
lessee.

9.5

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or grant
under this article, except where the transfer or grant is made to—

9.5.za

South Eastern Power Networks plc (company number 03043097, whose registered
office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London, SE1 6NP) for
the purposes of undertaking Work No. 62(a) to (q);

9.5.a

Southern Gas Networks PLC (company number 5167021, whose registered office is
at St Lawrence House, Station Approach, Horley, Surrey, RH6 9HJ) for the
purposes of undertaking Work No. 63(a) to 63(e);

9.5.b

Affinity Water Limited (company number 2546950, whose registered office is at
Tamblin Way, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9EZ) for the purposes of
undertaking Work No. 64(a) to 64(k);

9.5.c

British Telecommunications PLC (company number 1800000, whose registered
office is at 81 Newgate Street, London, EC1A 7AJ) ) for the purposes of
undertaking Work No. 65(a) to 65(f);

9.5.d

Sky Telecommunications Services Limited (company number 2883980, whose
registered office is at Grant Way, Isleworth, Middlesex, TW7 5QD) for the
purposes of undertaking Work No. 65(g); or

9.5.e

Virgin Media Limited (company number 2591237, whose registered office is at
500 Brook Drive, Reading, RG2 6UU) for the purposes of undertaking Work No.
65(g) and 65(h).

#### Planning permission

10

If planning permission is issued pursuant to the 1990 Act for development any
part of which is within the Order limits following the publication of this
Order that is—

10.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

10.b

required to complete or enable the construction, use or operation of any part
of the development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development pursuant to the
terms of the planning permission is not to constitute a breach of the terms of
this Order.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the highway authority, might
have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64  (dual
carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184  (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act, in relation to works which are major highway works
by virtue of paragraph (1), references to the highway authority concerned are
to be construed as references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act (whether modified or not by the
permit scheme) do not apply in relation to any works executed under the powers
of this Order—

    section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);
section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);
section 58  (restrictions on works following substantial road works);
section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works);
section 73A  (power to require undertaker to re-surface street);
section 73B  (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing);         section
73C  (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing);         section
78A  (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker); and
Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or approved
under, those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in relation
to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a temporary nature
by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 14 (temporary closure
and restriction of use of streets), whether or not the stopping up, alteration
or diversion constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (4) are—

    section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 57  (notice of emergency works);         section 59  (general duty of
street authority to co-ordinate works);         section 60 (general duty of
undertakers to co-operate);         section 68 (facilities to be afforded to
street authority);         section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus
in the street);         section 75 (inspection fees);         section 76
(liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and         section 77
(liability for cost of use of alternative route),

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article 12 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act, and the undertaker is not by reason of any duty under that
article to maintain a street, to be taken to be the street authority in
relation to that street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.b

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respects which the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act apply.

11.8

Subject to paragraph (3), the permit scheme applies to the construction and
maintenance of the authorised development and will be used by the undertaker
in connection with the exercise of any powers conferred by this Part.

11.9

For the purposes of this Order a permit may not be granted under the permit
scheme subject to conditions where compliance with those conditions would
constitute a breach of this Order or where the undertaker would be unable to
comply with those conditions pursuant to the powers conferred by this Order.

11.10

Any difference arising between the undertaker and Surrey County Council under
the permit scheme will be referred to the appeals procedure under section 7.2
of the permit scheme.

11.11

Where agreement cannot be reached under sub-paragraph (10) the undertaker and
Surrey County Council may refer the dispute to independent adjudication under
section 7.3 of the permit scheme or where this is not agreed, the dispute will
be resolved by arbitration under article 48 (arbitration).

11.12

Any order which may be made by the Secretary of State under section 74A(2)  of
the 1991 Act designating Surrey County Council as an approved authority for
the purposes of the Street Works (Charges for Occupation of the Highway)
(England) Regulations 2012  will not have effect in relation to works carried
out by the undertaker as part of the construction or maintenance of the
authorised development.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road or special road) to be constructed under
this Order must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local
highway authority in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed
in writing between the undertaker and the local highway authority, the highway
including any structures or culverts laid under it must be maintained by and
at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road or special road) is altered or
diverted under this Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must,
when completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority
in whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and the local highway authority, be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.3

Where a street which is not, and is not intended to be, a highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing, be maintained by
and at the expense of the undertaker for a period of 12 months from its
completion and at the expiry of that period by and at the expense of the
street authority.

12.4

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road or special road) over a trunk road or special road, the
highway surface (being those elements over the waterproofing membrane and
indicator layer) must be maintained by and at the expense of the local highway
authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the
local highway authority, and the remainder of the bridge, including the
waterproofing membrane, indicator layer and structure below, must be
maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker.

12.5

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

12.6

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (5), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.6.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

12.6.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

12.6.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

12.6.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

12.6.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and that the
competent person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

13

13.1

The roads described in Part 1 (special roads) of Schedule 3 (classification of
roads, etc.) will be—

13.1.a

classified as special roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument
which refers to highways classified as special roads; and

13.1.b

provided for the use of traffic of Classes I and II of the classes of traffic
set out in Schedule 4 (classes of traffic for purposes of special roads) to
the 1980 Act.

13.2

From the date on which the undertaker notifies the Secretary of State that the
roads described in Part 1 of Schedule 3 have been completed and open for
traffic—

13.2.a

the undertaker will be the highway authority for those roads; and

13.2.b

they are classified as trunk roads for the purpose of any enactment or
instrument which refers to highways classified as trunk roads.

13.3

On or after the date on which the roads described in Part 2 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 are completed and open for traffic, they are to be trunk roads as
if they had become so by virtue of an order under section 10(2) (general
provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980 Act specifying that date as the date
on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.4

On or after the date on which the roads described in Part 3 (classified roads)
of Schedule 3 are completed and open for traffic they are to become—

13.4.a

principal roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to
highways classified as principal roads; and

13.4.b

classified roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers
to highways classified as classified roads,

as if such classification had been made under section 12(3) (general provision
as to principal and classified roads) of the 1980 Act.

13.5

On or after the date on which the roads described in Part 4 (unclassified
roads) of Schedule 3 are complete and open for traffic, they are to become
unclassified roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers
to unclassified roads.

13.6

The public rights of way described in Part 8 (other public rights of way) of
Schedule 3 are to be of the types described in column (1) to the extent
described in column (2) are open for use on or after the date on which the
authorised development is open for traffic.

13.7

On or after the date on which the roads specified in Part 5 (speed limits) of
Schedule 3 are open for traffic, no person is to drive any motor vehicle at a
speed exceeding the limit in miles per hour specified in column (3) of that
Part in respect of the lengths of road identified in the corresponding row of
column (2) of that Part.

13.8

Subject to article 17 (clearways), on and after the date on which the roads
specified in Part 6 (traffic regulation measures (clearways and prohibitions))
of Schedule 3 are open for traffic, the restrictions specified in column (3)
of that Part are to apply to the lengths of the road identified in the
corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.9

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the orders specified in column
(2) of Part 7 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation
measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 are to be varied or
revoked as specified in the corresponding row of column (3) of that Part in
respect the lengths of roads specified in the corresponding row of column (1)
of that Part.

13.10

The application of paragraphs (1) to (8) may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

#### Temporary closure and restriction of use of streets

14

14.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily close, alter, divert or restrict the use of any
street and may for any reasonable time—

14.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

14.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

14.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any
street temporarily closed or restricted under the powers conferred by this
article, and which is within the Order limits, as a temporary working site.

14.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary closure, alteration or
diversion of a street under this article if there would otherwise be no such
access.

14.4

The undertaker must not temporarily close, alter or divert any street for
which it is not the street authority without the consent of the street
authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent but such
consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

14.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

14.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

15

15.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access specified in column (1) of Parts 1, 2, 3,
and 4 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private means of
access and provision of new highways and private means of access) to the
extent specified and described in column (2) of those Parts of that Schedule.

15.2

No street or private means of access specified in column (1) of Parts 1 and 3
of Schedule 4 is to be wholly or partly stopped up under this article unless—

15.2.a

the new street or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

15.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the street or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new street or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a).

15.3

No street or private means of access specified in column (1) of Part 4 of
Schedule 4 is to be wholly or partly stopped up under this article unless the
condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in relation to all the land
which abuts on either side of the street or private means of access to be
stopped up.

15.4

The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that—

15.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land; or

15.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned; or

15.4.c

there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

15.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

15.5

The private means of access specified in column (1) of Part 5 of Schedule 4
are to be altered to the extent specified in the corresponding row of column
(2) of that Part.

15.6

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

15.6.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

15.6.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

15.7

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

15.8

This article is subject to article 36 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

16

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

17

17.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), from the date on which the roads
described in column (2) of Part 6 (traffic regulation measures (clearways and
prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads, etc.) and identified in
the corresponding row of column (3) of that Part as to become a clearway, are
open to traffic, no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any
part of the lengths of road, except upon the direction of,   or with the
permission of , a uniformed constable or uniformed traffic officer.

17.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) applies—

17.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

17.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

17.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

17.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, maintenance or renewal in or near the road of any sewer,
main pipe, conduit, wire, cable or other apparatus for the supply of gas,
water, electricity or any electronic communications apparatus as defined in
Schedule 3A (the electronic communications code) to the Communications Act
2003 ; or

17.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

17.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

17.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

17.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

17.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

17.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Service Act 2000 ; or

17.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

17.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

17.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

17.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

17.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

17.4

Paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

17.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the Traffic Management Act 2004
.

#### Traffic regulation

18

18.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

18.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

18.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

18.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

18.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

18.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

18.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

18.3

The power conferred by paragraph (2) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for public
use but subject to paragraph (7) any prohibition, restriction or other
provision made under paragraph (2) may have effect both before and after the
expiry of that period.

18.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (5).

18.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (2) unless
it has—

18.5.a

given not less than—

18.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

18.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

18.5.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of the receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of the receipt
of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(ii).

18.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (2)—

18.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

18.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

18.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32  (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

18.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

18.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers of paragraph (2) within a period of 24 months from the
opening of the authorised development.

18.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (2), the undertaker must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

18.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act shall have the same
meaning in this article as in that Act.

18.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

18.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (2) the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

19

19.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out or maintenance of the authorised development and for that purpose
may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order
limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse, public
sewer or drain.

19.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

19.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

19.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

19.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

19.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

19.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain pursuant
to this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other
solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

19.6

Subject to paragraph 1(a) of article 3 (disapplication of legislative
provisions) nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an
environmental permit under regulation 12(1)(b) (requirement for environmental
permit) of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

19.7

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4)(a) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application that person will be deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

19.8

In this article—

19.8.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to the Homes
and Communities Agency (known as Homes England), the Environment Agency, an
internal drainage board, a joint planning board, a local authority, a sewerage
undertaker or an urban development corporation; and

19.8.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

20

20.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

20.2

Protective works may be carried out—

20.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

20.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

20.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

20.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

20.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

20.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

20.5

Before exercising—

20.5.a

a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

20.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

20.5.c

a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

20.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

20.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 48 (arbitration).

20.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

20.8

Where—

20.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

20.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

20.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

20.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the entry onto land under this article to the same extent as it
applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of
section 125 (compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act.

20.11

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of
questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

20.12

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

20.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

20.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

21

21.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

21.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

21.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such
positions on the land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature
of the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

21.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land; and

21.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

21.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

21.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

21.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

21.3.b

may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

21.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

21.4.a

in land located within a highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

21.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

21.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

21.6

If either a highway authority or street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

21.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

21.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority will be deemed to have granted consent.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION OF LAND

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

22

22.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it or is required as replacement land.

22.2

This article is subject to paragraph (2) of article 25 (compulsory acquisition
of rights and restrictive covenants) and article 32 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

23

Part 2 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981  is
incorporated in this Order subject to the modification that for “the acquiring
authority” substitute  “the undertaker” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

24

24.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

24.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 28 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

24.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 29 (application of the 1981 Act).

24.2

The authority conferred by article 32 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) to take temporary possession of land ceases at the
end of the period referred to in paragraph (1), except that nothing in this
paragraph prevents the undertaker remaining in possession of land after the
end of that period (subject to article 32(3)), if the land was entered and
possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants

25

25.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (5), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land,
including rights and restrictive covenants for the benefit of a statutory
undertaker or any other person, as may be required for any purpose for which
that land may be acquired under article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) by
creating them as well as acquiring rights already in existence.

25.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants,
as may be required for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

25.3

The power to impose restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is exercisable
only in respect of plots specified in column (1) of Schedule 5.

25.4

The power conferred by paragraph (1) to acquire the rights and to impose the
restrictive covenants described in Schedule 5 for the benefit of statutory
undertakers or for the benefit of any other person—

25.4.a

does not preclude the acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of
such other restrictive covenants in respect of the same land in accordance
with Schedule 5 as may be required for the benefit of any other statutory
undertaker or any other person; and

25.4.b

must not be exercised by the undertaker in a way that precludes the
acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of such other restrictive
covenants in respect of the same land in accordance with Schedule 5 as are
required for the benefit of any other statutory undertaker or any other
person.

25.5

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) of the 1965 Act, as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of Schedule
6 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for
creation of new rights), where the undertaker acquires a right over land or
the benefit of a restrictive covenant affecting land under paragraph (1) or
(2), the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that
land.

25.6

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Extinguishment of public rights of way

26

26.1

The public rights of way identified in column (1) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule
4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private means of access and provision
of new highways and private means of access) and shown on the streets, rights
of way and access plans are to be extinguished on the date of the expiry of
the notice given under paragraph (2).

26.2

Prior to the extinguishment of each of the public rights of way identified in
column (1) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and shown on the streets, rights of
way and access plans, the undertaker must erect a site notice at each end of
the rights of way to be extinguished no less than 28 days prior to the
extinguishment of that right of way.

26.3

The notice to be erected under paragraph (2) must include—

26.3.a

details of the public rights of way to be extinguished;

26.3.b

the date on which the extinguishment will take effect;

26.3.c

details of any public rights of way being provided in substitution; and

26.3.d

details of the places where a copy of this Order and the documents listed in
Schedule 11 (documents to be certified) may be inspected.

#### Private rights over land

27

27.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

27.1.a

from the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

27.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)  (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

27.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of the rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or the burden
of the restrictive covenant—

27.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement;
or

27.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

27.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker that are within the Order limits are extinguished on
commencement of any activity authorised by this Order which interferes with or
breaches those rights.

27.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

27.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

27.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 35 (statutory undertakers) applies.

27.7

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

27.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

27.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the right
or the imposition of the restrictive covenant over or affecting the land;

27.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

27.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

27.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

27.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

27.8

If any such agreement as is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

27.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

27.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

27.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

28

28.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125  (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act is modified as follows.

28.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to the High Court in respect
of compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118  (legal challenges relating to applications for
orders granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year
period mentioned in article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange
Development Consent Order 2022.

28.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

28.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

28.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

28.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 24 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley
Interchange Development Consent Order 2022” .

28.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

28.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

28.5.a.2

But see article 31(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the M25
Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022, which
excludes the acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

; and

28.5.b

after paragraph 29, insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

28.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under articles 20 (protective work to buildings), 32
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 33
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the M25
Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

29

29.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

29.2

The 1981 Act, as so applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

29.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection (2) substitute—

29.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

29.4

In section 5  (earliest date for execution of declaration), in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

29.5

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

29.6

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008 the five year period
mentioned in article 24 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent
Order 2022” .

29.7

In section 6  (notices after execution of declaration) in subsection (1)(b)
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 134  (notice of authorisation of compulsory
acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

29.8

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat) in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

29.9

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), omit paragraph 1(2).

29.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 28
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

30

30.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or of the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1) of
article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any purpose
for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring
the whole of the land.

30.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over land referred to in paragraph (1), the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

30.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

30.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 28 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

30.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

30.3.c

section 153(4A)  (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

30.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

31

31.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

31.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

31.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

31.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

31.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

31.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, will be entitled to
compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute
under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

31.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing cost of necessary measures)
of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the allowable costs
are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

32

32.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 24(2) (time limit for the exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily)—

32.1.a

enter on and take temporary possession of—

32.1.a.i

the land specified in column (1) of Schedule 7 (land of which temporary
possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule relating to the part of the authorised development
specified in column (3) of that Schedule; and

32.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act;

32.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land;

32.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

32.1.d

construct any works on that land as are mentioned in Schedule 1 (authorised
development).

32.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

32.3

Notwithstanding article 24(2), the undertaker may not, without the agreement
of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under this
article—

32.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (3) of
Schedule 7; or

32.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

32.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

32.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

32.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

32.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development; or

32.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development.

32.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

32.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

32.7

Any dispute as to the satisfactory removal of temporary works and restoration
of land under paragraph (4) does not prevent the undertaker giving up
possession of the land.

32.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

32.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

32.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

33

33.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

33.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development; and

33.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

33.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

33.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

33.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

33.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

33.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

33.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

33.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

33.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

33.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

33.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

33.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to the acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

33.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use, save
that in relation to the replacement land identified in Part 4 of Schedule 10
(replacement land), “ the maintenance period ” means such period for the
maintenance and management of that land as may be specified in a scheme
approved by the Secretary of State under requirement 7 of Schedule 2 (design,
layout and implementation of Replacement Land).

#### Crown Rights

34

34.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and, in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to take, use, enter on or in any other
manner interfere with any land or rights of any description including any part
of any river, channel or creek—

34.1.a

belonging  to   Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of the
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

34.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of the
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

34.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

34.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise  of   any right under this Order
for the   compulsory   acquisition of an interest in any Crown land (as
defined in section 227 of the 2008 Act) which is for the time being held
otherwise than by or on behalf of the Crown.

34.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions, and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Statutory undertakers

35

35.1

Subject to the provisions of Schedule 9 (protective provisions), article 25
(compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants) and paragraph
(2), the undertaker may—

35.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

35.1.b

extinguish the rights of, and remove or reposition apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

35.2

Paragraph (1)(b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

35.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

35.2.b

article 36 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

36

36.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

36.2

Where a street is stopped up under article 15 any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

36.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as  the  statutory  utility may reasonably
determine and have power to place it; or

36.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

36.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

36.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

36.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

36.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

36.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

36.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

36.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

36.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

36.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

36.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

36.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

36.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

36.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

36.8

In this article—

“ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and “ statutory utility ” means a statutory undertaker for the
purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications provider as defined in
section 151(1) of the Communications Act 2003 .

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

37

37.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 35 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

37.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under article 35, any person who is—

37.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

37.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

37.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 36
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

37.4

In this paragraph—

    “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the Communications Act 2003; and         “ public utility undertaker
” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

#### Special category land

38

38.1

On the exercise by the undertaker of the relevant Order powers, the special
category land identified in Part 1 of Schedule 10 is not to vest in the
undertaker, and the undertaker may not acquire any rights over the special
category (rights) land identified in Part 2 of Schedule 10, until the
undertaker has acquired the replacement land identified in Part 4 of Schedule
10 and the Secretary of State has approved the details required by requirement
7 (design, layout and implementation of Replacement Land) of Schedule 2
(requirements).

38.2

On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the special category
land identified in Part 1 of Schedule 10 is to vest in the undertaker and be
discharged from all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously
subject.

38.3

On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the undertaker may
acquire the rights over the special category (rights) land identified in Part
2 of Schedule 10 and the said land is to be discharged from all rights, trusts
and incidents to which it was previously subject so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the said rights to be acquired.

38.4

On the requirements of paragraph (1) being satisfied, the land numbered 2/13
(being common land of which temporary possession may be taken under this
Order) in the book of reference and on the land plans will be discharged from
all rights, trusts and incidents to which it was previously subject.

38.5

On the date on which the land comprising plots numbered in the book of
reference and on the land plans 11/16, 11/17, 11/17b, 11/17c (in so far as not
required for the purpose of paragraph (7)) 11/17d, 11/17e, 11/17f, 11/17g,
11/17h, 11/17i and 11/17j is laid out and provided in accordance with the
requirements at paragraph (1), the said land is to vest in the persons in whom
the special category land identified in Part 1 and Part 2 of Schedule 10 (save
for the land comprised in plots numbered 11/3a, 11/4a, 11/8 and 11/8a in the
book of reference and on the land plans) was vested immediately before it was
vested in the undertaker and is to be subject to the same rights, trusts and
incidents as attached to that land.

38.6

On the date on which the land comprising   plots   numbered 27/1 and 11/17a in
the book of reference and on the land plans is laid out and provided in
accordance with the scheme requirements at paragraph (1), the said land is to
vest in the persons in whom the land comprised in plots numbered 11/3a and
11/4a in the book of reference and on the land plans was vested immediately
before it was vested in the undertaker and is to be subject to the same
rights, trusts and incidents as attached to that land.

38.7

On the date on which the land comprising so much of plot numbered 11/17c in
the book of reference as is required for the purpose of providing replacement
land to the persons in whom those parts of the special category land comprised
in plots numbered 11/8, 11/8a and 28/2 in the book of reference and on the
land plans was vested immediately before it was vested in the undertaker is
laid out and provided in accordance with the scheme requirements at paragraph
(1), the said land is to vest in the persons described in this paragraph and
is to be subject to the same rights, trusts and incidents as attached to that
land.

38.8

In this article “ the relevant Order powers ” means the powers exercisable
over the special category land or the special category (rights) land by the
undertaker under article 22 (compulsory acquisition of land) or article 25
(compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants).

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub within or overhanging land
within the Order limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it
to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker must
do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

39.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2), remove any hedgerow within the Order
limits that is required to be removed.

39.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” includes a hedgerow to which the Hedgerow
Regulations 1997  apply and includes important hedgerows.

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

40

40.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree described in Schedule 8 (trees subject
to tree preservation orders) or cut back its roots or undertake such other
works described in column (2) of that Schedule relating to the relevant part
of the authorised development described in column (3) of that Schedule, if it
reasonably believes it to be necessary in order to do so to prevent the tree
or shrub—

40.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

40.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

40.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

40.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;
and

40.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act is
not to apply.

40.3

The authority given by paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

40.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, shall be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

41

41.1

This article applies to—

41.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

41.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

41.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

41.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

41.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

41.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

41.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

42

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3) (cases in which land is
to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

43

43.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2)  of that Act if—

43.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction site), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction site) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 ;
or

43.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

43.2

Section 61(9)  (consent for work on construction site to include statement
that it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section
82 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act
1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Protection of interests

44

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

45

45.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 11
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification that
they are true copies of those plans and documents.

45.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 11 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph (1).

45.3

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

46

46.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

46.1.a

by post;

46.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

46.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

46.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

46.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

46.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

46.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

46.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

46.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

46.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

46.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement will be taken to be fulfilled only where—

46.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

46.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

46.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

46.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

46.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender will provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

46.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

46.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

46.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

46.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

46.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

46.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Application of local legislation

47

47.1

The following local enactments and local byelaws, and any byelaws or other
provisions made under any of those enactments or byelaws do not apply where
inconsistent with a provision or a power conferred by this Order—

47.1.a

Cobham, Leatherhead and Godalming Bridges Act 1782  sections 1 and 6;

47.1.b

Cobham Gas Act 1899  section 29;

47.1.c

Electric Lighting Orders Confirmation (No.1) Act 1908  sections 4 and 5;

47.1.d

Borough of Guildford Byelaws with respect to Loading of Vehicles and Deposit
of Mud on Highways 1968, byelaws 2 and 3; and

47.1.e

Surrey Act 1985  sections 5(1) and 5(2).

47.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1) a provision is inconsistent with the exercise
of a power conferred by this Order to the extent that—

47.2.a

it would make it an offence to take action, or not to take action, in
pursuance of the power;

47.2.b

action taken in pursuance of the power would cause the provision to apply so
as to enable a person to require the taking of remedial or other action or so
as to enable remedial or other action to be taken; or

47.2.c

action taken in pursuance of a power or duty under the provision would or
might interfere with the exercise of any work authorised by this Order.

47.3

Where any person notifies the undertaker in writing that anything done or
proposed to be done by the undertaker or by virtue of this Order would amount
to a contravention of a statutory provision of local application, the
undertaker must as soon as reasonably practicable, and in any event within 14
days of receipt of the notice, respond in writing setting out—

47.3.a

whether the undertaker agrees that the action taken or proposed does or would
contravene the provision of local application;

47.3.b

if the undertaker does agree, the grounds (if any) on which the undertaker
believes that the provision is excluded by this article; and

47.3.c

the extent of that exclusion.

#### Arbitration

48

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the Lands
Chamber of the Upper Tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single
arbitrator to be agreed between the parties or, failing agreement, to be
appointed on the application of either party (after giving notice in writing
to the other) by the President of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Natasha
Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department for
Transport

## SCHEDULES

AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

In the administrative areas of Surrey County Council, Elmbridge Borough
Council and Guildford Borough Council.

The Works are situated as follows— a in respect of the whole of each and every
Work No. in the administrative area of Surrey County Council; b in respect of
the whole of Work Nos. 1, 1(a), 1(b), 1(c), 1(d), 1(e), 2, 3, 4, 5, 5(a),
5(b), 5(c), 5(d), 5(e), 6, 6(a), 6(b),6(c), 7, 7(a), 7(b), 7(c), 8, 9, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23(a), 23(b), 23(c), 23(d), 23(e), 23(f), 23(g),
24(c), 25, 25(a), 27(b), 27(d), 29, 30(a), 30(b), 30(c), 30(d), 31, 31(a),
31(b), 31(c), 31(d), 31(e), 31(f), 31(g), 31(h), 32, 33, 33(a), 33(b), 33(c),
33(d), 33(e), 33(f), 33(g), 33(h), 33(i),34, 35(a), 35(b), 35(c),35(d), 36,
38, 49, 50(a), 50(b), 51(a), 52(a), 52(b), 52(c), 52(d), 52(e), 52(f), 52(g),
52(h), 52(i), 52(m), 53(a), 53(b), 53(c), 53(d), 53(e), 53(f), 54, 55, 56,
57(a), 57(b), 58(a), 58(b), 58(c), 58(e), 58(f), 58(g), 58(h), 59(a), 59(b),
59(c), 59(d), 59(e), 60, 61(a), 61(b), 62(a), 62(b), 62(c), 62(d), 62(e),
62(f), 62(g), 63(a), 63(e), 63(f), 64(a), 64(b), 64(c), 65(b), 65(c), 65(d)
and part of Work Nos. 15, 15(a), 15(b), 17, 17(a), 17(b), 24, 24(a), 24(b),
26, 27, 27(a), 27(c), 28, 28(a), 35, 35(e), 35(f), 37, 39, 51, 53(g), 58(d),
59(f), 61(c), 61(d), 62(h), 63(b), 64(d), 65 and 65(a) in the administrative
area of Guildford Borough Council; and c in respect of the whole of Work Nos.
15(c), 15(d), 16, 17(c), 17(d), 17(e), 18, 18(a), 18(b), 23(h), 23(i), 23(j),
30(e), 30(f), 35(g), 35(h), 35(i), 35(j), 35(k), 40, 41,42(a), 42(b), 42(c),
42(d), 42(e), 43, 44(a), 44(b), 44(c), 44(d), 44(e), 44(f), 45, 46, 47(a),
47(b), 47(c), 47(d), 47(e), 47(f), 52(j), 52(k), 52(l), 62(i), 62(j), 62(k),
62(l), 62(m), 62(n), 62(o), 62(p), 62(q), 63(c), 63(d), 64(e), 64(f), 64(g),
64(h), 64(i), 64(j), 64(k), 65(e), 65(f), 65(g), 65(h) and part of Work Nos.
15, 15(a), 15(b), 17, 17(a), 17(b), 24, 24(a), 24(b), 26, 27, 27(a), 27(c),
28, 28(a), 35, 35(e), 35(f), 37, 39, 51, 53(g), 58(d), 59(f), 61(c), 61(d),
62(h), 63(b), 64(d), 65 and 65(a) in the administrative area of Elmbridge
Borough Council.

The authorised development comprises two nationally significant infrastructure
projects as defined in sections 14 and 22  of the 2008 Act; one relating to
the alteration of the M25 and the other to the alteration of the A3; and
associated development as defined in section 115(2) of the 2008 Act in
relation to both, comprising as follows—

Highway works - A3 (Ockham Park junction - M25 Junction 10)

Work No.1  — Improvement of the A3 northbound carriageway commencing 350
metres to the south of the A3 Ockham Park junction and continuing northwards
to the diverge for the A3 northbound off-slip at M25 junction 10, in total
2,755 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the works
plans. To include— a carriageway resurfacing and modifications to road
markings, lighting, signage, existing gantries and associated cabling and
ducting works, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the works plans; b a new
cycle track commencing in the verge of the A3 northbound carriageway to the
south of the A3 Ockham Park junction and connecting with the B2215 Portsmouth
Road, 65 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans; c widening
of the A3 northbound carriageway to four lanes between the A3 Ockham Park
junction and M25 junction 10, 1,810 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 2, 3
and 4 of the works plans; d works associated with the stopping up of the
junction between the A3 northbound carriageway and Wisley Lane, as shown on
Sheet 2 of the works plans and on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans; and e works to extend an existing culvert beneath the A3
northbound carriageway, as shown on Sheet 3 of the works plans.

Work No.2  —  Improvement and widening of the A3 northbound on-slip at the A3
Ockham Park junction, in total 650 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 1 and
2 of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting.

Work No.3  — Improvement, realignment and widening of the A3 northbound off-
slip at M25 junction 10, in total 315 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 4
and 5 of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting; and works associated with the stopping
up of the existing private access to Pond Farm, Hut Hill Cottage and the
Birchmere Scout Camp, as shown at point D on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.

Work No.4  — Alteration and widening of the A3 southbound on-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 870 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the
works plans. To include the improvement of the junction with Old Lane and
modifications to signage, carriageway surfacing, road markings and lighting.

Work No.5  — Improvement of the A3 southbound carriageway commencing 250
metres south of M25 junction 10 and continuing to a point 350 metres south of
the A3 Ockham Park junction, in total 2,755 metres in length, as shown on
Sheets 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the works plans. To include— a carriageway
resurfacing and modifications to road markings, lighting, signage and
associated cabling and ducting works, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of
the works plans; b widening of the A3 southbound carriageway to four lanes
between M25 junction 10 and the A3 Ockham Park junction, 1,310 metres in
length, as shown on Sheets 2, 3 and 4 of the works plans; c a new retaining
wall structure along the edge of Bolder Mere and associated marginal planting
measures, 230 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans;
d works to extend an existing culvert beneath the A3 southbound carriageway,
as shown on Sheet 3 of the works plans; and e works associated with the
stopping up of Elm Lane, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans and on Sheet 2
of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

Work No.6  — Improvement and widening of the A3 southbound off-slip at the A3
Ockham Park junction, in total 380 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 1 and
2 of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting; and— a works to strengthen the existing
culvert at Stratford Brook, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans; b a new
signal controlled non-motorised user crossing (toucan crossing), as shown at
point 1/c on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans; and c a
new footway in the verge of the A3 southbound off-slip, in total 75 metres in
length and the repositioning of an existing bus stop, as shown on Sheet 1 of
the works plans.

Highway works at M25 Junction 10

Work No.7  — Alteration of the M25 junction 10 roundabout, as shown on Sheet 5
of the works plans. To include— a alteration and widening of the M25 junction
10 circulatory carriageway and modifications to traffic signals, carriageway
surfacing, road markings, lighting, signage, cabling and ducting and
associated equipment, in total 725 metres in length; b two new single span M25
overbridges 44 metres in length, one on each side of the existing M25 junction
10 roundabout; and c demolition of two existing M25 overbridges and
remediation of redundant carriageway, footways/cycleways and works associated
with the stopping-up of Bridleway 12, including the removal of an existing
Pegasus crossing at the merge between the M25 junction 10 circulatory
carriageway and the A3 southbound off-slip.

Work No.8  — A new dedicated free-flow slip lane to connect the A3 northbound
off-slip directly with the M25 westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total
205 metres in length, to include new lighting and signage, as shown on Sheets
5 and 12 of the works plans.

Work No.9  — A new dedicated free-flow slip lane to connect the M25 eastbound
off-slip directly with the A3 northbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total
225 metres in length, to include new lighting and signage, as shown on Sheets
5 and 12 of the works plans.

Work No.10  — A new dedicated free-flow slip lane to connect the A3 southbound
off-slip directly with the M25 eastbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total
210 metres in length, to include new lighting and signage, as shown on Sheets
5 and 13 of the works plans.

Work No.11  — A new dedicated free-flow slip lane to connect the M25 westbound
off-slip directly with the A3 southbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total
250 metres in length, to include new lighting and signage, as shown on Sheets
5 and 13 of the works plans.

Work No.12  — Resurfacing of the A3 northbound carriageway where it crosses
over M25 junction 10, in total 690 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and
6 of the works plans.

Work No.13  — Resurfacing of the A3 southbound carriageway where it crosses
over M25 junction 10, in total 690 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and
6 of the works plans.

Highway works – A3 (M25 Junction 10 – A3 Painshill junction)

Work No.14  — Improvement, realignment and widening of the A3 northbound on-
slip at M25 junction 10, in total 465 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5
and 6 of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting and the removal of an existing Pegasus
crossing associated with the stopping up of Bridleway 12 as shown between
points 5/16 and 5/17 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.

Work No.15  — Improvement of the A3 northbound carriageway between M25
junction 10 and the A3 Painshill junction, in total 1,880 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans. To include— a carriageway
resurfacing and modifications to road markings, lighting, signage and
associated cabling and ducting works, as shown on Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the
works plans; b widening of the A3 northbound carriageway to four lanes between
M25 junction 10 and the A3 Painshill junction, 880 metres in length, as shown
on Sheets 6 and 7 of the works plans; c works associated with the stopping up
of the access to Long Orchard, No. 1 Farm Cottage, No. 3 Farm Cottage, Fir
Tree Cottage and The Coach House, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans and
as shown at point G on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way and access plans;
and d works associated with the stopping up of the existing access to the
Starbucks Drive Thru Café, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans and as shown
at point H on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

Work No.16  — Improvement and widening of the A3 northbound off-slip at the A3
Painshill junction, in total 685 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 7 and 8
of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting; and a new signal controlled non-
motorised user crossing (toucan crossing), as shown at point 8/a on Sheet 8 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.

Work No.17  — Improvement of the A3 southbound carriageway, commencing 225
metres north of the A3 Painshill junction and continuing southwards to the
diverge for the A3 southbound off-slip at M25 junction 10, in total 2,085
metres in length, as shown on Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans. To
include— a carriageway resurfacing and modifications to road markings,
lighting, signage, existing gantries and associated cabling and ducting works,
as shown on Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans; b widening of the A3
southbound carriageway to four lanes between the A3 Painshill junction and M25
junction 10, 1,240 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 6 and 7 of the works
plans; c modifications to the access to the Gas Valve Compound, including
erection of a barrier gate, in total 20 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 7
of the works plans; d works associated with the stopping up of the private
access to the Heyswood Girl Guide Camp Site and Court Close Farm, as shown on
Sheet 7 of the works plans and as shown at point F on Sheet 7 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans; and e works associated with the stopping up of
the private access to Painshill Park, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans
and as shown at point E on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.

Work No.18  — Improvement and widening of the A3 southbound on-slip at the A3
Painshill junction, in total 785 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 7 and 8
of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting; and— a a new signalised non-motorised
user crossing (toucan crossing), 18 metres to the south of the diverge from
the Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, as shown at point 8/b on Sheet
8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans; and b relocation of a bus
stop facility, as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans.

Work No.19 —  Alteration and widening of the A3 southbound off-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 305 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the
works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway surfacing, road
markings and lighting.

A3 Gantries and signage

Work No.20  — A new variable message sign cantilever gantry or similar signage
over the A3 southbound carriageway, 120 metres to the north of the A3 Ockham
Park junction, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No.21  — A new advanced directional sign cantilever gantry or similar
signage over the A3 southbound off-slip at the diverge from the A3 southbound
carriageway to the A3 Ockham Park junction, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works
plans.

Work No.22  — A new single span portal gantry or similar signage over the A3
southbound carriageway, 150 metres to the north of the diverge for the A3
southbound off-slip to the A3 Ockham Park junction, as shown on Sheet 2 of the
works plans.

Work No.23  — A new super span portal gantry or similar signage over the A3 at
each of the following locations— a 90 metres to the south of the existing
junction between the A3 and Wisley Lane, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works
plans; b at the existing junctions between the A3, Wisley Lane and Elm Lane,
as shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans; c 470 metres to the north of the
existing junction between the A3 and Wisley Lane, as shown on Sheet 3 of the
works plans; d 50 metres to the north of the junction between the A3 and Old
Lane, including over the A3 southbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, as shown on
Sheet 4 of the works plans; e at the proposed diverge for the A3 northbound
off-slip at M25 junction 10, including over the full width of both A3
carriageways and associated slip roads, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works
plans; f at the proposed diverge for the A3 southbound off-slip at M25
junction 10, including over the A3 southbound off-slip and the A3 northbound
on-slip, as shown on Sheet 5 of the works plans; g 200 metres to the north of
the proposed diverge for the A3 southbound off-slip at M25 junction 10, as
shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; h 300 metres to the south of the existing
private access to Court Close Farm and the Heyswood Girl Guide Camp Site from
the A3 southbound carriageway, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; i 30
metres to the south of the existing private access to Court Close Farm and the
Heyswood Girl Guide Camp Site from the A3 southbound carriageway, as shown on
Sheet 7 of the works plans; and j at the proposed diverge for the A3
northbound off-slip at the A3 Painshill junction, including over the A3
northbound off-slip and the A3 southbound on-slip, as shown on Sheet 8 of the
works plans.

Highway works – M25

Work No.24  — Improvement of the M25 eastbound carriageway, in total 5,580
metres in length, as shown on Sheet 5 and Sheets 10 to 18 of the works plans.
To include— a modifications to road markings, signage and existing gantries
and associated cabling and ducting works as shown on Sheet 5 and Sheets 10 to
18 of the works plans; b conversion of the existing M25 hard shoulder to a
running lane for traffic between the eastbound off-slip diverge and the
eastbound on-slip merge, 985 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 12 and 13
of the works plans; and c construction of an emergency refuge area 100 metres
in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and 13 of the works plans.

Work No.25  — Improvement, realignment and widening of the M25 eastbound off-
slip at M25 junction 10, in total 900 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5,
11 and 12 of the works plans. To include— a modifications to signage,
carriageway surfacing, road markings and lighting; and b a new short section
of hard shoulder 145 metres in length, shown as Work No.25(a) and Work No.
25(b) respectively on Sheets 5, 11 and 12 of the works plans.

Work No.26  — Alteration and widening of the M25 eastbound on-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 955 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 13 and 14 of
the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway surfacing,
road markings and lighting.

Work No.27  — Improvement of the M25 westbound carriageway, in total 6,050
metres in length, as shown on Sheet 5 and Sheets 10 to 18 of the works plans.
To include— a modifications to road markings, signage and existing gantries
and associated cabling and ducting works, as shown on Sheet 5 and Sheets 10 to
18 of the works plans; b cabling and ducting works to connect signage on the
M25 westbound carriageway with an existing power supply unit, as shown on
Sheet 10 of the works plans; c conversion of the existing M25 hard shoulder to
a running lane for traffic between the westbound off-slip diverge and the
westbound on-slip merge, 1,110 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 12 and
13 of the works plans; and d construction of an emergency refuge area 100
metres in length, as shown on Sheet 12 of the works plans.

Work No.28  — Alteration and widening of the M25 westbound off-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 800 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 13 and 14 of
the works plans. To include— a modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting; and b a new short section of hard
shoulder 145 metres in length, shown as Work No.28(a) and Work No.28(b)
respectively on Sheets 5, 13 and 14 of the works plans.

Work No.29  — Improvement and widening of the M25 westbound on-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 1,225 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 11 and 12
of the works plans. To include modifications to signage, carriageway
surfacing, road markings and lighting.

M25 gantries and signage

Work No.30  — A new super span portal gantry or similar signage over both
carriageways of the M25 at each of the following locations— a 340 metres to
the east of the Footpath 7 Buxton Wood accommodation overbridge, as shown on
Sheet 11 of the works plans; b 110 metres to the west of the existing
Bridleway 8 Clearmount overbridge, as shown on Sheet 12 of the works plans; c
at the proposed diverge for the M25 eastbound off-slip at M25 junction 10,
including over the eastbound off-slip and the westbound on-slip, as shown on
Sheet 12 of the works plans; d 25 metres to the west of the proposed new M25
junction 10 east bridge, as shown on Sheet 5 of the works plans; e at the
proposed diverge for the M25 westbound off-slip at M25 junction 10, including
over the westbound off-slip and the eastbound on-slip, as shown on Sheet 13 of
the works plans; and f 365 metres east of the proposed diverge for the M25
junction 10 westbound off-slip, as shown on Sheet 14 of the works plans.

Works to other highways, public rights of way and the provision of substitute
private means of access

Work No.31  — Improvement of the A3 Ockham Park junction, as shown on Sheet 1
of the works plans. To include— a improvement of the A3 Ockham Park junction
circulatory carriageway, 420 metres in length, to include new traffic signals
and associated cabling and ducting works, modifications to road markings and
signage and carriageway surfacing works; b improvement of the B2215 Portsmouth
Road at the tie-in with the A3 Ockham Park junction, 235 metres in length, to
include modifications to road markings and signage, footway improvements and a
new signal controlled non-motorised user crossing (toucan crossing) as shown
at point 1/a on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans; c
improvement of the B2039 Ockham Road North at the tie-in with the A3 Ockham
Park junction, 60 metres in length, to include widening of the B2039,
modifications to road markings and signage and a new signal controlled non-
motorised user crossing (toucan crossing) as shown at point 1/e on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans; d improvement of the highway
comprising both the A3 northbound on-slip and the B2039 between the Ockham
Park junction circulatory carriageway and Mill Lane, 90 metres in length, to
include modifications to road markings and signage and a new section of
footway in the verge; e improvement of Mill Lane at the tie-in with the A3
northbound on-slip, 55 metres in length, to include modifications to signage
and carriageway surfacing works; f a new non-segregated footway/cycle track
(to replace existing on road cycle lanes) 295 metres in length, commencing in
the verge of the B2215 Portsmouth Road and continuing around the southern side
of the A3 Ockham Park junction circulatory carriageway and terminating at the
tie-in with the B2039 Ockham Road North; g a new non-segregated footway/cycle
track 370 metres in length, commencing in the verge of the B2215 Portsmouth
Road northbound carriageway, continuing northwards around the western and
northern sides of the A3 Ockham Park junction, crossing over the A3 northbound
on-slip and A3 southbound off-slip and terminating on the east side of the
junction at its connection with Work No.33, to include a new signal controlled
non-motorised user crossing (toucan crossing) as shown at point 1/b on Sheet 1
of the streets, rights of way and access plans; and h a new bridleway, 50
metres in length, commencing in the verge of the B2039 Ockham Road North and
continuing around the south-east side of the A3 Ockham Park junction to
connect with Work No.33.

Work No.32  — Diversion of footpaths 13a and 13, in total 105 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No.33  — A new single carriageway highway (‘the Wisley Lane diversion’)
incorporating a 3 metre wide bridleway within the verge, commencing at the A3
Ockham Park junction (at a point between the A3 southbound off-slip and the
B2039 Ockham Road North), running generally northwards on the east side of the
A3, bridging over the A3 and then tying back in to Wisley Lane on the west
side of the A3, in total 1,390 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 1, 2 and
20 of the works plans. To include— a a new signal controlled non-motorised
user crossing (toucan crossing), as shown at point 1/d on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans; b a new single span bridge (‘the new
Stratford Brook underbridge’) 29 metres in length, to carry the road over
Stratford Brook, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans; c a new footpath in
the embankment earthworks to connect Elm Lane with the Wisley Lane overbridge
(Work No.33(d)), 30 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans;
d a new two-span bridge (‘the new Wisley Lane overbridge’) 69 metres in
length, to carry the diverted Wisley Lane over the A3 and to include
demolition of the existing Wisley Footbridge, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works
plans; e realignment of Wisley Lane on the west side of the A3, in total 250
metres in length, as shown on Sheets 2 and 20 of the works plans. To include
works associated with the stopping-up of Wisley Lane, as shown between point
2/8 on Sheet 2 and point 20/4 on Inset B of Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans; f realignment of the access to the Royal Horticultural
Society’s Wisley Gardens, to include provision of a new bus stop facility, as
shown on Sheets 2 and 20 of the works plans and works associated with the
stopping-up of the existing access to RHS Wisley Gardens as shown at point A
on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans; g works to divert
Footpath 7 on the west side of the A3 135 metres in length, as shown on Sheet
20 of the works plans; h a new footpath linking the Wisley Lane overbridge
with Work No.35, 105 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the works
plans; and i modifications to road signage and markings on Wisley Lane, as
shown on Inset A on Sheet 20 of the works plans.

Work No.34  — A new bridleway to connect the proposed Wisley Lane Diversion
(Work No.33) with Elm Lane and Byway 544, to include construction of a turning
head on Elm Lane and modifications to the entrance to Orchard Cottage, in
total 375 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 2, 3 and 23 of the works plans.

Work No.35  — A new bridleway commencing at Wisley Lane on the west side of
the A3, then running generally northwards, crossing the A3 near Cockcrow Hill,
the M25 near Sandpit Hill and crossing back to the west side of the A3 near
Redhill Road and continuing northwards on the west side of the A3 and
terminating at Seven Hills Road adjacent to Wood Court Lodge, typically
comprising a 3 metres wide tarmacadam surface with soft surface verges 1 metre
and 2 metres in width either side between Wisley Lane and the point at which
it connects with Work No.38, then widening to a 4.8 metres hard surfaced route
with 2 metre wide verges either side between Redhill Road and Seven Hills
Road, in total 4,265 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 2 to 7 and Sheets 13
and 20 of the works plans. To include— a a new barrier gate to the north of
Wisley Lane, as shown on Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans; b demolition of Footpath 17 Cockcrow overbridge, diversion of Footpath
17 and construction of a replacement bridge 50 metres to the south (‘the
replacement Cockcrow bridleway overbridge’), comprising a two-span structure
68 metres in length and incorporating a 25 metres wide soft verge wildlife
crossing, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans; c realignment of private
access tracks serving Hut Hill Cottage, Pond Farm and the Birchmere Scout
Camp, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans, to include construction of a
section of connecting bridleway 20 metres in length, as shown between points
4/4 and 4/6 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans; d 205
metres of new bridleway to connect the replacement Cockcrow overbridge with
Old Lane, including realignment of the access points to Ockham Bites Café and
Ockham Common Car Park, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans. To include
works associated with the stopping up of the existing accesses to the Ockham
Common Car Park as shown at points B and C on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans; e a new three-span bridleway overbridge 95 metres in
length (the new ‘Sandpit Hill Bridleway Overbridge’), to cross the M25 to the
east of M25 junction 10, as shown on Sheet 13 of the works plans; f a new
single-span bridleway bridge over the A3 (the new Red Hill Bridleway 12
Overbridge), 60 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans and
Sheet 6 of the Scheme Layout Plans; g modifications to road markings and
signage at Redhill Road and new barrier gates, as shown on Sheet 6 of the
works plans and on Sheet 6 of the Scheme Layout Plans; h diversion of the
private access to Long Orchard Farm and Nos. 1 and 3 Farm Cottages, as shown
on Sheet 6 of the works plans; i diversion of the private access to Long
Orchard House, The Coach House and Fir Tree Cottage, as shown on Sheet 7 of
the works plans; j diversion of the access to the Starbucks Drive Thru Café,
as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans; and k modifications to carriageway
surfacing, road markings and signage on the B365 Seven Hills Road, between the
A3 and Wood Court Lodge, to include a new barrier gate on Seven Hills Road
adjacent to Wood Court Lodge, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans and Sheet
7 of the Scheme Layout Plans.

Work No.36  — The diversion of Footpath 14, in total 595 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans.

Work No.37  — Improvement of Pointers Road as a bridleway, in total 815 metres
in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and 13 of the works plans. To include a new
bridleway connection to Work No.35 as shown on Sheet 5 of the works plans and
construction of a replacement barrier gate in the vicinity of The Cottage, as
shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

Work No.38  — A new bridleway, in total 125 metres in length, to connect the
new ‘Redhill Bridleway Overbridge’ (Work No.35(f)) with Wisley Common, as
shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans.

...

Work No.40  — A new private access road to serve New Farm, the Gas Valve
Compound, the Heyswood Girl Guide Camp Site and Court Close Farm, commencing
at the A3 southbound on-slip at the A3 Painshill junction and terminating with
a new turning head at Court Close Farm, in total 965 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans.

Work No.41  — A new footpath commencing at the A3 Painshill junction and
terminating at the A3 southbound on-slip at the Painshill junction, at a point
155 metres south of the A3 Painshill junction, in total 175 metres in length,
as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans.

Work No.42  — Improvement of the A3 Painshill junction, as shown on Sheet 8 of
the works plans. To include— a modifications to road markings, traffic
signals, lighting, signage and associated cabling and ducting and carriageway
surfacing works on the A3 Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, in total
430 metres in length; b improvement of the A245 Portsmouth Road at the tie-in
with the A3 Painshill junction, in total 170 metres in length. To include
modifications to road markings and signage and a new CCTV mast in the verge
and associated cabling and ducting works; c upgrading of an existing footway
in the verge of the circulatory carriageway on the southern side of the
roundabout to a non-segregated footway/cycle track, in total 140 metres in
length; d modifications to road signs and markings on the A3 northbound on-
slip at the A3 Painshill junction where the slip road diverges from the
circulatory carriageway, in total 120 metres in length; and e modifications to
roads signs and markings on the A3 southbound off-slip at the A3 Painshill
junction, in total 245 metres in length.

Work No.43  — A new dedicated slip lane to connect the A3 northbound off-slip
at the A3 Painshill junction directly with the A245 westbound carriageway and
associated lighting and signage, in total 180 metres in length, as shown on
Sheet 8 of the works plans. To include a signal controlled non-motorised user
crossing (toucan crossing), as shown at point 8/c on Sheet 8 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.

Work No.44  — Improvement of the A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway
between the A3 Painshill junction and the entrance to Old Trees, 35 metres
west of the junction between the A245 and Seven Hills Road, in total 550
metres in length, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans. To include— a
modifications to road markings, traffic signals, lighting, signage and
carriageway surfacing, in total 540 metres in length as shown on Sheets 8 and
9 of the works plans; b widening of the A245 westbound carriageway to three
lanes between the A3 Painshill junction and the Seven Hills Road junction, in
total 425 metres in length as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans; c a
new non-segregated footway/cycle track in the verge, in total 550 metres in
length, as shown between point 8/24 on Sheet 8 and point 9/11 on Sheet 9 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans; d works associated with the
stopping-up of the junction between the A245 Byfleet Road and Old Byfleet
Road, as shown on Sheet 9 of the works plans; e a new dedicated slip road to
connect the A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway directly with Seven Hills
Road (South), in total 40 metres in length, to include lighting and signage,
as shown on Sheet 9 of the works plans; and f diversion of a footway in the
verge of the A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway, between the diverge for
Work No.44(e) and the junction with Seven Hills Road, in total 12 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 9 of the works plans.

Work No.45  — Improvement of the B365 Seven Hills Road, to include
modifications to traffic signals, road markings and signage and associated
cabling and ducting works, in total 205 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 9
of the works plans.

Work No.46  — A new private access to Feltonfleet School from Seven Hills
Road, in total 150 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 9 of the works plans.
To include associated lighting.

Work No.47  — Improvement of the A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway
between the entrance to Lingwood, 85 metres west of the junction with Seven
Hills Road, and the A3 Painshill junction, in total 600 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans. To include— a modifications to
road markings, traffic signals, lighting, signage and carriageway surfacing,
600 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans; b
widening of the exit from the Seven Hills Road junction to three lanes before
narrowing to the existing two lanes 115 metres from the junction as shown on
Sheet 9 of the works plans; c a new retaining wall structure 90 metres in
length as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans; d works to the central reserve,
to include closure of the gap allowing access to Feltonfleet School/Old
Byfleet Road from the A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway, as shown on
Sheet 9 of the works plans and as shown at point J on Sheet 9 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans; e replacement of the footway in the verge of
the A245 eastbound carriageway, to the east of the junction with the B365
Seven Hills Road, 155 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 9 of the works
plans; and f widening of the A245 eastbound carriageway to three lanes 105
metres in advance of the A3 Painshill junction as shown on Sheet 8 of the
works plans.

Work No.48  — Not used

Work No.49  — Demolition of Bridleway 8 Clearmount overbridge and construction
of a replacement single span bridleway overbridge, 63 metres in length, 40
metres to the west. To include works to divert Bridleway 8, Footpath 10 and
Footpath 11 to the new bridge alignment and works to tie-in to an existing
permissive signposted route, in total 730 metres in length, as shown on Sheets
11 and 12 of the works plans.

Work No.50  — Improvement of Old Lane and Byway 525 (Byway Open to All
Traffic), between Elm Corner and Old Lane, to include— a tarmacadam
resurfacing of the Byway and works to tie-in to Hatch Lane and Old Lane, in
total 710 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 24 of the works plans and
clearance of trees and other vegetation to provide a visibility splay,
including associated road traffic mitigation measures; and b two number toad
crossings and associated reptilian fencing 150 metres in length at the back of
each verge of Old Lane as shown on Sheet 24 of the works plans.

...

Proposed drainage attenuation ponds

Work No.52  — A new drainage attenuation pond at each of the following
locations— a on land to the south of Mill Lane, to include a new access track
from Mill Lane, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans; b on land to the east
of the A3 and south of Elm Lane, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans; c on
land to the east of the A3 and north of Elm Lane, as shown on Sheet 2 of the
works plans; d on land to the west of the A3 between Wisley Lane and Footpath
17 Cockcrow overbridge, with access from Work No.35, as shown on Sheet 3 of
the works plans; e on land to the west of the A3 and north of Footpath 17
Cockcrow overbridge, to include a new access track, as shown on Sheet 4 of the
works plans; f on land to the east of the A3 and north of Footpath 17 Cockcrow
overbridge, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans; g on land to the south-
east of M25 junction 10, to include an access from Work No.35 as shown on
Sheets 5 and 13 of the works plans; h on land to the north of the M25
eastbound off-slip at M25 junction 10, to include an access track from the
upgraded Footpath 11 and Bridleway 8 Clearmount Overbridge, as shown on Sheets
5 and 12 of the works plans; i on land to the north of the M25 eastbound on-
slip near Pointers Road (two ponds), to include a maintenance accessway from
Work. No.35, as shown on Sheets 5 and 13 of the works plans; j on land to the
west of the A3 and south of Seven Hills Road, to include an access from Seven
Hills Road as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans; k on land to the east of
the A3 and north of the Gas Valve Compound, to include an access from Work
No.40, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans; l on land to the north of the
A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway and west of Manor Pond, to include a
new maintenance access track from the A245 Byfleet Road, as shown on Sheet 9
of the works plans; and m on land to the south of the M25 and west of
Bridleway 8 Clearmount overbridge, to include an access from Work No.49
(bridleway 8 realignment), as shown on Sheets 11 and 12 of the works plans.

Ordinary watercourse diversions

Work No.53  — The diversion and/or realignment of an unnamed ordinary
watercourse from each of the following locations— a in the verge of the A3
southbound carriageway to the south of Elm Lane, in total 275 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans; b in the verge of the A3
southbound carriageway to the south of Bolder Mere, in total 570metres in
length, as shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans; c between the edge of
Ockham Common and the verge of the existing M25 westbound off-slip at M25
junction 10, in total 95 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 5 of the Works
plans; d in the verge of the M25 westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in
total 160 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5 and 12 of the works plans; e
between the A3 southbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 and Pointers Road, in
total 60 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 5 of the works plans; f in the
verge of the M25 eastbound on-slip, in total 230 metres in length, as shown on
Sheets 5 and 13 of the works plans; and g in the verge of the M25 westbound
off-slip at M25 junction 10, in total 345 metres in length, as shown on Sheet
13 of the works plans.

Proposed environmental mitigation and compensation works

Work No.54  — Environmental mitigation works to improve Stratford Brook and
adjoining riparian habitat, to include selective tree-felling, coppicing and
clearance of scrub vegetation, creation of backwater habitats and other works
to locally improve the hydromorphological condition of the watercourse
channel, as shown on Sheet 1 of the works plans.

Work No.55  — Environmental mitigation and enhancement works to improve Bolder
Mere and adjoining marginal habitat, to include reedbed planting and
translocation, selective tree felling, coppicing and scrub clearance and other
associated measures, as shown on Sheets 3, 4 and 24 of the works plans.

Work No.56  — Environmental mitigation works on land at Hut Hill, as shown on
Sheet 4 of the works plans.

Work No.57  — Environmental compensation works comprising the creation of
replacement habitat for the Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA)
at each of the following locations— a on land near Wisley Common (‘Wisley SPA
compensation land’), as shown on Sheet 11 of the works plans; and b on land
north of Old Lane (‘Old Lane SPA compensation land’), as shown on Sheet 26 of
the works plans.

Work No.58  — Environmental compensation works comprising the enhancement of
existing habitat within the Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA),
at each of the following locations— a on land north of Elm Lane (‘Elm Lane SPA
enhancement area’), as shown on Sheets 3, 4, 24 and 25 of the works plans; b
on land south of Hut Hill (‘Hut Hill South SPA enhancement area’), as shown on
Sheets 3 and 20 of the works plans; c on land at Cockcrow Hill (‘Cockcrow Hill
SPA enhancement area’), as shown on Sheets 4, 5 and 21 of the works plans; d
on land at Ockham Common and Sandpit Hill (‘Ockham Common/Sandpit Hill SPA
enhancement area’), as shown on Sheets 4, 5, 13, and 25 of the works plans; e
on land north-west of Pond Farm (‘Pond Farm West SPA enhancement area’), as
shown on Sheets 11 and 22 of the works plans; f on two plots of land south-
west of Pond Farm (‘Pond Farm south SPA enhancement area’), as shown on Sheets
20 and 22 of the works plans; g on land at Wisley Common (‘Wisley Common SPA
enhancement area’), as shown on Sheet 21 of the works plans; and h on land
east of Old Lane (‘Ockham Common/Old Lane SPA enhancement area’), as shown on
Sheet 25 of the works plans.

Work No.59  — Environmental works in connection with the provision of
replacement common land and open space land at Park Barn Farm (‘Park Barn Farm
replacement land’), as shown on Sheets 11, 12, 27, 28 and 29 of the works
plans, to include the provision of 395 metres of bridleway as shown between
point 27/1 on Sheet 27 and point 28/3 on Sheet 28 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.

Work No.60  — Environmental mitigation works on land to the north of the M25
and adjacent to Buxton Wood, to include the creation of new woodland and wood
pasture habitat, as shown on Sheets 11 and 27 of the works plans.

Work No.61  — A new or replacement environmental barrier (close boarded fence)
at each of the following locations— a in the verge of the A3 northbound
carriageway, commencing at Work No.35(b) (the replacement Cockcrow overbridge)
and continuing generally northwards alongside the A3 northbound off-slip and
then westwards along the verge of the M25 westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10
including along the edge of Wisley Common, terminating at Footpath 7 Buxton
Wood accommodation overbridge, in total 1,750 metres in length, as shown on
Sheets 4, 5, 11 and 12 of the works plans; b in the verge of the M25 eastbound
carriageway, commencing 115 metres west of Footpath 7 Buxton Wood
accommodation overbridge and continuing generally eastwards alongside the M25
eastbound off-slip at junction 10 and along the edge of Wisley Common and then
northwards along the verge of the A3 northbound on-slip, terminating at Work
No.35(f) (the new Red Hill Bridleway 12 overbridge), in total 1,860 metres in
length as shown on Sheets 5, 6, 11 and 12 of the works plans; c in the verge
of the A3 southbound carriageway, commencing at Work No.35(f) (the new Red
Hill Bridleway 12 overbridge) and continuing generally southwards alongside
the A3 southbound off-slip and then eastwards along the verge of the M25
eastbound on-slip and along the edge of Chatley Heath Common, terminating 105
metres east of Work No.30(e) (a proposed new superspan portal gantry), in
total 970 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 5, 6 and 13 of the works plans;
d in the verge of the M25 westbound carriageway, commencing 120 metres east of
Work No.30(e) (a proposed new super span portal gantry) and continuing
generally westwards alongside the M25 westbound off-slip at junction 10 and
along the edge of Chatley Heath Common and then southwards along the verge of
the A3 southbound on-slip, terminating 25 metres south of Work No.35(b) (the
replacement Cockcrow overbridge), in total 1,070 metres in length as shown on
Sheets 4, 5 and 13 of the works plans.

Utility Diversions

Work No.62  — The diversion of electric cables and associated apparatus and
equipment, as follows— a to accommodate widening of the A3 southbound
carriageway, between Elm Lane and Bolder Mere, in total 335 metres in length,
as shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans. To include construction of a
new lighting sub-station as shown on Sheet 3 of the Scheme Layout Plans; b to
accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway immediately to the north
of the junction between the A3 and Wisley Lane, in total 40 metres in length,
as shown on Sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans; c to accommodate modifications
to the access to RHS Wisley Garden at Wisley Lane, in total 70 metres in
length, as shown on Sheets 2 and 20 of the works plans; d to accommodate
widening of the A3 northbound carriageway between Wisley Lane and Footpath 17
Cockcrow overbridge, in total 220 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 3 and 4
of the works plans. To include repositioning of a pole mounted transformer to
accommodate construction of Work No.35; e to accommodate widening of the A3
northbound carriageway and the construction of the replacement Cockcrow
overbridge, in total 225 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works
plans; f to accommodate alteration and widening of the A3 southbound on-slip
at M25 junction 10, in total 595 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 4 and 5
of the works plans; g to accommodate construction of a dedicated free-flow
slip lane between the A3 northbound off-slip and the M25 westbound on-slip at
M25 junction 10, in total 105 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 5 of the
works plans; h to accommodate widening and improvement of the A3 northbound
carriageway in the vicinity of Redhill Road, in total 235 metres in length, as
shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; i to accommodate widening of the A3 (both
carriageways) in the vicinity of Long Orchard Farm and Court Close Farm, in
total 40 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 6 and 7 of the works plans; j to
accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway between the access to
Long Orchard House and Seven Hills Road, to include the relocation of an
existing substation in the vicinity of the Starbucks Drive Thru Café, in total
440 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans; k to accommodate
improvement of the A3 northbound off-slip at the A3 Painshill junction, in
total 445 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 7 and 8 of the works plans; l
to accommodate widening of the A3 southbound on-slip at the A3 Painshill
junction and footpath works, in total 210 metres in length, to include
relocation of an existing sub-station, as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans;
m to accommodate construction of a new dedicated slip lane at the A3 Painshill
junction connecting the A3 northbound off-slip directly with the A245 Byfleet
Road westbound carriageway, in total 85 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 8
of the works plans; n to accommodate the construction of a new dedicated free-
flow slip lane at the A3 Painshill junction connecting the A245 Byfleet Road
eastbound carriageway directly with the A3 northbound on-slip, in total 25
metres in length, as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans; o to accommodate the
construction of a substitute private means of access to the Feltonfleet
School, in total 15 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 9 of the works plans;
p to accommodate the construction of a new slip lane between the A245 Byfleet
Road westbound carriageway and Seven Hills Road, in total 15 metres in length,
to include relocation of an existing switching station, as shown on Sheet 9 of
the works plans; and q to accommodate widening and improvement of the A245
Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway, in total 65 metres in length, as shown on
Sheet 9 of the works plans.

Work No.63  — The diversion of gas pipelines, as follows— a to accommodate
widening and improvement of the A3 between the A3 Ockham Park junction and M25
junction 10, in total 2,375 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3 and 4
of the works plans; b to accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway
and construction of the new Red Hill Bridleway overbridge, in total 210 metres
in length, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; c to accommodate widening
and improvement of the A3 southbound carriageway between Court Close Farm and
the A3 Painshill junction, in total 1,235 metres in length, to include the
diversion of gas pipeline connections at the Gas Valve Compound, as shown on
Sheets 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans; d to accommodate widening of the A3
northbound carriageway between the access to Long Orchard House and Seven
Hills Road, in total 425 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works
plans; and e to accommodate widening of the M25 eastbound off-slip and
westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total 200 metres in length, as shown
on Sheet 12 of the works plans.

Work No.64  — The diversion of water pipelines, as follows— a to accommodate
widening of the A3 northbound on-slip and A3 northbound carriageway between
the A3 Ockham Park junction and Hut Hill, to include the relocation of
existing water hydrants, in total 1,570 metres in length, as shown on Sheets
1, 2 and 3 of the works plans; b to accommodate widening of the A3 northbound
carriageway in the vicinity of the Cockcrow Overbridge, in total 305 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans; c to accommodate the
alteration of M25 junction 10 and improvement of the A3 northbound off-slip
and A3 northbound on-slip at M25 junction 10, in total 805 metres in length,
as shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the works plans; d to accommodate construction
of Work No.35(f) (the new ‘Red Hill Bridleway overbridge’), in total 100
metres in length, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; e to accommodate
widening of the A3 southbound carriageway to the south of Court Close Farm, in
total 15 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 6 of the works plans; f to
accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway between the access to
Long Orchard Farm and Seven Hills Road, to include the relocation of existing
water hydrants, in total 590 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 6 and 7 of
the works plans; g to accommodate widening of the A3 southbound carriageway to
the north of Court Close Farm, in total 25 metres in length, as shown on Sheet
7 of the works plans; h to accommodate widening of the A3 southbound
carriageway to the south of the Gas Valve Compound, in total 15 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 7 of the works plans; i to accommodate improvement
of the A3 northbound off-slip at the A3 Painshill junction and construction of
a new dedicated slip lane, in total 20 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 8
of the works plans; j to accommodate improvement of the A3 southbound on-slip
at the A3 Painshill junction and works to construct a new footpath (Work
No.41) in the vicinity of West Lodge at Painshill Park, in total 55 metres in
length, as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans; and k to accommodate widening
and improvement of the A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway, to the east of
the B365 Seven Hills Road junction, in total 50 metres in length, as shown on
Sheet 9 of the works plans.

Work No.65  — The diversion of telecommunication cables, media cables and
equipment, as follows— a to accommodate widening of the A3 southbound
carriageway between the A3 Ockham Park junction and the A3 Painshill junction,
to include the diversion of cables at M25 junction 10, in total 4,825 metres
in length, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans; b
to accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway at the junction
between the A3 and Wisley Lane, in total 70 metres in length, as shown on
Sheets 2 and 3 of the works plans; c to accommodate modifications to the
entrance to RHS Wisley Garden at Wisley Lane, in total 95 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 2 and 20 of the works plans; d to accommodate widening of the
A3 northbound carriageway in the vicinity of Footpath 17 Cockcrow overbridge,
in total 260 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 4 of the works plans; e to
accommodate widening of the A3 northbound carriageway between the access to
Long Orchard Farm and the diverge for the A3 northbound off-slip at the A3
Painshill junction, in total 800 metres in length, as shown on Sheets 6, 7 and
8 of the works plans; f to accommodate construction of a new dedicated slip
lane at the A3 Painshill junction connecting the A3 northbound off-slip
directly with the A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway, in total 120 metres
in length, as shown on Sheet 8 of the works plans; g to accommodate
improvement and widening of the A245 westbound carriageway between the A3
Painshill junction and Old Byfleet Road, in total 465 metres in length, as
shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans; and h to accommodate widening of
the A245 eastbound carriageway, between the B365 Seven Hills Road junction and
Old Byfleet Road, in total 135 metres in length, as shown on Sheet 9 of the
works plans.

Other relevant works

In connection with the construction of any of those works, further development
within the Order limits consisting of— a alteration of the layout of any
street permanently or temporarily, including but not limited to increasing or
reducing the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing or increasing
the width of any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the
street; and altering the level of any such kerb, footpath, footway, cycle
track or verge; b works required for the strengthening, improvement,
maintenance or reconstruction of any street; c works required for the
strengthening, alteration, refurbishment or demolition of any existing bridge,
building or structure; d the remediation of any carriageway made redundant by
the stopping up of any public highway or means of access; e ramps, means of
access (including private means of access), non-motorised links, footpaths,
footways, bridleways, cycle tracks and crossing facilities; f embankments,
cuttings, aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations, retaining walls, parapets,
wingwalls, barriers (including road restraint/safety barriers), new and
replacement highway lighting, fencing and drainage works (including carrier
drains, filter drains, outfalls, culverts, headwalls, ditches, attenuation
earthwork ditches, soakaways, catchpits and pollution control measures); g the
erection of highway boundary fencing, anti-dazzle fencing and the realignment
of existing highway fencing along the edge of Wisley Common and other common
land at Chatley Heath; h street works, including breaking up or opening a
street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; tunnelling or boring under a
street; i works to place, alter, divert, relocate, remove, protect or maintain
street furniture, apparatus, services, plant and other equipment in a street,
or in other land, including mains, sewers, drains, pipes, hydrants, cables and
ducts and associated cabinets, lights, CCTV, radar and traffic detection
equipment; j works to alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with a
watercourse, including private water supplies; k landscaping, environmental
barriers, works associated with the provision of ecological mitigation and
other works to mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance
or operation of the authorised development; l works for the benefit or
protection of land affected by the authorised development; m site preparation
works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of
existing structures and the creation of alternative footpaths); earthworks
(including soil stripping and storage, site levelling); and remediation of
contamination; n the felling of trees; o the establishment of construction
compounds and working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking,
temporary site hoarding, fencing and perimeter enclosure, security fencing,
construction-related buildings, welfare facilities, temporary worker
accommodation facilities for vehicle recovery crew, vehicle recovery and
customer care facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other
machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences; p the provision of other works
including pavement works, carriageway surfacing, kerbing and paved areas
works, signing, signals, the modification or demolition of existing gantries,
new and replacement highway safety barriers, road markings, traffic management
measures including temporary roads, temporary earthworks and construction site
accesses and such other works as are associated with the construction of the
authorised development; and q such other works, working sites storage areas,
works of demolition or works of whatever nature, as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of, or for purposes associated with or ancillary
to, the construction, operation or maintenance of the authorised development
which do not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects to those assessed in the environmental statement.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 4

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

    “ Bolder Mere mitigation and enhancement area ” means the area within
which environmental mitigation and enhancement measures will be undertaken, to
prevent any deterioration in the classification status of Bolder Mere as a
surface water body and to ensure compliance with relevant environmental
objectives in accordance with the Water Environment (Water Framework
Directive) (England and Wales) Regulations 2017 , (as provided for by Work
No.55 in Schedule 1 (authorised development));         “ CEMP ” means any
construction environmental management plan prepared and approved under
requirement 3;         “ commence ” means beginning to carry out any material
operation (as defined in section 56(4) of the 1990 Act) forming part of the
authorised development other than operations consisting of non-intrusive
investigations and surveys, ecological surveys and pre-construction ecological
mitigation, investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground
conditions and levels, and the temporary display of site notices or
advertisements, and “ commencement ” is to be construed accordingly;         “
common land ” has the same meaning as “ common ” in sections 131 and 132 of
the 2008 Act and “ open space ” has the same meaning as in those sections;
“ completed ” in relation to a relevant part of the authorised development,
means the relevant part of the authorised development is completed and fully
open for traffic and “ completion ” is to be construed accordingly;         “
County Archaeologist ” means the individual appointed as such by Surrey County
Council;         “ Ecological Clerk of Works ” means the individual appointed
as such by the undertaker;         “ European protected species ” has the same
meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and 46
(European protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and
Species Regulations 2017 ;         “ Habitats Regulations Assessment ” means
the report of that description certified under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.);         “ HEMP ” means the Handover Environmental Management
Plan prepared by the undertaker;         “ Landscape and Ecology Management
and Monitoring Plan ” means the plan contained in Appendix 7.20 of the
Environmental Statement certified under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.);         “ Outline CEMP ” means the outline construction
environmental management plan certified under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.);         “ pre-construction ecological mitigation ” means any
non-intrusive preparatory works of an environmental character;         “
protected species ” means species which are subject to protection under the
laws of England or which are European protected species;         “ REAC ”
means the Register of Environmental Actions and Commitments certified under
article 45 (certification of documents, etc.);         “ replacement land ”
means the replacement land identified in Part 4 of Schedule 10;         “
requirement consultee ” means a body that is specified in any requirement
within this Schedule as a body to be consulted prior to the undertaker making
an application to discharge the relevant requirement;         “ RHS Tree
Protection Plan ” means the plan of that description certified under article
45 (certification of documents, etc.);         “ Scheme Layout Plans ” means
the plans of that description certified under article 45 (certification of
documents, etc.);         “ SPA Management and Monitoring Plan ” means the
document of that name which forms part of the environmental statement;
“ suitably qualified and experienced ecologist ” means an ecologist who is a
full member of the Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management
and having at least 10 years of relevant experience;         “ Thames Basin
Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA) compensation land ” means the land
outside the existing SPA boundary and which is to be acquired or used for the
purposes of creating compensatory habitat to offset the loss of existing SPA
habitat (as provided for by Work No.57 in Schedule 1 (authorised
development));         “ Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA)
enhancement area ” means the area within the existing SPA boundary and within
which compensatory ecological enhancement measures will be implemented to
offset other potential adverse effects on the SPA (as provided for by Work
No.58 in Schedule 1 (authorised development));         “ Water Framework
Directive Assessment Report ” means the report of that description certified
under article 45 (certification of documents, etc.).

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must not commence later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date on which this Order comes into force.

###### Construction and handover environmental management plans

3

3.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a CEMP,
substantially in accordance with the outline CEMP, for that part has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority and the local highway
authority.

3.2

The CEMP must be written in accordance with the principles of ISO14001 and
reflect the commitments made in the REAC and mitigation measures detailed in
the Environmental Statement, to avoid, reduce or mitigate environmental
effects or risks during construction. The CEMP must—

3.2.a

contain a record of all sensitive environmental features that have the
potential to be affected by the construction of the authorised development,
including an environmental constraints map;

3.2.b

require adherence to the workings hours of 07:30 to 18:00 on Mondays to
Fridays and 08:00 to 19:00 on Saturdays, except for—

3.2.b.i

night-time closures for bridge demolition and installation or other works
requiring the full or partial closure of, or otherwise adversely affecting the
operation of the M25 and A3 carriageways;

3.2.b.ii

any oversize deliveries or deliveries where daytime working would be
excessively disruptive to normal traffic operation;

3.2.b.iii

the provision of services at compounds, including CCTV and vehicle recovery;

3.2.b.iv

works associated with the diversion of existing utilities;

3.2.b.v

junction tie-in works;

3.2.b.vi

works associated with traffic management and signal changes;

3.2.b.vii

cases of emergency; and

3.2.b.viii

as otherwise agreed by the relevant planning authority or local highway
authority in advance.

3.2.c

include the following management plans and method statements for undertaking
the authorised development—

3.2.c.i

an arboricultural method statement setting out details of the trees to be
retained and measures for their protection during construction;

3.2.c.ii

the control of noise and vibration;

3.2.c.iii

the control of dust, odour and smoke;

3.2.c.iv

construction site artificial lighting;

3.2.c.v

the management of materials;

3.2.c.vi

the management and storage of topsoil;

3.2.c.vii

the management of site waste;

3.2.c.viii

the protection and drainage of surface water and groundwater;

3.2.c.ix

the protection of ecological habitats and species;

3.2.c.x

the control of invasive species; and

3.2.c.xi

pollution prevention plan and procedures for dealing with any unexpected
environmental emergencies;

3.2.d

set out the arrangements for monitoring and recording compliance with
environmental commitments during construction; and

3.2.e

contain a community relations strategy.

3.3

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the approved
CEMP.

3.4

The undertaker must prepare a HEMP by the end of the construction,
commissioning and handover stage of the authorised development, in accordance
with the process set out in the approved CEMP.

3.5

The HEMP must address the matters set out in the approved CEMP that are
relevant to the operation and maintenance of the authorised development, and
must contain—

3.5.a

the environmental information needed for the future maintenance and operation
of the authorised development;

3.5.b

the long-term commitments to aftercare, monitoring and maintenance activities
relating to the environmental features and mitigation measures that will be
required to ensure the continued long-term effectiveness of the environmental
design and mitigation measures and the prevention of unexpected environmental
impacts during the operation of the authorised development; and

3.5.c

a record of the consents, commitments and permissions resulting from liaison
with statutory bodies.

3.6

The authorised development must be operated and maintained in accordance with
the HEMP.

###### Traffic management during construction

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the alteration or improvement
of the M25 or A3 is to commence until a traffic management plan relevant to
that part of the authorised development has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority and the local highway authority.

4.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the traffic
management plan approved under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Detailed design

5

5.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the works plans,
the Scheme Layout Plans and the engineering drawings and sections, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation
with the relevant planning authority and the local highway authority on
matters related to their functions and provided that the Secretary of State is
satisfied that any amendments would not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects in comparison with those described
in the environmental statement.

5.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph (1), those details are deemed to supersede the corresponding
drawings and plans certified under article 45 and the undertaker must make
those amended details available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public and undertake the works in accordance with the approved amended
details.

###### Landscaping

6

6.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft landscaping works
and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with the relevant planning authority.

6.2

The landscaping scheme must reflect the mitigation measures set out in the
REAC and must be substantially in accordance with the Scheme Layout Plans and
the Landscape and Ecology Management and Monitoring Plan. It must reflect the
results of any arboricultural walkover surveys undertaken in accordance with
British Standard 5837:2012 and requirement 3.

6.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include details
of—

6.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

6.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

6.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

6.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

6.3.e

hard landscaping and materials, minor structures and street furniture
associated with any new public right of way or upgraded public right of way
proposed to support sustainable travel movement along the A3 corridor or for
the purposes of providing improved access to the replacement land; and

6.3.f

a timetable for the implementation of the landscaping works.

6.4

All landscaping works must be carried out in accordance with the relevant
recommendations of appropriate British Standards or other recognised codes of
good practice.

6.5

Any tree or shrub planted as part of the authorised development that, within a
period of 10 years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion
of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased, must be
replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted, unless the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority on matters related
to its function, gives consent to a variation.

###### Design, layout and implementation of Replacement Land

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the creation of an area of
replacement land (Work No.59) is to commence until for that part details of
the layout and design of the land have been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority and with the prospective owner of the replacement land. The
details must include—

7.1.a

a landscaping scheme for the replacement land in accordance with requirement
6;

7.1.b

the extent, methods and timing of any tree felling or other vegetation
clearance required within the boundary of the replacement land to render the
land suitable for public recreational access;

7.1.c

measures for the management and protection of any ancient woodland, veteran
trees or trees which are the subject of a tree preservation order, if present
within the boundary of the relevant part of the replacement land;

7.1.d

the location and extent of any translocation of ancient woodland soils if
proposed within the relevant part of the replacement land;

7.1.e

the detailed alignment and surface treatment of any proposed new paths or
public rights of way to be created through the replacement land;

7.1.f

any measures, including street furniture and signage to be provided for the
purposes of supporting, promoting and managing non-motorised public access to
the land;

7.1.g

boundary treatment measures, including details of any new fencing, gates and
barriers necessary to manage public access both within the replacement land
and to restrict access to other adjoining land;

7.1.h

timetable for the implementation, completion and opening of the replacement
land for public access; and

7.1.i

a scheme for the maintenance and management of the replacement land, including
details of any environmental monitoring measures.

7.2

The authorised development must be carried out, maintained, managed and
monitored in accordance with the details approved under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA) Compensatory Habitat Creation and Enhancement Measures

8

8.1

Details of the compensatory habitat creation and enhancement measures to be
undertaken in respect of the Thames Basin Heaths SPA (on the compensation land
(Work No.57) and in the enhancement areas (Work No.58)) must be submitted to
and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with
the relevant planning authority, Surrey County Council and Natural England.
The details must be substantially in accordance with the preliminary Scheme
design shown on the Scheme Layout Plans and must reflect the measures set out
in the Environmental Statement, the REAC and in the Habitats Regulations
Assessment. The details must include—

8.1.a

existing vegetation to be retained and any new planting species proposed
within the Thames Basin Heaths SPA compensation land, including details of
establishment methods;

8.1.b

the extent, methods and timing of any tree felling and stump removal required
within the SPA enhancement areas;

8.1.c

the extent and depth of any topsoil removal necessary for the purposes of re-
establishing heathland habitat;

8.1.d

measures for the protection of habitats and species within the SPA to be
adopted during the enhancement works;

8.1.e

measures to support and manage public recreational access within the
compensation land and enhancement areas which comprise common land or open
space, including any new signage, gates, styles where proposed and consistent
with ecological conservation management objectives;

8.1.f

a timetable for the completion of the environmental mitigation and enhancement
works (Work Nos. 57 and 58); and

8.1.g

a scheme for the maintenance, management and monitoring of the compensatory
habitat creation and enhancement measures in respect of the Thames Basin
Heaths SPA that reflects the measures set out in the SPA Management and
Monitoring Plan.

8.2

The compensatory habitat creation and enhancement measures must be carried out
and maintained, managed and monitored in accordance with the details approved
under sub-paragraph (1).

8.3

Unless otherwise approved by the Secretary of State in writing, following
consultation with Natural England, the compensatory habitat creation measures
on the proposed Thames Basin Heaths SPA compensation land must be begun before
any part of the authorised development within the boundary of the SPA may
commence.

8.4

No trees may be felled or other preparatory works undertaken within the SPA
enhancement areas (Work No.58) until the methods and timing for such works
have been approved in writing by the Secretary of State under sub-paragraph
(1).

###### Cockcrow Green Bridge

9

9.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction of the
replacement Footpath 17 Cockcrow Bridge (Work No.35(b)) is to commence until
details of the bridge design features, substantially in accordance with the
preliminary design shown on the Engineering Drawings and Sections have been
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
relevant planning authority, Natural England and the local highway authority.

9.2

Work No.35(b) must be constructed in accordance with the details approved
under sub-paragraph (1) unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State.

9.3

Notwithstanding sub-paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary of State may approve
under this requirement a bridge design excluding any soft verge wildlife
crossing.

###### Bolder Mere Mitigation and Enhancement Area

10

10.1

No part of Work No.5(c) is to commence until details of the environmental
mitigation and enhancement measures to be undertaken in the Bolder Mere
mitigation and enhancement area (Work No.55) have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
Environment Agency, Natural England, Surrey County Council and the relevant
planning authority. The details must substantially accord with the measures
described in the environmental statement and in the Water Framework Directive
Assessment Report and must include—

10.1.a

details of any vegetation to be removed to improve the hydrosere of the shore
of Bolder Mere;

10.1.b

the extent, shape and species composition of the replicate marginal vegetation
to be provided alongside the proposed retaining wall, including the method of
implementation;

10.1.c

a timetable for the completion of the environmental mitigation and enhancement
works (Work No.55); and

10.1.d

a scheme for the maintenance, management and environmental monitoring of the
mitigation and enhancement measures at Bolder Mere.

10.2

The environmental mitigation and enhancement works must be carried out,
maintained, managed and monitored in accordance with the details approved
under sub-paragraph (1) and must be begun before any part of Work No.5(c) may
commence.

10.3

No part of Work No.5(c) is to commence until details of the surface water
drainage and pollution control measures for that part of the A3 southbound
carriageway adjoining the proposed Bolder Mere retaining wall, reflecting the
results of a detailed drainage survey, have been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the Environment
Agency, Natural England, Surrey County Council and the relevant planning
authority.

10.4

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the detailed
drainage scheme approved under sub-paragraph (3).

###### Buxton Wood Environmental Mitigation Area

11

11.1

No part of the authorised development comprising Work No.25 (improvement,
realignment and widening of the M25 eastbound off-slip at M25 junction 10) is
to open to traffic until details of the mitigation measures to be undertaken
as part of Work No.60 have been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority.

11.2

Details to be approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be substantially in
accordance with the measures described in the environmental statement and the
REAC. The details must include—

11.2.a

a landscaping scheme in accordance with requirement 6;

11.2.b

a timetable for the completion of the mitigation works; and

11.2.c

a scheme for the maintenance, management and monitoring of the mitigation
measures.

11.3

The authorised development must be carried out, maintained, managed and
monitored in accordance with the details approved under sub-paragraph (1)
unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State following consultation with
the relevant planning authority.

###### Stratford Brook Environmental Mitigation Area

12

12.1

No part of the authorised development comprising Work No.33(b) (the new
Stratford Brook underbridge) or Work No.54 (environmental mitigation works on
land adjoining Stratford Brook) is to commence until details of the mitigation
measures to be undertaken have been submitted to and approved in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation with the Environment Agency and
the relevant planning authority.

12.2

Details to be approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be substantially in
accordance with the measures described in the environmental statement, the
REAC and the Water Framework Directive Assessment. The details must include—

12.2.a

a timetable for the completion of the mitigation works; and

12.2.b

a scheme for the maintenance, management and monitoring of the mitigation
measures.

12.3

The authorised development must be carried out, maintained, managed and
monitored in accordance with the details approved under sub-paragraph (1)
unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State following consultation with
the Environment Agency, and under any necessary licences.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

13

13.1

No part of the authorised development involving intrusive ground works is to
commence until for that part a site investigation and risk assessment have
been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the Environment Agency and the relevant planning authority.

13.2

An investigation and assessment under sub-paragraph (1) must include—

13.2.a

details of any existing sources of contamination within the Order limits that
may be affected by the carrying out of the authorised development;

13.2.b

any reasonably required protective measures to ensure that the carrying out of
the authorised development does not make worse any adverse conditions or risks
associated with such existing sources of contamination; and

13.2.c

appropriate remediation strategies and mitigation measures to address any
historic contamination within the Order limits which is shown to be having
significant unacceptable effects on the environment within the context of the
proposed works.

13.3

An investigation and assessment under sub-paragraph (1) must be carried out in
accordance with the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs’ and
the Environment Agency’s ‘Model Procedures for the Management of Land
Contamination’ Contaminated Land Report 11 document.

13.4

The steps and measures identified as necessary for the purposes of carrying
out the authorised development must be implemented in accordance with details
approved under sub-paragraph (1).

13.5

In the event that contaminated material, including groundwater, is found at
any time when carrying out the authorised development, which was not
previously assessed in the environmental statement or a risk assessment
approved under sub-paragraph (1), the undertaker must cease construction in
the vicinity of that contamination and undertake a risk assessment of the
contamination in consultation with the Environment Agency and relevant
planning authority.

13.6

Where the undertaker determines that remediation is necessary, a written
scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be undertaken must be
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the Environment Agency and the relevant planning authority.

13.7

Remedial measures must be carried out in accordance with the scheme approved
under sub-paragraph (6).

###### Archaeology

14

14.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part a
written scheme for the investigation and mitigation of areas of archaeological
interest, reflecting the mitigation measures set out in the environmental
statement and REAC, has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the County Archaeologist.

14.2

A written scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) may include provision for
further sub-written schemes of investigation if required (evaluation or
detailed excavation or watching brief) for any area and any phase of the
works, for which approval must be sought separately in accordance with sub-
paragraph (1).

14.3

A written scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must contain details of the
arrangements and timescales within which the undertaker and the County
Archaeologist will agree the manner in which any further investigation and
recording is to be carried out in the event of any archaeological remains, not
previously identified, being revealed during construction.

14.4

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the written
scheme of investigation approved under sub-paragraph (1).

14.5

In the event of any archaeological remains, not previously identified, being
revealed when carrying out the authorised development, the said remains must
be retained in situ and reported to the County Archaeologist as soon as is
reasonably practicable from the date they are identified. No construction
operations are to take place within 10 metres of the remains for a period of
14 days from the date on which the County Archaeologist is notified, unless
otherwise agreed in writing by the County Archaeologist. Any revealed remains
must be subject to appropriate mitigation to be determined in consultation
with the County Archaeologist, in accordance with the written scheme approved
under sub-paragraph (1) and within the timescales agreed under sub-paragraph
(3).

14.6

If having been notified under sub-paragraph (5) the County Archaeologist
determines in writing that the archaeological remains require further
investigation, no construction operations may resume within 10 metres of the
remains until provision has been made for the further investigation and
recording of the remains, in accordance with details to be approved in writing
by the County Archaeologist within the timescales agreed under sub-paragraph
(3).

14.7

Where the undertaker or the County Archaeologist is of the view that the
revealed remains referred to in sub-paragraph (5) may be of national
significance the findings must be reported to Historic England. No
construction operations may resume within 10 metres of the remains until the
significance of the remains has been determined in consultation with Historic
England and suitable provision is made for their analysis and recording in
accordance with a scheme to be agreed in writing by Historic England.

14.8

On completion of the authorised development suitable resources and provisions
for the long-term storage of the archaeological archive will be agreed with
the County Archaeologist.

14.9

A copy of any analysis, reporting or publication required as part of the
written scheme of investigation approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be
deposited with the Historic Environment Record of the relevant planning
authority within three years of the date of completion of the authorised
development or such other period as may be agreed in writing by the County
Archaeologist.

###### Protected species

15

15.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part,
final pre-construction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by any part of the authorised development.

15.2

In the event that a European or other protected species or nesting birds not
previously identified in the environmental statement are found at any time
when carrying out the authorised development, the undertaker must cease
construction of the relevant part of the works near their location, or any
works within 10m of nesting birds, and report it as soon as practicable to the
Ecological Clerk of Works.

15.3

Construction of the relevant part of the works must not resume until either—

15.3.a

the nesting birds, if relevant, have fledged and the nest is no longer in use;
or

15.3.b

a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding the relevant and
appropriate licence for the species in question, determines that the relevant
works do not require a protected species licence, or

15.3.c

any necessary licences for the protection and mitigation of the species have
been obtained from Natural England.

###### Fencing

16

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
the Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works maintained by or on behalf
of the undertaker except where any departures from that manual are agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State.

###### Restoration and/or landscaping of land used temporarily for construction

17

17.1

Within three months of the authorised development being completed, a scheme
for the restoration and/or landscaping of any Order land used temporarily for
construction purposes, substantially in accordance with the Scheme Layout
Plans and to include a programme for the said restoration and/or landscaping
work, must be submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority.

17.2

The restoration of the land subject to sub-paragraph (1) must be carried out,
maintained, managed and where relevant monitored in accordance with the
approved restoration scheme.

17.3

In so far as the land used temporarily is land within the boundary of the
Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area or within the boundary of the
Ockham and Wisley Commons Site of Special Scientific Interest, the restoration
scheme under sub-paragraph (1) must be submitted to and approved in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority, Surrey County Council and Natural England and must—

17.3.a

make suitable provision for habitat restoration measures to support the
relevant site’s qualifying species and features;

17.3.b

incorporate the measures described in the environmental statement and the
Habitats Regulations Assessment where relevant;

17.3.c

demonstrate how opportunities have been taken to achieve biodiversity gains
and support enhancement of the site’s nature conservation value within the
restoration proposals; and

17.3.d

include a scheme for the maintenance, management and monitoring of the said
land.

17.4

In so far as the land used temporarily is common land or open space, the
restoration scheme under sub-paragraph (1) must make suitable provision for
landscape and access measures to support use of the land as common land or
open space and must include a scheme for the maintenance and management of the
said land. The relevant details must be submitted to and approved in writing
by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and Surrey County Council.

###### Protection of certain tree roots at RHS Garden Wisley

18

No soil level changes (excavation or filling), other works or access of any
sort within the BS5837 and its provisions relating to root protection areas of
the trees and as shown on the RHS Tree Protection Plan, are to be undertaken
unless an arboricultural method statement describing the works or access and
showing their location on a plan has been approved in writing by the Secretary
of State following consultation with the owner of RHS Garden Wisley. The works
shall be undertaken in accordance with the approved arboricultural method
statement.

###### Works in the village of Ripley

19

19.1

No part of the development comprising Work No.33 (‘the Wisley Lane Diversion’)
is to open for traffic until a scheme for the management of traffic flows
along the B2215 through the village of Ripley has been submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State following consultation with the
local highway authority and the local planning authority.

19.2

Unless proposed by the undertaker and agreed in writing by the local highway
authority, the scheme to be submitted to the Secretary of State must—

19.2.a

comprise two gateway features, two puffin crossings, speed cushions and speed
tables, or similar measures, all to be provided along a 1km stretch of the
B2215 that lies between the existing village entrance signs;

19.2.b

contain a cost estimate for the design and construction of the proposed works
and specify arrangements by which either—

19.2.b.i

the undertaker will provide funds to the local highway authority to cover the
approved cost (being either the cost estimate as referred to above or if the
Secretary of State considers that another figure is appropriate then that
other figure) of the local highway authority designing and constructing the
approved works; or

19.2.b.ii

the undertaker will undertake the design and construction of the approved
works at its own expense up to the value of the approved cost pursuant to an
appropriate agreement with the local highway authority.

19.3

The scheme to be submitted to the Secretary of State must include a timetable
for implementation and completion of the approved scheme for the management of
traffic flows along the B2215 through the village of Ripley and the works must
be implemented and completed in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

20

With respect to any requirement that stipulates the authorised development
must be carried out in accordance with the details approved under this
Schedule, the approved details are taken to include any amendments that may
subsequently be approved in accordance with the provisions of the relevant
requirement.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

21

21.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

21.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

21.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 23; or

21.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

21.2

Subject to sub-paragraphs (3) and (4), in the event that the Secretary of
State does not determine an application within the period set out in sub-
paragraph (1), the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of
the application (without any condition or qualification) at the end of that
period.

21.3

Where—

21.3.a

An application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement in this Order;

21.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph (1); and

21.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report that considers it likely that the
subject matter of the application is to give rise to materially new or
materially different environmental effects in comparison with those reported
in the environmental statement,

then the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State
at the end of that period.

21.4

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to an application made to the Secretary of
State under requirement 8 (Thames Basin Heaths Special Protection Area (SPA)
Compensatory Habitat Creation and Enhancement Measures) and requirement 17(3)
(restoration and/or landscaping of land used temporarily for construction).

21.5

Where approval or agreement must be obtained under any of the requirements
included in this Schedule, the request or submission for approval must be in
writing and approval or agreement must be given in writing.

###### Pre-application consultation

22

22.1

With respect to any requirement which requires details to be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval under this Schedule, the details submitted
must be accompanied by a summary report setting out the consultation
undertaken by the undertaker to inform the details submitted and an account as
to how the undertaker has had regard to the responses received.

22.2

At the time of submitting an application to the Secretary of State, the
undertaker must provide a copy of the summary report to the requirement
consultees referred to in the requirement under which approval is being
sought.

22.3

The undertaker must ensure that any consultation responses are reflected in
the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval under this
Schedule, but only where it is appropriate, reasonable and feasible to do so,
taking into account considerations including, but not limited to, cost and
engineering practicality.

22.4

Where the consultation responses are not reflected in the details submitted to
the Secretary of State for approval, the undertaker must state in the summary
report referred to under sub-paragraph (1) the reasons why the consultation
responses have not been reflected in the submitted details.

###### Further information

23

23.1

In relation to any application to which this Schedule applies, or part of any
application, the Secretary of State has the right to request such further
information from the undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of
State to consider the application.

23.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates. In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such
notification within this 21 day period the Secretary of State is deemed to
have sufficient information to consider the application and is not
subsequently entitled to request further information without the prior
agreement of the undertaker.

23.3

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 21 (applications made under requirements) and in this
paragraph.

23.4

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not a bank holiday under section 1 (bank holidays) of the Banking and
Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

###### Register of requirements

24

24.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

24.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

24.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

25

If before this Order came into force the undertaker or any other person has
taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance with any
provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into account
for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they would
have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this Order
came into force.

  CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 13 and 17

##### SPECIAL ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     M25 eastbound Improved M25 eastbound
carriageway, as shown between points 10/1 and 10/2 on Sheet 10 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 40 metres and between point 10/3 on
Sheet 10 and point 18/2 on Sheet 18 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 5,580 metres. M25 eastbound on-slip at M25 junction 10
Altered slip road, as shown between point 5/20 on Sheet 5 and point 14/2 on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 955
metres. M25 eastbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 Improved slip road, as shown
between point 11/2 on Sheet 11 and point 5/12 on Sheet 5 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 900 metres. M25 westbound Improved
M25 westbound carriageway, as shown between point 18/1 on Sheet 18 and point
10/4 on Sheet 10 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising
6,050 metres. M25 westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 Improved slip road, as
shown between point 5/9 on Sheet 5 and point 11/1 on Sheet 11 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 1,225 metres. M25 westbound off-
slip at M25 junction 10 Altered slip road, as shown between point 14/1 on
Sheet 14 and point 5/21 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 800 metres. A3 northbound to M25 westbound dedicated free-
flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 New slip lane, as shown between point 5/3 on
Sheet 5 and point 12/5 on Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 205 metres. M25 eastbound to A3 northbound dedicated free-
flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 New slip lane, as shown between point 12/4
on Sheet 12 and point 5/15 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 225 metres. A3 southbound to M25 eastbound dedicated free-
flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 New slip lane, as shown between point 5/18
on Sheet 5 and point 13/1 on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 210 metres. M25 westbound to A3 southbound dedicated free-
flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 New slip lane, as shown between point 13/2
on Sheet 13 and point 5/4 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 250 metres.

##### TRUNK ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     M25 junction 10, circulatory
carriageway For the entire extent of the altered M25 junction 10 circulatory
carriageway, as shown between points 5/6 and 5/7 on Sheet 5 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 725 metres. A3 northbound Improved
A3 northbound carriageway, as shown between point 1/1 on Sheet 1 and point
8/12 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising
5,325 metres. A3 northbound on-slip at the A3 Ockham Park junction Improved
slip road, as shown between points 1/15 and 1/16 on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 90 metres and between point 1/16 on
Sheet 1 and point 2/2 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 650 metres. A3 northbound off-slip at M25 junction 10
Improved slip road, as shown between point 4/11 on Sheet 4 and point 5/8 on
Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 315 metres.
A3 northbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 Improved slip road, as shown between
point 5/14 on Sheet 5 and point 6/2 on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans, comprising 465 metres. A3 northbound off-slip at the A3
Painshill junction Improved slip road, as shown between point 7/3 on Sheet 7
and point 8/5 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans,
comprising 685 metres. A3 northbound on-slip at the A3 Painshill junction
Improved slip road, as shown between points 8/10 and 8/11 on Sheet 8 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 120 metres. A3 southbound
Improved A3 southbound carriageway, as shown between point 8/13 on Sheet 8 and
point 1/2 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans,
comprising 5,530 metres. A3 southbound off-slip at the A3 Painshill junction
Improved slip road, as shown between points 8/14 and 8/15 on Sheet 8 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 245 metres. A3 southbound
on-slip at the A3 Painshill junction Improved slip road, as shown between
point 8/19 on Sheet 8 and point 7/2 on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans, comprising 785 metres. A3 southbound off-slip at M25
junction 10 Altered slip road, as shown between point 6/1 on Sheet 6 and point
5/19 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 305
metres. A3 southbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 Altered slip road, as shown
between point 5/5 on Sheet 5 and point 4/1 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans, comprising 870 metres. A3 southbound off-slip at the
A3 Ockham Park junction Improved slip road, as shown between point 2/1 on
Sheet 2 and point 1/22 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 380 metres.

##### CLASSIFIED ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     A Roads A3 Painshill junction (A245)
For the entire extent of the improved Painshill junction, as shown between
points 8/3 and 8/4 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans,
comprising 430 metres. A3 northbound to A245 westbound dedicated slip road at
the A3 Painshill junction New slip road, as shown between points 8/1 and 8/2
on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 180
metres. A245 Byfleet Road westbound Improved A245 westbound carriageway, as
shown between point 8/6 on Sheet 8 and point 9/1 on Sheet 9 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 540 metres. A245 Byfleet Road
eastbound Improved A245 eastbound carriageway, as shown between point 9/2 and
9/4 on Sheet 9 and between point 8/27 and 8/9 on Sheet 8 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 190 metres. A245 Portsmouth Road
(eastbound) A245 eastbound carriageway at the tie-in with the improved
Painshill junction, as shown between points 8/16 and 8/17 on Sheet 8 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 170 metres. A245
Portsmouth Road (westbound) A245 westbound carriageway at the tie-in with the
improved Painshill junction, as shown between points 8/17 and 8/18 on Sheet 8
of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 170 metres. B Roads
A3 Ockham Park junction (B2039) For the entire extent of the improved A3
Ockham Park junction circulatory carriageway forming part of the B2039, as
shown between points 1/20 and 1/21 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans, comprising 420 metres. B2115 Portsmouth Road At the tie-in
with the A3 Ockham Park junction, as shown between points 1/6 and 1/7 on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 235 metres. B2039
Ockham Road North At the tie-in with the A3 Ockham Park junction, as shown
between points 1/27 and 1/28 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans, comprising 60 metres. B2039 At the tie-in between the A3 Ockham
Park junction circulatory carriageway and the Mill Lane junction, as shown
between points 1/16 and 1/17 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans, comprising 75 metres. B365 Seven Hills Road (north of the A245
Byfleet Road junction) Improved B365 Seven Hills Road at the tie-in with the
A245 Byfleet Road junction, as shown between points 9/9 and 9/10 on Sheet 9 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 110 metres. Classified
unnumbered roads Old Lane At the tie-in, as shown between points 4/2 and 4/3
on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 145
metres and as shown between points 24/3 and 24/4 on Sheet 24 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising 145 metres.

##### UNCLASSIFIED ROADS

      (1)   Highway   (2)   Extent     Mill Lane At the tie-in with the
improved B2039 Ockham Park junction, as shown between points 1/18 and 1/19 on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 55 metres.
Wisley Lane New and improved road, as shown between point 1/25 on Sheet 1 and
point 20/3 on Inset A of Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, comprising 1,905 metres. Seven Hills Road (south of the A245 Byfleet
Road junction and currently classified as B365) Improved road and road to be
declassified, as shown between point 7/1 on Sheet 7 and point 9/8 on Sheet 9
of the streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 190 metres. A245
Byfleet Road westbound to Seven Hills Road dedicated slip-road New road, as
shown between points 9/6 and 9/7 on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans, comprising 40 metres. Elm Lane Improved unclassified road, as
shown between point 23/1 on Sheet 23 and point 24/1 on Sheet 24 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising 240 metres. Byway Open to
All Traffic – Byway 525 (Elm Lane) Improved Byway Open to All Traffic, as
shown between points 24/1 and 24/2 on Sheet 24 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans, comprising 565 metres.

##### SPEED LIMITS

      (1)   Road name and number   (2)   Extent   (3)   Speed Limit
Motorways and Trunk Roads M25 junction 10 circulatory carriageway The whole
length of the altered circulatory carriageway at M25 junction 10, for a total
distance of 725 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing
limit)   M25 M25 eastbound Along the length of the improved M25 eastbound
carriageway, for a total distance of 5,580 metres, as shown on Sheets 3, 5, 7
and 9 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit
(70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25 eastbound on-slip at M25 junction
10 Along the length of the altered slip road, from its diverge from the M25
junction 10 circulatory carriageway to its merge with the M25 eastbound
carriageway, for a total distance of 955 metres, as shown on Sheets 3 and 7 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70
miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25 eastbound off-slip at M25 junction 10
Along the length of the improved slip road, from its diverge from the M25
eastbound carriageway to its merge with the M25 junction 10 circulatory
carriageway, for a total distance of 900 metres, as shown on Sheets 3 and 5 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70
miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25 westbound Along the length of the
improved M25 westbound carriageway, for a total distance of 6,050 metres, as
shown on Sheets 3, 5, 7 and 9 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25
westbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 Along the length of the improved slip
road, from its diverge from the M25 junction 10 circulatory carriageway to its
merge with the M25 westbound carriageway, for a total distance of 1,225
metres, as shown on Sheets 3 and 5 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   M25
westbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 Along the length of the improved slip
road, from its diverge from the M25 westbound carriageway to its merge with
the M25 junction 10 circulatory carriageway, for a total distance of 800
metres, as shown on Sheets 3 and 7 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   New
dedicated free-flow slip lanes at M25 junction 10 A3 northbound to M25
westbound dedicated free-flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 Along the length of
the new slip road, from its diverge from the A3 northbound off-slip to its
merge with the M25 westbound on-slip, for a total distance of 205 metres, as
shown on Sheet 3 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National
speed limit   (70 miles per hour)   M25 eastbound to A3 northbound dedicated
free-flow slip lane at M25 junction 10 Along the length of the new slip road,
from its diverge from the M25 eastbound off-slip to its merge with the A3
northbound on-slip, for a total distance of 225 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70
miles per hour)   A3 southbound to M25 eastbound dedicated free-flow slip lane
at M25 junction 10 Along the length of the new slip road, from its diverge
from the A3 southbound off-slip to its merge with the M25 eastbound on-slip,
for a total distance of 210 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour)   M25
westbound to A3 southbound dedicated free-flow slip lane at M25 junction 10
Along the length of the new slip road, from its diverge from the M25 westbound
off-slip to its merge with the A3 southbound on-slip, for a total distance of
250 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour)   A3 A3 northbound Along the
length of the improved A3 northbound carriageway for a total distance of 5,325
metres, as shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing
limit)   A3 northbound on-slip at A3 Ockham Park junction (south of Mill Lane
junction) Along the length of the improved slip road from its diverge from the
Ockham Park junction circulatory carriageway to the Mill Lane junction, for a
total distance of 90 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A3 northbound on-slip at A3
Ockham Park junction (north of Mill Lane junction) Along the length of the
improved slip road, north of the Mill Lane junction to its merge with the A3
northbound carriageway, for a total distance of 650 metres, as shown on Sheets
1 and 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed
limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 northbound off-slip at M25
junction 10 Along the length of the improved slip road, from its diverge from
the A3 northbound carriageway to its merge with the M25 junction 10
circulatory carriageway, for a total distance of 315 metres, as shown on Sheet
3 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit
(70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 northbound on-slip at M25 junction
10 Along the length of the improved slip road, from its diverge from the M25
junction 10 circulatory carriageway to its merge with the A3 northbound
carriageway, for a total distance of 465 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles
per hour, as existing limit)   A3 northbound off-slip at A3 Painshill junction
Along the length of the improved slip road from its diverge from the A3
northbound carriageway to point E, for a total distance of 500 metres, as
shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National
speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 northbound off-slip
at A3 Painshill junction Along the length of the improved slip road, from
point E to its merge with the Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, for
a total distance of 185 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A3 northbound on-slip at A3
Painshill junction Along the length of the improved slip road, from its
diverge from the A3 Painshill junction circulatory carriageway to point F, for
a total distance of 60 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A3 northbound on-slip at A3
Painshill junction Along the length of the improved slip road, from point F to
the DCO boundary, for a total distance of 60 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70
miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 southbound Along the length of the
improved A3 southbound carriageway for a total distance of 5,530 metres, as
shown on Sheets 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3
southbound off-slip at A3 Painshill junction Along the length of the improved
slip road from its diverge from the A3 southbound carriageway to point G, for
a total distance of 115 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as
existing limit)   A3 southbound off-slip at A3 Painshill junction Along the
length of the improved slip road, from point G to its merge with the A3
Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, for a total distance of 130
metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
40 miles per hour A3 southbound on-slip at A3 Painshill junction Along the
length of the improved slip road from its diverge from the A3 Painshill
junction circulatory carriageway to point H, for a total distance of 350
metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
40 miles per hour A3 southbound on-slip at A3 Painshill junction Along the
length of the improved slip road, from point H to its merge with the A3
southbound carriageway, for a total distance of 435 metres, as shown on Sheet
4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit
(70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 southbound off-slip at M25
junction 10 Along the length of the altered slip road, from its diverge from
the A3 southbound carriageway to its merge with the M25 junction 10
circulatory carriageway, for a total distance of 305 metres, as shown on Sheet
3 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit
(70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 southbound on-slip at M25 Junction
10 Along the length of the altered slip road, from its diverge from the M25
junction 10 circulatory carriageway to its merge with the A3 southbound
carriageway, for a total distance of 870 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. National speed limit   (70 miles
per hour, as existing limit)   A3 southbound off-slip at A3 Ockham Park
junction Along the length of the improved slip road, from its diverge from the
A3 southbound carriageway to point A, for a total distance of 270 metres, as
shown on Sheets 1and 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
National speed limit   (70 miles per hour, as existing limit)   A3 southbound
off-slip at A3 Ockham Park junction Along the length of the improved slip
road, from point A to its merge with the Ockham Park junction circulatory
carriageway, for a total distance of 110 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A Roads A3
Painshill junction The whole length of the improved circulatory carriageway at
the Painshill junction, for a total distance of 430 metres, as shown on Sheet
4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A3
northbound to A245 westbound dedicated slip lane at the A3 Painshill junction
Along the length of the new slip road, from its diverge from the A3 northbound
off-slip to its merge with the A245 westbound carriageway, for a total
distance of 180 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A245 Byfleet Road westbound Along the
length of the improved A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway from its
diverge from the A3 Painshill junction circulatory carriageway to point J, for
a total distance of 540 metres, as shown on Sheet4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A245 Byfleet Road eastbound Along
the length of the improved A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway, from point
J to its merge with the Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, for a
total distance of 545 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A245 Portsmouth Road eastbound
The A245 Portsmouth Road eastbound carriageway at the tie-in with the improved
Painshill junction, for a total distance of 170 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of
the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour A245
Portsmouth Road westbound A245 Portsmouth Road westbound carriageway at the
tie-in with the improved Painshill junction, for a total distance of 170
metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
40 miles per hour B Roads Ockham Park junction (B2039) The whole length of the
improved circulatory carriageway at the Ockham Park junction, for a total
distance of 420 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. 40 miles per hour (as existing limit) B2115 Portsmouth Road
Along the length of the improved B2115 at its tie-in with the A3 Ockham Park
junction, for a total distance of 235 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour (as existing limit)
B2039 Ockham Road North Along the length of the improved B2039 Ockham Road
North at its tie-in with the A3 Ockham Park junction, for a total distance of
60 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. 40 miles per hour (as existing limit) B2039 (A3 Ockham Park junction to
Mill Lane junction) Along the length of the improved B2039 between its
junction with Mill Lane and the A3 Ockham Park junction circulatory
carriageway, for a total distance of 90 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour B365 Seven Hills
Road   (north of the A245 Byfleet Road junction)   See also entry for Seven
Hills Road below.   At the tie-in with the A245 Byfleet Road junction, for a
total distance of 40 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour (as existing limit) Classified
unnumbered roads Old Lane At the tie-in with the A3 southbound on-slip at M25
junction 10, for a total distance of 130 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans; and at the tie-in with improved
Byway Open to All Traffic 525 (Elm Lane), for a total distance of 80 metres,
as shown on Sheet 24 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40
miles per hour (as existing limit) Unclassified roads Mill Lane At the tie-in
with the improved B2039 Ockham Park junction and the A3 northbound on-slip,
for a total distance of 55 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. National Speed Limit (60 miles per hour, as
existing limit) Wisley Lane diversion Along the length of the new Wisley Lane
diversion, from its diverge from the A3 Ockham Park junction circulatory
carriageway to point B, for a total distance of 770 metres, as shown on Sheets
1 and 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 40 miles per hour
Wisley Lane Diversion/realignment Along the length of the diverted, realigned
and improved Wisley Lane from point B to point C, for a total distance of
1,140 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations
plans. 30 miles per hour Elm Lane (and including Byway 525 – Byway Open to All
Traffic) Along the length of Elm Lane from point D to point E, to include that
part of Elm Lane which is classified as a Byway Open to All Traffic (Byway
525), for a total distance of 785 metres, as shown on Sheets 2 and 8 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. 20 miles per hour A245 Byfleet
Road westbound to Seven Hills Road (south) dedicated slip road Along the
length of the new slip road from its diverge from the A245 westbound
carriageway to its merge with Seven Hills Road, for a total distance of 40
metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
20 miles per hour Seven Hills Road (south of the A245 Byfleet Road junction
and currently classified as B365) Along the length of Seven Hills Road from
its junction with the A245 Byfleet Road southwards to point I, for a total
distance of 170 metres, as shown on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. 20 miles per hour

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

      (1)   Road name and number   (2)   Extent of Regulation   (3)   Measures
Trunk Roads A3 northbound carriageway From a point 220m south of the Ockham
Park South Underbridge, as shown by point 1/1 on Sheet 1 of the speed limits
and traffic regulations plans, north for a distance of 5200 metres, to the
junction with the on-slip from the A245 (Painshill Junction), as shown by
point 4/5 on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans.
Prohibition of pedestrians.   Prohibition of cyclists.   Prohibition of ridden
or accompanied horses.   A3 northbound on-slip at the A3 Ockham Park junction
From the junction with Mill Lane, as shown by point 1/2 on Sheet 1 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans, north for a distance of 645
metres, to the junction with the A3 northbound mainline, as shown by point 2/1
on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. Prohibition of
pedestrians.   Prohibition of cyclists.   Prohibition of ridden or accompanied
horses.   A3 southbound carriageway From the junction with the off-slip to the
A245 (Painshill Junction), as shown by point 4/6 on Sheet 4 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans, south for a distance of 5405 metres, to
a point 220m south of the Ockham Park South Underbridge, as shown by point 1/3
on Sheet 1 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. Prohibition of
pedestrians.   Prohibition of cyclists.   Prohibition of ridden or accompanied
horses.   A3 southbound on-slip at the A3 Painshill junction From the junction
with Heyswood Camp Site access road, as shown by point 4/7 on Sheet 4 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans, south for a distance of 605
metres, to the junction with the A3 southbound mainline, as shown by point 4/8
on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic regulations plans. Prohibition of
pedestrians.   Prohibition of cyclists.   Prohibition of ridden or accompanied
horses.   A Roads A245 Byfleet Road From its junction with the A3 roundabout
circulatory, as shown by point 4/1 on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans, northwest for a distance of 495 metres, to its junction
with B365 Seven Hills Road, as shown by point 4/2 on Sheet 4 of the speed
limits and traffic regulations plans. Clearway (to include verge and hard
strips). B Roads B365 Seven Hills Road At the junction with the A245 Byfleet
Road Only left turns are permitted for southbound traffic from B365 Seven
Hills Road, as shown by point 4/4 on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. Prohibition of Entry (Left turn only). Unclassified Road
Wisley Lane The whole length of both kerb lines from Ockham Park junction
(B2039) to a point 125 metres north of the access to RHS Garden Wisley, as
shown between points 1/4 and 2/4 on Sheets 1 and 2 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. Prohibition of waiting (at any time). Elm Lane
(Byway Open to All Traffic) Improved section of the Byway Open to All Traffic
from its junction with Old Lane, west for a distance of 555 metres, as shown
between points 2/10 on Sheet 2 and 8/1 on Sheet 8 of the speed limits and
traffic regulations plans. Prohibition of waiting (at any time).

##### REVOCATIONS AND VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

      (1)   Road name and number   (2)   Title of order   (3)   Revocations or
Variations     A3 layby north of Wisley Lane The A3 Trunk Road (Wisley)
(Prohibition of Waiting) Order 2003 Order to be revoked in its entirety. For
location, refer to point 2/8 on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. A3 Ockham Common Lay-by The A3 Trunk Road (Ockham Common
Lay-By) (Waiting Restrictions) Order 2004 Order to be revoked in its entirety.
For location, refer to point 2/9 on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. A245 Byfleet Road eastbound and westbound The Borough of
Elmbridge (Portsmouth Road/Byfleet Road) (Speed Limit) Order 1993 Order to be
varied from National Speed Limit to 40 miles per hour between the junction of
A245 Byfleet Road with Seven Hills Road, and a point 95 metres west of Convent
Lane, including the Painshill junction circulatory carriageway, as shown
between points 4/3 and 4/9 on Sheet 4 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans. Wisley Road The Surrey County Council, Various Roads in the
Parished Areas Within The Borough of Guildford (Consolidation of Waiting
Restrictions and Street Parking Places) Order 2004 Order to be revoked between
the junction of Wisley Lane and the northbound A3, and the tie-in with the
Wisley Lane diversion, as shown between points 2/2 and 2/3 on Sheet 2 of the
speed limits and traffic regulations plans. Elm Lane The Surrey County
Council, Various Roads in the Parished Areas Within The Borough of Guildford
(Consolidation of Waiting Restrictions and Street Parking Places) Order 2004
Order to be revoked between the junction of Elm Lane and the southbound A3,
and the point just west of Orchard Cottage access, between points 2/5 and 2/6
and inclusive of point 2/7 on Sheet 2 of the speed limits and traffic
regulations plans.

##### OTHER PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY

      (1)   Public right of way   (2)   Extent     Cycle track 65 metres of
cycle track connecting the A3 northbound with the B2115 Portsmouth Road, as
shown between points 1/3 and 1/4 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Footway 15 metres of footway in verge of the B2115 Portsmouth
Road, as shown between points 1/5 and 1/33 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Non-segregated footway/cycle track 310 metres of non-
segregated footway/cycle track in verge of the B2215 Portsmouth Road and B2039
Ockham Park junction, as shown between points 1/5 and 1/8 on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, with a signal controlled toucan
crossing facility at point 1/e as shown on Sheet 1. Non-segregated
footway/cycle track 25 metres of non-segregated footway/cycle track at the
tie-in between the B2115 Portsmouth Road and the A3 Ockham Park junction
circulatory carriageway, as shown between points 1/9 and 1/10 on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans, with a signal controlled toucan
crossing facility located at point 1/a as shown on Sheet 1. Non-segregated
footway/cycle track 370 metres of non-segregated footway/cycle track in verge
of the B2215 Portsmouth Road and B2039 Ockham Park junction, as shown between
points 1/11 and 1/12 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans, with signal controlled toucan crossing facilities located at points
1/b, 1/c and 1/d as shown on Sheet 1. Footway 70 metres of footway in the
verge of the A3 Ockham Park junction and the A3 northbound on-slip, as shown
between points 1/13 and 1/14 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Bridleway 50 metres of bridleway in verge of the A3 Ockham Park
junction and the B2039 Ockham Road North, as shown between points 1/12 and
1/26 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footway 75
metres of footway in verge of the A3 southbound off-slip at the Ockham Park
junction, as shown between points 1/23 and 1/24 on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 1,340 metres of bridleway in verge,
as shown between point 1/12 on Sheet 1 and point 20/5 on Sheet 20 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath 105 metres of footpath, as
shown between points 1/29 and 1/31 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Bridleway 320 metres of bridleway, as shown between point
2/3 on Sheet 2 and point 23/1 on Sheet 23 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans, to include reclassification of 175 metres of unclassified road
(Elm Lane) to bridleway, as shown between point 2/11 on Sheet 2 and point 23/1
on Sheet 23 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath 130
metres of footpath, as shown between points 2/4 and 2/7 on Sheet 2 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans, comprising the reclassification of
130 metres of an existing unclassified road (Elm Lane) as footpath. Footpath
30 metres of footpath, as shown between points 2/5 and 2/7 on Sheet 2 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath 5,855 metres of footpath, as
shown between point 2/7 on Sheet 2 and point 3/2 on Sheet 3 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Footpath 105 metres of footpath, as shown
between point 2/10 on Sheet 2 and point 3/1 on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Bridleway 845 metres of bridleway, as shown between
point 4/4 on Sheet 4 and point 12/6 on Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Bridleway 20 metres of bridleway, as shown between points
4/4 and 4/6, as shown on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Bridleway 180 metres of bridleway, as shown between points 4/7 and 4/8
on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath 75 metres
of footpath, as shown between points 4/8 and 4/9 on Sheet 4 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 1,100 metres of bridleway, as shown
between point 5/22 on Sheet 5 and point 14/3 on Sheet 14 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 815 metres of bridleway, as shown
between point 5/35 on Sheet 5 and point 13/6 on Sheet 13 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans, comprising the reclassification of 775 metres
of unclassified road (Pointers Road) to bridleway. Footpath 370 metres of
footpath, as shown between point 6/3 on Sheet 6 and point 28/1 on Sheet 28 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 1,300 metres of
bridleway, as shown between point 6/5 on Sheet 6 and point 12/1 on Sheet 12 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 860 metres of
bridleway, as shown between point 6/6 on Sheet 6 and point 13/5 on Sheet 13 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 4,265 metres of
bridleway, as shown between point 7/1 on Sheet 7 and point 20/5 on Sheet 20 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans, to include the reclassification
of 140 metres of Seven Hills Road from B365 to bridleway. Non-segregated
footway/cycle track 140 metres of non-segregated footway/cycle track in the
verge of the A3 Painshill junction roundabout, as shown between points 8/24
and 8/26 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Non-
segregated footway/cycle track 550 metres of non-segregated footway/cycle
track in the verge of the A245 Byfleet Road westbound carriageway westbound
carriageway, as shown between point 8/24 on Sheet 8 and point 9/11 on Sheet 9
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath 175 metres of
footpath adjacent to the A3 southbound on-slip at the A3 Painshill junction,
as shown between points 8/20 and 8/23 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Footway 12 metres of footway between the new dedicated slip
road connecting the A245 Byfleet Road (westbound) with Seven Hills Road
(south) and the A245 Byfleet Road/Seven Hills Road junction, as shown between
points 9/12 and 9/13 on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Footway 130 metres of footway in verge of A245 Byfleet Road
(eastbound), as shown between points 9/3 and 9/4 on Sheet 9 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 445 metres of bridleway, as shown
between points 11/3 and 11/4 on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Footpath 135 metres of footpath, as shown between points 20/1
and 20/2 on Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Byway 525
(Byway Open to All Traffic) improvement 565 metres of Byway Open to All
Traffic, as shown between points 24/1 and 24/2 on Sheet 24 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Footpath 558 metres of footpath, as shown
between points 26/1 and 26/2 on Sheet 26 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Footpath 12 metres of footpath, as shown between points 26/3 and
26/4 on Sheet 26 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bridleway 855
metres of bridleway, as shown between point 27/1 on Sheet 27 and point 28/2 on
Sheet 28 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS AND PROVISION
OF NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

Articles 15 and 26

##### HIGHWAYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE STOPPED UP OR EXTINGUISHED AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Highway/public right of way to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of
stopping up   (3)   New highway/public right of way to be provided     Non-
segregated footway/cycle track in the verge of the A3 Ockham Park junction (to
be extinguished) For a distance of 90 metres, as shown between points 1/23 and
1/32 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos.
31(g) and 31(h) Non-segregated footway/cycle track in the verge of the A3
southbound carriageway, to include four crossings at M25 junction 10 (to be
extinguished) For a distance of 4,550 metres, as shown between point 1/24 on
Sheet 1 and point 8/22 on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans and for a distance of 65 metres as shown between points 8/20 and 8/21
Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos. 33, 35,
42(c) and 44(c) Footpath 13A For a distance of 130 metres, as shown between
points 1/29 and 1/34 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work Nos. 32 and 33 Footpath 13 For a distance of 165 metres, as shown
between points 1/30 and 1/34 on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Work Nos. 32 and 33 Elm Lane (unclassified public road) For a
distance of 330 metres, as shown between point 2/6 on Sheet 2 and point 23/1
on Sheet 23 of the streets, rights of way and access plans and for a distance
of 25 metres as shown between points 2/4 and 2/11 on Sheet 2 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Work No.50   Note: Existing highway to be
reclassified in part as footpath and in part as bridleway.   Wisley Lane
(classified unnumbered road) For a distance of 240 metres, as shown between
point 2/8 on Sheet 2 and point 20/4 on Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Work No.33 Footway over Wisley Footbridge (to be
extinguished) For a distance of 140 metres, as shown between points 2/9 and
2/12 on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.33
Footpath 7 For a distance of 195 metres, as shown between point 2/9 on Sheet 2
and point 20/1 on Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way and access plans and
including 10 metres of footpath between points 2/13 and 2/14 as shown on Sheet
2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.33(g) Footpath 14
For a distance of 95 metres, as shown between points 3/2 and 3/3 on Sheet 3 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos. 34 and 36 Footpath 17
(to include Footpath 17 Cockcrow Overbridge) For a distance of 160 metres, as
shown between points 4/9 and 4/10 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Work No.35(b) Non-segregated footway/cycle track in the verge of
the A3 northbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 including crossing over slip
road (to be extinguished) For a distance of 245 metres, as shown between
points 5/1 and 5/2 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Work No.35 A3 northbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 For a distance of 45
metres, as shown between points 5/10 and 5/11 on Sheet 5 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Work No.14 M25 circulatory carriageway and
associated footways/cycle tracks on west side of junction 10 roundabout, to
include tie-ins to M25 westbound on-slip and M25 eastbound off-slip and three
crossings For a distance of 225 metres, as shown between points 5/23 and 5/24
on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos. 7 and 35
M25 circulatory carriageway and associated footways/cycle tracks on east side
of junction 10 roundabout For a distance of 225 metres, as shown between
points 5/25 and 5/26 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work Nos. 7 and 35 Non-segregated footway/cycle track in the verge of
the A3 northbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 (to be extinguished) For a
distance of 560 metres, as shown between point 5/13 on Sheet 5 and point 6/5
on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.35 A3
northbound on-slip at M25 junction 10 For a distance of 50 metres, as shown
between points 5/27 and 5/28 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Work No.14 A3 southbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 For a
distance of 115 metres, as shown between points 5/29 and 5/30 on Sheet 5 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.19 M25 eastbound on-slip
at M25 junction 10 For a distance of 280 metres, as shown between point 5/31
on Sheet 5 and point 13/3 on Sheet 13 on the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work No.26 M25 westbound off-slip at M25 junction 10 For a distance of
325 metres, as shown between point 5/32 on Sheet 5 and point 13/4 on Sheet 13
on the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.28 A3 southbound on-
slip at M25 junction 10 For a distance of 90 metres, as shown between points
5/33 and 5/34 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work
No.4 Bridleway 12 For a distance of 360 metres, as shown between points 5/16
and 5/17 on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos.
35, 38 and 39 Footpath 12 For a distance of 130 metres, as shown between point
5/16 on Sheet 5 and point 28/1 on Sheet 28 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Work Nos. 35 and 38 and the upgrade of an existing permissive
path as shown between point 6/3 on Sheet 6 and point 28/1 on Sheet 28 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Footway A245 Byfleet Road (westbound)
(to be extinguished) For a distance of 30 metres, as shown between points 9/6
and 9/13 on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos.
42(c) and 42(f) Bridleway 8 at Clearmount Bridge For a distance of 300 metres,
as shown between point 11/4 on Sheet 11 and point 12/2 on Sheet 12 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans and for a distance of 175 metres as
shown between point 11/5 on Sheet 11 and point 12/1 on Sheet 12 on the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.49 Footpath 10 (at Clearmount
Bridge) For a distance of 15 metres, as shown between points 12/7 and 12/8 on
Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.49 Footpath
11 at Clearmount Bridge For a distance of 125 metres, as shown between points
12/2 and 12/3 on Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work
No.49 Bridleway 8 at Wisley Lane For a distance of 55 metres, as shown between
points 20/6 and 20/7 on Sheet 20 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work No.35

##### HIGHWAYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY TO BE STOPPED UP OR EXTINGUISHED AND FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Highway/public right of way to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of
stopping up   (3)   Notes     Footway (to be extinguished) For a distance of
20 metres, as shown between points 2/15 and 2/16 on Sheet 2 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. This footway currently provides access to a
bus stop on the A3 – this bus stop is to be relocated under Work No.33(f) and
no substitute is therefore required. Footpath 9 For a distance of 30 metres,
as shown between points 3/4 and 3/5 on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. This section of Footpath 9 terminates at the A3 boundary, as
shown at point 3/5 on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans
and currently has no connection with any other right of way at this point.
Footpath 9 will now terminate at Work No.35, which will provide a connection
to the Cockcrow Overbridge. Footpath 10 (near Cockcrow Bridge)   Also see
entry for Footpath 10 at Clearmount Bridge in Part 1 above   For a distance of
70 metres, as shown between points 4/4 and 4/5 on Sheet 4 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. This section of Footpath 10 terminates at the
A3 boundary, as shown at point 4/5 on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans and currently has no connection with any other right of way
at this point. Footpath 10 will now terminate at Work No.35 which will provide
a connection to the Cockcrow Overbridge. Pointers Road For a distance of 815
metres, as shown between point 5/35 on Sheet 5 and point 13/6 on Sheet 13 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. This section of unclassified
public road is not currently accessible to vehicles. This section is to be
reclassified as public bridleway – Work No.37. Old Byfleet Road (unclassified
highway) For a distance of 300 metres, as shown between point 8/25 on Sheet 8
and point 9/5 on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Old
Byfleet Road is a cul de sac and provides access to Feltonfleet School only.
Work No.44(c) will provide a substitute route for non-motorised users.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP AND FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Private means of access to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of
stopping up   (3)   New private means of access to be substituted     Access
to RHS Garden Wisley, Wisley Lane At point A, as shown on Sheet 2 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.33(f) Access to Ockham Bites
Café and Car Park, Old Lane, Cobham At points B and C, as shown on Sheet 4 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.35(d) Access to Hut Hill
Cottage, Pond Farm and the Birchmere Scout Camp, Wisley At point D as shown on
Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos. 35(b), 35(c)
and 35(d) Access to Court Close Farm At point F as shown on Sheet 7 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Work No.40 Access to the Heyswood
Girl Guide Camp At point F as shown on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Work No.40 Access to Long Orchard Farm, No. 1 Farm Cottage,
No. 3 Farm Cottage, Long Orchard House, Fir Tree Cottage and The Coach House
At point G, as shown on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work Nos. 35, 35(h) and 35(i) Access to the Starbucks Drive Thru Cafe
At point H, as shown on Sheet 7 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Work Nos. 35 and 35(j) Access to New Farm At point I, as shown on Sheet
7 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Work Nos. 40

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Private means of access to be stopped up   (2)   Extent of
stopping up   (3)   Notes     Painshill Park emergency access from A3
southbound carriageway At point E, as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. There is reasonably convenient access to the land
otherwise than from the street or private means of access concerned.

##### ALTERATIONS TO PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

      (1)   Private means of access to be altered   (2)   Extent of alteration
Private maintenance access to an electricity pylon from the A3 Painshill
junction As shown at point 8/i on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans – (see Work No.48). Private means of access from Elm Lane to
residential property, ‘Orchard Cottage’. As shown at point 23/i on Sheet 23 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans – (see Work No.34).

LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 25

(1) Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans (2) Purpose for which rights
over land may be acquired (3) Relevant part of the authorised development Land
Plans – Sheet 1 1/18a To provide, construct, inspect, retain, access,
maintain, renew and repair environmental mitigation works on land adjoining
Stratford Brook. Work No.54 1/40 To construct, retain, inspect, operate,
access maintain and repair a diverted gas pipeline and associated equipment.
Work No.63(a) Land Plans – Sheet 2 2/8 For use as a construction access route.
To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.34 2/9, 2/10, 2/14
For use as a construction access route. For use as a maintenance access for
the authorised development. Work No.23(b) Work No.33(c) Work No.33(d) Work
No.36 Work No.52(c) Work No.63(a) 2/12 To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment and
a filter drain. Work No.63(a) 2/12a To construct, operate, access and maintain
a carrier drain. Work No.52(b) 2/13a To construct, access and maintain a pre-
earthworks ditch. Work No.33 2/14a For use as a construction access route. To
construct a footpath and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated
equipment. To construct, operate, access and maintain a carrier drain. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.33(c) Work
No.52(b) Work No.63(a) 2/14b For use as a construction access route. To
construct a footpath and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated
equipment. To construct, operate, access and maintain a carrier drain. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.33(c) Work
No.52(b) Work No.63(a) 2/28a To construct the realignment of the access to RHS
Garden Wisley, to include provision of a new bus stop facility. To construct,
operate, access, and maintain the diversion of electric cables and associated
apparatus and equipment. Work No.33(f) Work No.62(c) 2/28c To construct the
realignment of the access to RHS Garden Wisley, to include provision of a new
bus stop facility. To construct, operate, access, and maintain the diversion
of electric cables and associated apparatus and equipment. To construct,
operate, access, and maintain the diversion of telecommunication cables, media
cables and equipment. Work No.33(f) Work No.62(c) Work No.65(c) 2/36 To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to a gas pipeline and associated equipment,
the width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. For use as
a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.63(a)
Land Plans – Sheet 3 3/3a To construct and use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.1(a) Work No.1(c) Work No.64(a) 3/3b To
construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to a gas pipeline and
associated equipment, the width of the new right not to exceed 6 metres. Work
No.63(a) 3/3d To construct and use as a maintenance access in relation to a
gantry and utility diversion. Work No.64(a) Work No.23(c) 3/9 To undertake,
retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew environmental
compensation works. Work No.58(b) 3/13 To undertake, retain, inspect, access,
maintain, monitor and renew environmental compensation works. Work No.58(a)
3/16 To construct a footpath and use as a maintenance access. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.36 3/19 To
construct, inspect, access and maintain a retaining wall and associated
planting. Work No.5(c) 3/19a To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain,
monitor and renew environmental mitigation and enhancement works. Work No.55
3/25 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and
associated equipment, the width of the new right not to exceed 6 metres. To
construct, operate, access and maintain an extension of an existing culvert.
For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.1(e)
Work No.35 Work No.63(a) 3/26a To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to
an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. To construct, operate,
access and maintain an extension of an existing culvert. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a carrier drain. For use as a maintenance access
for the authorised development. Work No.1(e) Work No.35 Work No.52(d) Work
No.63(a) 3/27 To construct, operate, access and maintain an extension of an
existing culvert. Work No.1(e) 3/31 Right of access for the purposes of
environmental compensation works. Work No.57 Work No.58 3/32 To construct a
bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment, the
width of the new right not to exceed 6 metres. For use as a maintenance access
for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.63(a) 3/37 To construct,
operate, access and maintain an extension of an existing culvert. To
construct, operate, access and maintain a carrier drain. To undertake, retain,
inspect, access, maintain, a highway fence. Work No.1(e) Work No.52(d) Land
Plans – Sheet 4 4/1 Right of access for the purposes of environmental
compensation works. Work No.57 Work No.58 4/3c To construct a bridleway and
use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment, the width of
the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. To construct, inspect,
access and maintain a retaining wall and highway fence. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.1(a) Work No.1(c)
Work No.35 Work No.63(a) 4/3d To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to
an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to existing electric lines, cables, equipment
and apparatus. The width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 6
metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work
No.35 Work No.62(d) Work No.63(a) 4/4, 4/4a, 4/10 To construct a bridleway and
use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment, the width of
the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. To construct, inspect,
access and maintain a retaining wall and highway fence. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.63(a)
4/4b To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a diversion to existing electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus, the width of the new right within the plot not to
exceed 6 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.35 Work No.62(d) Work No.63(a) 4/15a To undertake,
retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew environmental mitigation
and enhancement works. Work No.55 4/20 To construct a bridleway and use as a
substitute private means of access, and maintenance access. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.35(b)
Work No.35(d) 4/21 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor
and renew environmental compensation works. Work No.58(d) 4/22b To construct
and use an access to environmental compensation works. Work No.58(d) 4/23 To
construct a bridleway and associated drainage and for use as a substitute
private means of access, maintenance access, and for the maintenance of
Cockcrow overbridge. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.35 Work No.35(b) Work No.35(d) 4/30 To construct an
access and associated drainage and for use as a substitute private means of
access. The width of the new rights within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres.
Work No.35(c) 4/31, 4/34 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access. The width of the new rights within the plot not to exceed 3 metres.
For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35
4/37, 4/38 To construct, access and maintain a soakaway. Work No.52(f) 4/41 To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To access land to be
used for the construction of a temporary slip road in connection with
improvements to the M25 junction 10. To construct, access and maintain a
soakaway and pre-earthwork ditch. The width of the new rights within the plot
not to exceed 3 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.35 Work No.7 4/43, 4/45a To construct a bridleway and
associated drainage, for use as a substitute private means of access,
maintenance access and for the maintenance of Cockcrow overbridge. The width
of the new rights within the plot not to exceed 4.1 metres. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.35(b)
4/43a To construct, access and maintain a soakaway. Work No.35 4/43b To
construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas
pipeline and associated equipment, the width of the new rights within the plot
not to exceed 6 metres. To construct, inspect, access and maintain a highway
fence. Work No.63(a) 4/43c To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access. The width of the new rights within the plot not to exceed 3 metres.
For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35
4/43d To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and
associated equipment, the width of the new right within the plot not to exceed
6 metres. To construct, inspect, access and maintain a highway fence. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work
No.63(a) 4/46 To construct, maintain and use an access to a drainage
attenuation pond. Work No.52(e) 4/47 To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. To
construct, operate, access and maintain a filter drain. The width of the new
rights within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. Work No.63(a) 4/47a, 4/47b To
construct a bridleway and associated drainage and for use as a substitute
private means of access and maintenance access. To construct, operate, access
and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment,
the width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. For use as
a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.63(a)
4/47d To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing
gas pipeline and associated equipment and filter drain. Work No.63(a) 4/48a,
4/49a To construct an access and associated drainage and for use as a
substitute private means of access. The width of the new right within the plot
not to exceed 3.5 metres. Work No.35(c) 4/51 To construct a bridleway and
associated drainage and for use as a substitute private means of access and
maintenance access. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.35(c) 4/51a To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. The width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 3
metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work
No.35 4/52, 4/54, 4/67 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain,
monitor and renew environmental compensation works. Work No.58(c) 4/61 To
construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas
pipeline and associated equipment. To construct, operate, access and maintain
a filter drain. The width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 6
metres. Work No.63(a) 4/63 To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. The width of
the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. Work No.63(a) 4/72 To
construct and use an access as a private means of access and maintenance
access. To construct, maintain and use an access to a drainage attenuation
pond. To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew
environmental compensation works. For use as a construction access route in
connection with environmental compensation works. For use as a maintenance
access for the authorised development. Work No.52(e) Work No.58(c) 4/73, 4/75,
4/79a, 4/86a To construct, maintain and use an access to a drainage
attenuation pond. Work No.52(e) 4/82 To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. The
width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 6 metres. Work No.63(a)
Land Plans – Sheet 5 5/1c To construct, access and maintain a soakaway. Work
No.52(g) 5/1d To construct a bridleway. To operate, access and maintain a pre-
earthwork ditch, environmental barrier. Work No.35 Work No.52(g) Work No.61(d)
5/7 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing watercourse. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work
No.53(e) 5/7a To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To
access land to be used for the construction of a temporary slip road in
connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10. For use as a maintenance
access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.52(i) Work No.7 5/7c
To construct, access and maintain a soakaway and pre-earthwork ditch. Work
No.35 5/7d, 5/7e To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To
construct, operate, access and maintain a carrier drain. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing watercourse. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.37
Work No.52(i) Work No.53(e) 5/8 To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.37 5/8a To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diversion to an existing watercourse. To construct, access and maintain a
soakaway. Work No.53(e) 5/8b To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to an existing
watercourse. To construct, access and maintain a soakaway. Work No.53(e)
5/12a, 5/12b To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to
existing electric cables and associated apparatus and equipment. To access
land to be used for the construction of a temporary slip road in connection
with improvements to the M25 junction 10. Work No.62(g) Work No.7 5/12c To
construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain an environmental barrier and
soakaway. To access land to be used for the construction of a temporary slip
road in connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10. Work No.61(a)
Work No.7 5/13a, 5/13c To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. To access land to be used for the construction of a
temporary slip road in connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10.
Work No.61(a) Work No.7 5/13b To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diversion to existing electric cables and associated apparatus and equipment.
To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain an environmental barrier.
To access land to be used for the construction of a temporary slip road in
connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10. Work No.61(a) Work
No.62(g) Work No.7 5/21 To access land to be used for the construction of a
temporary slip road in connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10. To
construct, access and maintain a pre-earthwork ditch. To construct, maintain
and use an access to a drainage attenuation pond. Work No.7 Work No.52(h)
5/21a To access land to be used for the construction of a temporary slip road
in connection with improvements to the M25 junction 10. To construct, access
and maintain a pre-earthwork ditch. Work No.7 5/24, 5/24a To access land to be
used for the construction of a temporary slip road in connection with
improvements to the M25 junction 10. To construct, access and maintain a pre-
earthwork ditch. To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. Work No.7 Work No.61(b) 5/30 To construct a bridleway
and use as a maintenance access. For use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.35 Land Plans – Sheet 6 6/1b, 6/3a To
construct, access and maintain a pre-earthwork ditch. Work No.35 6/2 To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
inspect, access and maintain an environmental barrier and filter drain. For
use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.35 Work
No.35(f) Work No.61(c) 6/2b To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access. To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain an environmental
barrier and filter drain. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.35 Work No.61(c) 6/4 To construct, operate, inspect,
access and maintain an environmental barrier and filter drain. To construct,
operate, access and maintain the diversion of telecommunication cables, media
cables and equipment Work No.61(c) Work No.65(a) 6/4a, 6/4b To construct,
operate, inspect, access and maintain an environmental barrier and filter
drain. Work No.61(c) 6/9, 6/10 To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain a
retaining wall and filter drain. For use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.35 Work No.39 6/23a To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated
equipment. Work No.63(c) Land Plans – Sheet 7 7/9, 7/10 To construct, operate,
access and maintain modifications to access to gas valve compound. Work
No.17(c) Work No.40 7/15, 7/15a, 7/16 To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment.
Work No.63(c) 7/17 To construct, operate, access and maintain a diversion to
an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. To undertake, access and
maintain tree and shrub planting. Work No.63(a) 7/23 To construct a bridleway
and for use as a private means of access and for use as a maintenance access.
To construct, operate, access and maintain diversions to existing utility
connections and associated apparatus and equipment. For use as a construction
access route. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development.
Work No.35 Work No.35(k) Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/5b, 8/5c To construct, access
and maintain the authorised development. To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to electric cables and associated apparatus and
equipment. To access and maintain utility apparatus and equipment. Work No.18
Work No.18(b) Work No.40 Work No.65(a) 8/7 To construct, operate, access and
maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated equipment. To
construct, inspect, access and maintain a highway fence. Work No.63(c) 8/11 To
access, inspect and maintain a retaining wall. Work. No.16 8/12 To construct
an access and use as a private means of access. To construct, operate, access
and maintain a diversion to electric cables and associated apparatus and
equipment. To access, inspect and maintain a retaining wall. Work No.46 Work
No.16 Work No.62(o) 8/12a To access, inspect and maintain a retaining wall.
Work. No.16 Land Plans – Sheet 9 9/3 To construct an access and use as a
private means of access. To access, inspect and maintain a retaining wall.
Work No.46 Work No.16 9/13 To construct, operate, inspect, access and maintain
a carrier drain. Work No.52(l) Land Plans – Sheet 11 11/2 To undertake,
retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew environmental
compensation works. Work No.57(a) 11/3 To undertake, access and maintain tree
and shrub planting. Work No.29 11/4 To undertake, retain, inspect, access,
maintain, monitor and renew environmental mitigation works. Work No 60 11/6 To
construct, a bridleway, and filter drain. Work No.49 11/14 To construct a
bridleway and use as a maintenance access. For use as a maintenance access for
the authorised development. To construct, operate, access and maintain a
soakaway and environmental barrier. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 11/14a To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
access and maintain an environmental barrier. For use as a maintenance access
for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 11/18, 11/18b To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate,
access and maintain an environmental barrier. To construct, inspect, access
and maintain a retaining wall. For use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 11/19 To construct a
bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and
maintain a soakaway, pre-earthwork ditch and environmental barrier. The width
of the new rights within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b)
11/19a To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. To construct, inspect,
access and maintain a retaining wall. For use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 11/20 To construct, operate,
access and maintain a soakaway. Work No.49 11/21 To construct a bridleway and
use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain a pre-
earthwork ditch. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 11/22, 11/22a To construct, operate, access and
maintain a soakaway and environmental barrier. Work No.49 Work No.61(a) 11/23,
11/24a To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain a soakaway and an environmental barrier. For use
as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work
No.61(a) 11/24 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To
construct, operate, access and maintain a soakaway and an environmental
barrier. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work
No.49 Work No.61(a) 11/25 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access. The width of the new right within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres.
For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49
11/25a To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. Work No.49
11/29 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew
environmental compensation works. Work No.58(e) Land Plans – Sheet 12 12/1c To
construct, operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. Work No.49
12/4 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. The width of the new
right within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance
access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(a) Work No.52(m)
12/4a, 12/5a, 12/5c, 12/5d, 12/5e, 12/7, 12/12, 12/17 To construct a bridleway
and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 Work No.61(a) Work No.52(m) 12/5b To construct a
bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and
maintain an environmental barrier. The width of the new right within the plot
not to exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 Work No.61(a) Work No.52(m) 12/6 To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. Work No.49 Work
No.61(a) Work No.52(m) 12/11 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance
access and for the maintenance of Clearmount overbridge. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(a)
Work No.52(m) 12/18 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access.
To construct, operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. The width
of the new right within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(a)
Work No.52(m) 12/23 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access.
For use as a maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.49
Work No.52(m) 12/25 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access.
To construct, operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. To
undertake, access and maintain shrub planting. For use as a maintenance access
for the authorised development. To construct, operate, access and maintain a
diverted gas pipeline and associated equipment. Work No.49 Work No.61(a) Work
No.52(m) Work No.63(e) 12/25b To construct, operate, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. To undertake, access and maintain shrub planting. To
construct, operate, access and maintain a diverted gas pipeline and associated
equipment. Work No.61(a)Work No.63(e) 12/25c To construct, operate, access and
maintain a soakaway and an environmental barrier. Work No.61(a) 12/27 To
construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct, inspect,
access and maintain a retaining wall. For use as a maintenance access for the
authorised development. Work No.49 12/28 To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. The width of the new rights within the plot not to
exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 12/30 To construct a bridleway and use
as a maintenance access. The width of the new rights within the plot not to
exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 12/31 To construct a bridleway and use as a
maintenance access. To construct, operate, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. The width of the new rights within the plot not to
exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) 12/34 To construct a bridleway and use
as a maintenance access. To construct, maintain and use an access to a
drainage attenuation pond. To construct, operate, access and maintain an
environmental barrier. The width of the new rights within the plot not to
exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance access for the authorised
development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) Work No.52(h) 12/34a To construct,
maintain and use an access to a drainage attenuation pond. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. To construct, operate,
access and maintain a diversion to an existing gas pipeline and associated
equipment. Work No.52(h) Work No.61(b) Work No.63(e) 12/34b To construct,
maintain and use an access to a drainage attenuation pond. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. The width of the new
rights within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. Work No.52(h) Work No.61(b)
12/34c To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. To construct,
maintain and use an access to a drainage attenuation pond. To construct,
operate, access and maintain an environmental barrier. The width of the new
rights within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. For use as a maintenance
access for the authorised development. Work No.49 Work No.61(b) Work No.52(h)
Land Plans – Sheet 13 13/2, 13/2d To construct, access and maintain a pre-
earthworks ditch. Work No.26 Work No.35(e) 13/2e To construct, access and
maintain a pre-earthworks ditch and environmental barrier. Work No.26 Work
No.35(e) Work No.61(c) 13/4c, 13/4d To construct, access and maintain a pre-
earthworks ditch and environmental barrier. Work No.28 Work No.61(d) 13/4e,
13/4f, 13/4g To construct, access and maintain a pre-earthworks ditch. Work
No.28   13/9b  To construct, access and maintain a pre earthworks ditch and
environmental barrier. Work No.26 Work No.35(e) Work No.61(c) 13/9c To
construct, access and maintain a filter drain and environmental barrier. Work
No.26 Work No.35(e) Work No.61(c) 13/10, 13/11, 13/11a To construct a
bridleway and use as a maintenance access. For use as a maintenance access for
the authorised development. Work No.37 Work No.51(i) 13/14, 13/15 To
undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew environmental
compensation works. Work No.58(d) Land Plans – Sheet 20 20/2, 20/3, 20/4 To
undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew environmental
compensation works. Work No.58(f) Land Plans – Sheet 21 21/1 Right of access
for the purposes of environmental compensation works. Work No.58(g) 21/1a
Right of access for the purposes of environmental compensation works. Work
No.57 Work No.58 21/2 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor
and renew environmental compensation works. Work No.58(g) Land Plans – Sheet
23 23/1 To construct a bridleway and use as a maintenance access. For use as a
maintenance access for the authorised development. Work No.34 Land Plans –
Sheet 25 25/1 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and
renew environmental compensation works. Work No.58(h) Land Plans – Sheet 26
26/1 To undertake, retain, inspect, access, maintain, monitor and renew
environmental compensation works. Work No.57(b) 26/2 Right of access for the
purposes of environmental compensation works. The width of the new rights
within the plot not to exceed 3.5 metres. Work No.57(b)

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 25

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a
restrictive covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the
compulsory purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights) to the M25 Junction
10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022 (“ the 2022 Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the 2022 Order) to acquire an interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 28 (modification of Part
1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under article 22 (compulsory
acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a right by the
creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive covenant under
article 25 (compulsory acquisition of rights and restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modification referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the context) as referring to, or as
including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed to
be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restrictive
covenant is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers
conferred by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory acquisition under
article 22), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject
to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or
enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry:
further notices of entry), 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be
taken on specified date), 12  (penalty for unauthorised entry) and 13
(refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act are
modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 28(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired or enforce the restrictive
covenant imposed, subject to compliance with that section as respects
compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serves a notice to treat in
respect of a right over, or restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part
of a house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting
declaration under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations)
Act 1981 as applied by article 29 (application of the 1981 Act) of the M25
Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of
the land to which the notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 31(3) (acquisition of subsoil and airspace only) of the M25
Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange Development Consent Order 2022 which
excludes the acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the proposed use of the right or the imposition of the covenant, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

5.8.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 32

(1) Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans (2) Purpose for which temporary
possession may be taken (3) Relevant part of the authorised development Land
Plans – Sheet 1 1/6 The main site compound to include, but not limited to,
site offices, welfare facilities, parking provisions, storage of plant and
materials. All works 1/14 Required for works to tie in the B2039 Ockham Road
North to the improved A3 Ockham Park junction. Work No.31(c), Work No.31(h)
1/30, 1/31 For works relating to the improvement of Mill Lane at the tie-in
with the A3 northbound on-slip and construction of a drainage attenuation
pond. Work No.31(e), Work No.31(d), Work No.52(a) Land Plans – Sheet 2 2/1 For
the provision of a topsoil and materials storage and processing area,
structures worksite, traffic management area, welfare facilities and for the
construction of a bridleway. All Works Work No.34 2/1a To provide working
space for the construction of a highway, a bridleway and a highway fence. Work
No.33, Work No.63(a) 2/1b To provide working space for the construction of a
highway, a bridleway and highway fence. Work No.33 2/2, 2/4 For the provision
of a topsoil and materials storage area, structures worksite, traffic
management area and welfare facilities. All Works 2/3 For the provision of a
topsoil and materials storage and a structures worksite, traffic management
area, welfare facilities and for the construction of a bridleway. All Works
Work No.34 2/5a To provide working space for the construction of a highway and
bridleway. Work No.33 2/5c For the construction of a bridleway. Work No.34 2/6
For the provision of a topsoil and materials storage area, structures
worksite, traffic management area, welfare facilities and for the construction
of a bridleway. Work No.34 All Works 2/11 To provide working space for a
utility diversion. Work No.33, Work No.63(a) 2/13 For the construction of a
highway and utilities diversion. Work No.33, Work No.63(a) 2/21, 2/21a For the
improvement and widening of the A3 northbound and to provide working space for
the construction of a retaining wall and utility diversion. Work No.2, Work
No.64(a) 2/26 To provide working space and access for the realignment of
Wisley Lane and diversion of a footpath. Work No.33(e), Work No.33(h) 2/27a To
provide working space and access for the realignment of Wisley Lane. Work
No.33(e) 2/28 To provide working space and access and to allow the
construction of a temporary road. Work No.33(e), Work No.33(f), Work No.33(g),
Work No.65(c) 2/28b To provide working space and access during modifications
to the entrance to RHS Garden Wisley and utility diversions. Work No.33(e),
Work No.33(f), Work No.33(g), Work No.62(c), Work No.65(c) 2/30 To provide
working space and access and remediation of redundant carriageway. Work
No.33(e) 2/31, 2/32 To provide sufficient working space and access for the
realignment of Wisley Lane and diversion of a footpath. Work No.33(e), Work
No.33(h) 2/33 To provide working space and access for diversion of a footpath.
Work No.33(h) Land Plans – Sheet 3 3/3, 3/3c To provide working space to
construct a bridleway and utility diversion. Work No.35, Work No.63(a) 3/7 To
provide working space to construct a bridleway, utility diversions, gantry,
highways fence and for the improvement and widening of the A3 northbound. Work
No.1(c), Work No.23(c), Work No.35, Work No.63(a), Work No.64(a) 3/13a To
provide working space for utility diversion. Work No.63(a) 3/19b To provide
working space for the improvement of A3 southbound, works to a watercourse and
access for environmental mitigation and enhancement works. Work No.5(c), Work
No.5(d), Work No.36, Work No.53(b), Work No.55 3/24 To provide working space
to construct a bridleway, utility diversions, gantry, highways fence and for
the improvement and widening of the A3 northbound. Work No.1(c), Work
No.23(c), Work No.35, Work No.63(a), Work No.64(a) 3/33 To provide working
space to construct a bridleway, a utility diversion, and for environmental
mitigation works. Work No.35, Work No.63(a), Work No.56 3/34 To provide
working space to construct a bridleway, utility diversion and highway fence.
Work No.35, Work No.63(a) 3/37a To provide working space to extend a culvert,
construct a utility diversion and a highway fence. Work No.1(e), Work No.63(a)
Land Plans – Sheet 4 4/3, 4/3b To provide working space to construct a
bridleway, a utilities diversion and for environmental mitigation works. Work
No.35, Work No.56, Work No.63(a) 4/3a To provide sufficient working space and
access to construct a new maintenance access and bridleway, to divert a gas
pipeline and associated equipment, to build a highway fence and to construct a
filter drain. Work No.35, Work No.63(a) 4/4c To provide working space to
construct a bridleway, a utility diversion, a highways fence and for the
improvement and widening of the A3 northbound. Work No.1(c), Work No.35, Work
No.63(a) 4/15b To provide working space for the alteration of the A3
southbound on-slip, improvement of junction of Old Lane, a utility diversion
and construction of a highways fence. Work No.4, Work No.65(a) 4/19 To provide
working space for the construction of a bridleway, stopping up of existing
accesses and improvement of junction of Old Lane. Work No.4, Work No.35(d)
4/22 To provide working space to construct a bridleway and footpath. Work
No.35, Work No.35(b), Work No.35(d) 4/22a To provide working space for the
realignment of the access points to Ockham Common Car Park and to construct a
bridleway and soakaway. Work No.35(d) 4/24 To provide working space for the
realignment of the access points to Ockham Bites Café and Ockham Common Car
Park, the construction of a bridleway, the alteration and widening of the A3
southbound on-slip, the construction of an environmental barrier and highways
fence and a utility diversion. Work No.4, Work No.35(d), Work No.65(a), Work
No.61(d) 4/25 To provide working space for the alteration and widening of the
A3 southbound on-slip, improvement of junction of Old Lane and utility
diversions Work No.4, Work No.62(f), Work No.65(a) 4/27 To provide working
space to construct a bridleway. Work No.35(d) 4/30a To provide working space
for the alteration and widening of the A3 southbound on-slip, demolition of
the Cockcrow overbridge, the construction of bridleway, environmental barrier
and utilities diversion. Work No.4, Work No.35(b), Work No.35, Work No.61(d),
Work No.65(a) 4/32, 4/33 To provide working space to construct a bridleway and
footpath. Work No.35, Work No.35(b) 4/35 To provide working space for the
alteration and widening of the A3 southbound on-slip, demolition of the
Cockcrow overbridge, the construction of bridleway, environmental barrier and
utility diversion. Work No.4, Work No.35, Work No.61(d), Work No.65(a) 4/40,
4/40a To provide working space to construct a bridleway, a utility diversion,
and to construct an access to a drainage attenuation pond. Work No.35(b), Work
No.35(c), Work No.63(a), Work No.52(e) 4/42 To provide working space to
construct a bridleway, a drainage attenuation pond and a soakaway. Work No.35,
Work No.52(f) 4/45, 4/45a To provide working space for the widening of the A3
northbound, construction of a gantry, bridleway, utility diversions and a
highways fence. Work No.1(c), Work No.23(d), Work No.35, Work No.62(e), Work
No.63(a), Work No.64(b), Work No.65(d) 4/46a, 4/46b To provide working space
to construct a bridleway and utility diversion. Work No.35, Work No.63(a)
4/48, 4/49, 4/49b To provide working space to construct a bridleway and
realignment to a private means of access. Work No.35(c) 4/48b To provide
working space to construct a bridleway, realignment to a private means of
access and soakaway. Work No.35(c) 4/52a For use as a construction access
route. All Works 4/57 To provide working space to construct a bridleway and
utilities diversion. Work No.35(c), Work No.63(a) 4/58 To provide working
space and access to construct a bridleway, utilities diversion, environmental
barrier and improvement of the A3 northbound carriageway. Work No.1(c), Work
No.35(c), Work No.63(a), Work No.61(a) 4/62 To provide working space to
construct utilities diversion, environmental barrier and improvement of the A3
northbound carriageway. Work No.1(c), Work No.63(a), Work No.61(a) 4/64, 4/65,
4/66, 4/66a To provide working space to construct a utility diversion and to
construct an access to a drainage attenuation pond. Work No.63(a), Work
No.52(e) 4/69 For the provision of a structures worksite. Work No.35(b) 4/74,
4/76, 4/78, 4/78a, 4/79, 4/80 To provide working space to construct an access
to a drainage attenuation pond. Work No.52(e) 4/81, 4/81a To provide working
space to construct a utility diversion and to construct an access to a
drainage attenuation pond. Work No.63(a), Work No.52(e) 4/84 To provide
working space to for the demolition of the Cockcrow overbridge, construction
of a drainage attenuation pond, utilities diversions, environmental barrier
and improvement of the A3 northbound carriageway. Work No.1(c), Work No.63(a),
Work No.61(a), Work No.35(b), Work No.52(e), Work No.61(a) 4/88 For the
provision of a site compound and working space for the improvement of the A3
northbound off-slip and construction of a drainage attenuation pond. All Works
Land Plans – Sheet 5 5/1 For the provision of topsoil storage and to provide
working space for the construction of a free-flow slip lane, alteration and
widening of the M25 westbound off-slip, a bridleway, utilities diversions and
environmental barrier. Work No.11, Work No.28, Work No.35, Work No.62(f), Work
No.61(d), Work No.65(a) 5/2 To provide working space to construct a bridleway
and a drainage attenuation pond and fencing. Work No.35, Work No.52(g) 5/2a To
provide working space to construct a drainage attenuation pond and fencing.
Work No.52(g) 5/7b To provide working space for the construction of a free-
flow slip lane, for the alteration and widening of the M25 eastbound on-slip
and the construction of a bridleway, environmental barrier and the diversion
or realignment of a watercourse. Work No.10, Work No.26, Work No.35, Work
No.53(f), Work No.61(c) 5/9 To provide working space to construct a bridleway,
a diversion or realignment of a watercourse and to construct a drainage
attenuation pond and fencing. Work No.35, Work No.53(f), Work No.52(i) 5/11
For use as a construction access route. All Works 5/12 To provide working
space for the construction of a temporary slip road, free-flow slip lane,
environmental barrier, for a utility diversion, improvement of the M25
westbound on-slip and for the diversion and/or realignment of a watercourse.
Work No.29, Work No.8, Work No.53(d), Work No.62(g), Work No.61(a) 5/13 To
provide working space for the construction of a temporary slip road, free-flow
slip lane, environmental barrier, for a utility diversion and improvement of
A3 northbound off-slip. Work No.3, Work No.8, Work No.62(g), Work No.61(a)
5/22, 5/23 To provide working space for the construction of a temporary slip
road, free-flow slip lane, the improvement, realignment and widening of the
M25 eastbound off-slip, the improvement, realignment and widening of the A3
northbound on-slip and the construction of an environmental barrier. Work
No.9, Work No.14, Work No.25, Work No.61(b) 5/31 To provide working space to
construct a gantry. Work No.23(f) Land Plans – Sheet 6 6/2a, 6/12, 6/12a, To
provide working space to construct a bridleway. Work No.35 6/5, 6/5a For use
as a structures worksite. Work No.35(f) 6/13, 6/13a, 6/13b, 6/14 To provide
working space to construct a bridleway. Work No.39 6/18 To provide working
space for the improvement of the A3 southbound carriageway, works associated
with stopping up an access to Painshill Park, to construct a retaining wall, a
utility diversion and a highway fence. Work No.17(a), Work No.17(b), Work
No.17(e), Work No.65(a) 6/21a, 6/21b To provide working space for the
improvement of the A3 southbound carriageway, to construct a retaining wall, a
utility diversion and a highway fence. Work No.17(a), Work No.17(b), Work
No.23(h), Work No.65(a) 6/22b To provide working space for the improvement of
the A3 southbound carriageway, to construct a retaining wall, a utility
diversion and a highway fence. Work No.17(a), Work No.17(b), Work No.65(a)
Land Plans – Sheet 7 7/6 For the provision of a construction site compound.
All works 7/12, 7/22 For the provision of topsoil and materials storage. All
works 7/13, 7/13a, 7/14 To provide access and working space for a utility
diversion. Work No.63(c) 7/23a, 7/28 To provide working space for the
improvement and widening of the A3 northbound off-slip, utility diversion and
highway fence. Work No.16, Work No.62(k) Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/7a, 8/7b To
provide working space to construct a footpath, utilities diversions and
highways fence. Work No.41, Work No.62(l), Work No.63(c), Work No.65(a) 8/27,
8/28, 8/29, 8/30 To provide working space to improve the A245 Portsmouth Road
at the tie-in with the A3 Painshill junction. Work No.42(a), Work No.42(b)
8/34 To provide working space to improve the A3 southbound carriageway, the A3
Painshill junction and the A245 Portsmouth Road at the tie-in with the A3
Painshill junction. Work No.17(a), Work No.42(a), Work No.42(b) Land Plans –
Sheet 9 9/4 To provide working space to construct improvements to the A245
Byfleet Road westbound and eastbound carriageways and B365 Seven Hills Road, a
dedicated slip road, a utility diversion and a highway fence. Work No.44(a),
Work No.44(e), Work No.44(f), Work No.45, Work No.47(a), Work No.62(p) 9/4a To
provide working space to construct new private access to Feltonfleet School
from B365 Seven Hills Road. Work No.45, Work No.46 9/7 To provide working
space to construct improvements and widening to the A245 Byfleet Road
westbound and eastbound carriageways, a dedicated slip road, stopping up of an
access, utilities diversions and a highway fence. Work No.44(a), Work
No.44(b), Work No.44(c), Work No.44(d), Work No.44(e), Work No.44(f), Work
No.47(a), Work No.47(b), Work No.62(p), Work No.62(o) 9/8, 9/9, 9/10 To
provide working space and construct improvements to the A245 Byfleet Road
eastbound carriageway. Work No.47(a) 9/12 To provide working space for the
improvement and widening of the A245 Byfleet Road eastbound carriageway and
for the construction of a footway, utilities diversions and a highway fence.
Work No.47(a), Work No.47(b), Work No.47(e), Work No.62(q), Work No.64(k),
Work No.65(h) Land Plans – Sheet 11 11/1 To provide working space for the
improvement of the M25 westbound carriageway, the improvement and widening of
the M25 westbound on-slip and the construction of an environmental barrier.
Work No.27(a), Work No.29, Work No.61(a) 11/9, 11/9a For the provision of
topsoil and materials storage and working space for the improvement of the M25
westbound carriageway, the improvement and widening of the M25 westbound on-
slip, the construction of a soakaway and an environmental barrier. All Works
11/10, 11/10a, 11/11 For the provision of topsoil and materials storage and
working space for the improvement of the M25 westbound carriageway, the
improvement and widening of the M25 westbound on-slip, the construction of a
soakaway and an environmental barrier. All Works 11/26 To provide working
space for the construction of a bridleway and drainage attenuation pond and
fencing. Work No.49, Work No.52(m) Land Plans – Sheet 12 12/1d To provide
working space for the construction of a bridleway and drainage attenuation
pond and fencing. Work No.49, Work No.52(m) 12/5 To provide working space for
the construction of a bridleway and demolition and replacement of existing
Clearmount overbridge. Work No.49 12/25a To provide working space for the
construction of a bridleway tie-in to an existing permissive signposted route.
Work No.49 12/25d To provide working space for the construction of a new gas
main diversion under the M25. Work No.63(e) Land Plans – Sheet 13 13/1 To
provide working space to construct a bridleway, a diversion or realignment of
a watercourse and drainage ditch. Work No.35(e), Work No.53(f) 13/1a To
provide working space to construct a bridleway. Work No.35(e)   13/9  For use
as a construction compound. All works. Land Plans – Sheet 20 20/1a, 20/5 For
modifications to road signage. Work No.33(i) Land Plans – Sheet 23 23/2 For
modifications to the entrance to Orchard Cottage. Work No.34 23/3 To provide
working space for the construction of a turning head on Elm Lane. Work No.34
23/5, 23/6 To provide access to construction of Work No.34. Work No.34 23/7
For modifications to the entrance to Orchard Cottage and to provide working
space for the construction of a turning head on Elm Lane. To provide access to
construction of Work No.34. Work No.34 Land Plans – Sheet 24 24/1 To provide
working space to tie-in Elm Lane to Elm Corner. Work No.50(a) 24/2 For the
improvement of Byway 525 (Byway Open to All Traffic), between Elm Corner and
Old Lane. Work No.50(a) 24/3 For the improvement of Byway 525 (Byway Open to
All Traffic), between Elm Corner and Old Lane. To provide working space to
tie-in Elm Lane to Hatch Lane. Work No.50(a) 24/4, 24/4a, 24/4b To provide
working space to tie-in Elm Lane to Old Lane and to install two toad
underpasses and associated reptilian fencing along Old Lane. To provide
working space to clear trees and other vegetation to create a visibility splay
including road traffic mitigation measures Work No.50(a) Work No.50(b) Land
Plans – Sheet 26 26/2a To provide working space for the construction of a
footpath. Work No.51

  TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS

Article 40

      (1)   Type of tree   (2)   Work to be carried out   (3)   Relevant part
of the authorised development   (4)   TPO reference     Group TPO   Multiple
species woodland   Potential disturbance to roots or lopping of branches to
enable construction of a new bridleway and to ensure that any overhanging
branches will not constitute a danger to the public or obstruct access once
the bridleway is open for use. Work No.39 Part of Tower Hill, Painshill Park
Estate   TPO ref: P1/201/151 dated 15.06.1948 Guildford Borough Council
Group TPO   Mixed coniferous and deciduous woodland   Potential requirement
for some lopping of trees to ensure that none of the trees will constitute a
danger to the public once the replacement land and proposed new bridleway are
open for use and for some localised felling within the dense stand of birch to
improve accessibility for use of the land as replacement common land/public
open space. Work No.59(a) Foxwarren Park Estate   TPO ref: P1/201/105 dated
25.10.1956 Guildford Borough Council   Group TPO comprising 2 Turkey Oaks and
2 Sweet Chestnut Potential disturbance to the roots and a requirement for the
lopping of one Turkey Oak within the G2 group TPO and for disturbance to the
root protection area of a second Turkey Oak within the same TPO group, to
enable construction of a new footpath and associated earthworks and the
diversion of utilities. Work Nos. 41, 62(l), 63(c), 64(j) and 65(a) Land at
Painshill House and adjacent properties on the north side of Painshill Park,
Cobham   TPO ref: EL:11/47   dated 08.06.2012 Group 2   Elmbridge Borough
Council

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 35 and 44

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

###### Application

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

###### Interpretation

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant
(as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 ), belonging to or maintained by that
undertaker;       in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply;       in the
case of a water undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or
maintained by that undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and       in
the case of a sewerage undertaker—     any drain or works vested in the
undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and       any sewer which is so
vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section
102(4) (adoption of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to
adopt made under section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage
disposal works at a future date) of that Act ,             and includes a
sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219 (general
interpretation) of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating
shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer, drain or
works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or
which gives or will give access to apparatus;         “ functions ” includes
powers and duties;         “in”, in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus or
alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;         “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and         “ utility undertaker ” means—       any licence holder
within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;       a gas
transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986;       a water
undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act 1991; and       a
sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act
1991,       for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any
apparatus, means the undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is
maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker has the same powers and rights in respect of any apparatus in the
street as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker
must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably satisfactory
to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access to it, but
nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of the
utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under paragraph 7
or the power of the undertaker to carry out works under paragraph 9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary closure or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article 14 (temporary closure and restriction of use of
streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished, until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in
accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with
a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a utility
undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker
must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility undertaker the
necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative apparatus
in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that
apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed the utility undertaker must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best
endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which
the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker and the
undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 48 (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 48, and after the grant to the utility undertaker of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker that the undertaker desires itself to
execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or
removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work, instead of
being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the undertaker
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the
reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

7.7

If the utility undertaker fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide
reasons for its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be
required to make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal
works under sub-paragraph (2) within 28 days of receiving a notice of the
required works from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been
approved.

7.8

For the avoidance of doubt, any deemed approval under sub-paragraph (7) does
not extend to the actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain
the sole responsibility of the utility undertaker or its contractors.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction, maintenance of the utility undertaker of alternative apparatus
in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights are
to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and the utility undertaker or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 48 (arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms
and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker a plan of the works to be executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under
sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case must give the utility undertaker notice as soon as
is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3) in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule,
that value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 48 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker by virtue of sub-
paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2), or by
reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty or
costs incurred by the utility undertaker.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) unless a
utility undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due
care and attention and in a skilful and professional like manner or in a
manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the
consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Co-operation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;         “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code;         “ the electronic communications code ” has the
same meaning as in Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the 2003 Act ;         “ electronic
communications code network ” means—       so much of an electronic
communications network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic
communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 (application
of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and       an
electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;             “ electronic communications code operator ”
means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by
a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;         “ infrastructure system
” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references
to providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and         “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 35 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertaker’s works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
48 (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

18

18.1

The following provisions shall apply for the protection of the Agency unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the Agency.

18.2

In this part of this Schedule—

    “ the Agency ” means the Environment Agency;         “ construction ”
includes execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and
excavation and “construct” and “constructed” are to be construed accordingly;
“ drainage work ” means any main river and includes any land which provides or
is expected to provide flood storage capacity for any main river and any bank,
wall, embankment or other structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for
land drainage, flood defence or tidal monitoring;         “ fishery ” means
any waters containing fish and fish in, or migrating to or from, such waters
and the spawn, spawning ground, habitat or food of such fish;         “ main
river ” means all watercourses shown as such on the statutory main river maps
held by the Agency and the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs
including any structure or appliance for controlling or regulating the flow of
water in or out of the channel;         “ plans ” includes sections, drawings,
specifications, calculations and method statements;         “ specified work ”
means so much of any work or operation authorised by this Order as is in, on,
under, over or within 8 metres of a drainage work or is otherwise likely to—
affect any drainage work or the volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing
to or from any drainage work;       affect the flow, purity or quality of
water in any watercourse or other surface waters or ground water;       cause
obstruction to the free passage of fish or damage to any fishery;       affect
the conservation, distribution or use of water resources; or       affect the
conservation value of the main river and habitats in its immediate vicinity;
“ watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts,
dykes, sluices, basins, sewers and passages through which water flows except a
public sewer.

19

19.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the Agency plans of the specified work and such further particulars
available to it as the Agency may within 28 days of the receipt of the plans
reasonably request.

19.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the Agency, or determined under
paragraph 28.

19.3

Any approval of the Agency required under this paragraph—

19.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

19.3.b

in the case of a refusal must be accompanied by a statement of grounds of
refusal;

19.3.c

is deemed to have been refused if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if
such particulars have been requested by the Agency for approval and

19.3.d

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the Agency may have
for the protection of any drainage work or the fishery or for the protection
of water resources, or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the
discharge of its environmental duties.

19.4

The Agency must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the submission of
any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-paragraph
(3)(c).

20

Without limiting paragraph 19, the requirements which the Agency may have
under that paragraph include conditions requiring the undertaker, at its own
expense, to construct such protective works, whether temporary or permanent,
before or during the construction of the specified works (including the
provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other new works and the
strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or embankments) as
are reasonably necessary—

20.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

20.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

21

21.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the Agency under paragraph 20, must be constructed—

21.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved under this
Part of this Schedule; and

21.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency,

and the Agency shall be entitled by its officer to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

21.2

The undertaker must give to the Agency not less than 14 days’ notice in
writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

21.3

If the Agency reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct all or part
of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the construction of
the specified work to which the protective works relate.

21.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the Agency
is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule, the Agency may by notice in writing require the undertaker
at the undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part
of this Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and the Agency in writing
consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove,
alter or pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the
site to its former condition to such extent and within such limits as the
Agency reasonably requires.

21.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is
served upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to
comply with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made
reasonably expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may
execute the works specified in the notice and any reasonable expenditure
incurred by the Agency in so doing shall be recoverable from the undertaker.

21.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the Agency must not, except in the case of an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined in accordance with paragraph 28.

22

22.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (7) the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified works until the date falling 12 months from the
date of completion (“the maintenance period”), maintain in good repair and
condition and free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within
the limits of deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of
or in connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

22.2

Upon the expiry of the maintenance period, the drainage work must be
maintained by the highway authority of the highway to which the specified work
relates.

22.3

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the Agency, the Agency may by
notice in writing require the person liable for maintenance to repair and
restore the work, or any part of such work, or (if the person liable for
maintenance so elects and the Agency in writing consents, such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the specified work and restore
the site to its former condition, to such extent and within such limits as the
Agency reasonably requires.

22.4

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in respect of any
drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (3) on the person liable for
maintenance, the person has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
reasonable requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the Agency may do what is
necessary for such compliance and any reasonable expenditure incurred by the
Agency in so doing is recoverable from that person.

22.5

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the Agency in accordance with these protective
provisions the Agency may serve written notice requiring the undertaker to
cease all or part of the specified works and the undertaker must cease the
specified works or part thereof until it has obtained the consent or complied
with the condition unless the cessation of the specified works or part thereof
would cause greater damage than compliance with the written notice.

22.6

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (3), the Agency shall not, except in the
case of an emergency, exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (4) until
the dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph 28.

22.7

This paragraph does not apply to—

22.7.a

drainage works which are vested in the Agency, or which the Agency or another
person is liable to maintain and is not proscribed by the powers of this Order
from doing so; or

22.7.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

23

If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of
any such work, the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes
is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, such impairment or
damage must be made good by the undertaker to the reasonable satisfaction of
the Agency and if the undertaker fails to do so, the Agency may make good the
impairment or damage and recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by the
Agency in so doing from the undertaker.

24

If by reason of construction of the specified work the Agency’s access to
flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access that will allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the
equipment no less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within
24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

25

25.1

The undertaker must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in the fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

25.2

If by reason of—

25.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

25.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to the fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the Agency may serve notice on the undertaker requiring
it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good the
damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such damage.

25.3

If within such time as may be reasonably practicable for that purpose after
the receipt of written notice from the Agency of any damage or expected damage
to a fishery, the undertaker fails to take such steps as are described in sub-
paragraph (2), the Agency may take those steps and any expenditure reasonably
incurred by the Agency in so doing shall be recoverable from the undertaker.

25.4

In any case where immediate action by the Agency is reasonably required in
order to secure that the risk of damage to the fishery is avoided or reduced,
the Agency may take such steps as are reasonable for the purpose, and may
recover from the undertaker any expenditure reasonably incurred in so doing
provided that notice specifying those steps is served on the undertaker as
soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or commenced to
take, the steps specified in the notice.

26

The undertaker must repay to the Agency all reasonable costs, charges and
expenses which the Agency may reasonably incur—

26.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

26.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the Agency under this Part of this Schedule; and

26.c

in the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the Agency which are reasonably
required in connection with the construction of the specified works.

27

27.1

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for costs and losses which
may be reasonably incurred or suffered by the Agency by reason of—

27.1.a

the construction of any specified works comprised within the authorised works;
or

27.1.b

any act or omission of the undertaker, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction of the authorised works.

27.2

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph (1)—

    “ costs ” includes—       expenses and charges;       staff costs and
overheads;       legal costs;             “ losses ” includes physical damage.

27.3

The undertaker must make reasonable compensation for liabilities, claims and
demands arising out of or in connection with the authorised works or otherwise
out of the matters referred to in sub-paragraph (1)(a) and (b).

27.4

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph (3)—

    “claims” and “demands” include as applicable—       costs (within the
meaning of sub-paragraph (2)) incurred in connection with any claim or demand;
any interest element of sums claimed or demanded;             “ liabilities ”
includes—       contractual liabilities;       tortious liabilities (including
liabilities for negligence or nuisance);       liabilities to pay statutory
compensation or for breach of statutory duty; and       liabilities to pay
statutory penalties imposed on the basis of strict liability (but does not
include liabilities to pay other statutory penalties).

27.5

The Agency must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand.

27.6

The undertaker may at its own expense conduct all negotiations for the
settlement of the same and any litigation that may arise therefrom.

27.7

The Agency must not compromise or settle any such claim or make any admission
which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of the
undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

27.8

The Agency must, at all times take reasonable steps to prevent and mitigate
any such claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or loss.

27.9

The Agency must, at the request of the undertaker, afford all reasonable
assistance for the purpose of contesting any such claim or action, and is
entitled to be repaid its reasonably expenses reasonably incurred in so doing.

27.10

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the Agency, or to its satisfaction, or in
accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator, does not relieve the
undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule.

28

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the Agency under this part of
this Schedule will, if the parties agree, be determined by arbitration under
article 48 (arbitration), but will otherwise be determined by the Secretary of
State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs or its successor and the
Secretary of State for Transport or its successor acting jointly on a
reference to them by the undertaker or the Agency, after notice in writing by
one to the other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF SURREY COUNTY COUNCIL IN RESPECT OF ORDINARY WATERCOURSES

29

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule apply for the
protection of Surrey County Council unless otherwise agreed between the
undertaker and Surrey County Council.

30

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering, replacing,
relaying and removal and “construct” and “constructed” are to be construed
accordingly;         “ drainage work ” means an ordinary watercourse and
includes any land which is expected to provide flood storage capacity for an
ordinary watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other structure, or any
appliance, constructed or used for land drainage or flood defence in
connection with an ordinary watercourse;         “ ordinary watercourse ” has
the same meaning as given in section 72 (interpretation) of the Land Drainage
Act 1991 ;         “ plans ” includes any information reasonably required by
Surrey County Council including location details, grid references, sections,
drawings, specifications, assessments and method statements; and         “
specified work ” means any of the following works carried out in relation to
any ordinary watercourse—       erecting any mill dam, weir or other similar
obstruction to the flow of the watercourse, or raising or otherwise altering
any such obstruction;       erecting a culvert in the watercourse; or
altering a culvert in a manner that would be likely to affect the flow of the
watercourse.

###### Ordinary watercourses

31

31.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to Surrey County Council plans of the specified work, and such further
particulars available to the undertaker as Surrey County Council may within 28
days of the first submission of the plans reasonably require or as otherwise
agreed between the parties.

31.2

The undertaker must not commence construction of the specified work until
approval, unconditionally or conditionally, has been given as provided in sub-
paragraph (4) of this paragraph.

31.3

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by Surrey County Council, or determined
under paragraph 38.

31.4

Any approval of Surrey County Council required under this paragraph—

31.4.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

31.4.b

is to be deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the submission of the plans for approval or where further
particulars are submitted under sub-paragraph (1), within 2 months of the
submission of those particulars whichever is the later; and

31.4.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements or conditions as Surrey
County Council may make for the protection of any drainage work.

31.5

Any refusal under this paragraph must be accompanied by a statement of the
reasons for refusal.

32

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 31, the requirements or
conditions which Surrey County Council may make under paragraph 31 include
conditions requiring the undertaker at its own expense to construct such
protective works (including any new works as well as alterations to existing
works) as are reasonably necessary—

32.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage by reason of any specified work,
or

32.b

to secure that the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence and land
drainage purposes is not impaired and that the risk of flooding is not
otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

33

33.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2) any specified work, and all protective works
required by Surrey County Council under paragraph 32, must be constructed—

33.1.a

without unreasonable delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under this Part of this Schedule; and

33.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of Surrey County Council and an officer of
Surrey County Council is entitled on giving such notice as may be reasonable
in the circumstances, to inspect and watch the construction of such works.

33.2

The undertaker must give to Surrey County Council not less than 14 days’
notice of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and the
undertaker must give to Surrey County Council notice of completion of a
specified work not later than 7 days after the date of completion.

33.3

If Surrey County Council reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct
all or part of the protective works so that they are in place before the
construction of the specified work.

33.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required is constructed
otherwise than in accordance with the requirements of this Part of this
Schedule, Surrey County Council may by notice require the undertaker at the
undertaker’s own expense to comply with the requirements of this Part of this
Schedule or (if the undertaker so elects and Surrey County Council in writing
consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) to remove, alter or
pull down the work and, where removal is required, to restore the site to its
former condition to such extent and within such limits as Surrey County
Council reasonably requires.

33.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), if within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is served
upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply
with the requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, Surrey County Council may
execute the works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably
incurred by it in so doing is to be recoverable from the undertaker.

33.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, Surrey County Council must not, except in an emergency, exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been finally
determined.

###### General

34

34.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), from the commencement of the construction of any
specified work, the undertaker must maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified work, whether the drainage work is constructed
under this Order or is already in existence.

34.2

If any drainage work is not maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of
Surrey County Council, it may by notice require the undertaker to repair and
restore the drainage work, or any part of it, or (if the undertaker so elects
and Surrey County Council in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove the specified work and restore the
site to its former condition to such extent and with such limits as Surrey
County Council reasonably requires.

34.3

If, within a reasonable period being not less than 28 days beginning with the
date on which a notice in respect of any drainage work is served under sub-
paragraph (2) on the undertaker, that person has failed to begin taking steps
to comply with the reasonable requirements of the notice and has not
subsequently made reasonably expeditious progress towards their
implementation, Surrey County Council may do what is necessary for such
compliance and may recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by it in so
doing from the person liable for maintenance.

34.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), Surrey County Council must not except
in a case of emergency exercise the powers of sub-paragraph (3) until the
dispute has been finally determined.

34.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

34.5.a

drainage works which are vested in Surrey County Council, or which Surrey
County Council or another person is liable to maintain and is not prevented by
this Order from so doing; and

34.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule provided that any obstruction is removed as soon as
reasonably practicable.

35

If by reason of the construction of any specified work or of the failure of
any such work the efficiency of any drainage work for flood defence purposes
or land drainage is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise damaged, so
as to require remedial action, such impairment or damage must be made good as
soon as is reasonably practicable by the undertaker to the reasonable
satisfaction of Surrey County Council and if the undertaker fails to do so,
Surrey County Council may make good the same and recover from the undertaker
the expense reasonably incurred by it in doing so.

36

36.1

The undertaker must repay to Surrey County Council all costs, charges and
expenses which it may reasonably incur or which it may sustain—

36.1.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

36.1.b

in the inspection of the construction of a specified work or any protective
works required by Surrey County Council under this Part of this Schedule; and

36.1.c

in carrying out any reasonable surveys or tests by Surrey County Council which
are reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified
work.

36.2

The maximum amount payable to Surrey County Council under sub-paragraph (1)(a)
to (c) is to be the same as would have been payable to Surrey County Council
in accordance with the scale of charges for pre-application advice and land
drainage consent applications published on Surrey County Council’s website
from time to time.

37

37.1

Without limiting the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker must make reasonable compensation for the costs reasonably incurred
by Surrey County Council from all claims, demands, proceedings, costs,
damages, expenses or loss, which may be made or taken against, recovered from,
or incurred by Surrey County Council by reason of—

37.1.a

any damage to any ordinary watercourse so as to impair its efficiency for
drainage work;

37.1.b

any raising or lowering of the water table in land adjoining the authorised
development or any sewers, drains and watercourses; or

37.1.c

any flooding or increased flooding of any such lands,

caused by the construction of any specified work or any act or omission of the
undertaker, its contractors, agents or employees whilst engaged on the work.

37.2

Surrey County Council must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand, and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
agreement of the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

38

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and Surrey County Council under
this Part of this Schedule is to be determined in accordance with article 48
(arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF SOUTHERN GAS NETWORKS PLC AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

39

For the protection of SGN the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and SGN, have effect.

###### Interpretation

40

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of SGN to enable SGN to fulfil its statutory functions
in a manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ” means any
gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections,
cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by SGN for the purposes
of gas distribution together with any replacement apparatus and such other
apparatus constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus
of SGN for the purposes of transmission, distribution and/or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus;         “ commence ” has the same meaning as
in Part 1 of Schedule 2 (requirements) and commencement is construed to have
the same meaning save that for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule the
terms “ commence ” and “ commencement ” include operations consisting of non-
intrusive investigations and surveys, ecological surveys and pre-construction
ecological mitigation, investigations for the purpose of assessing and
monitoring ground conditions and levels, erection of any temporary means of
enclosure, receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment and site
clearance;         “ deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing
agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties
acting reasonably in order to vary or replace existing easements, agreements,
enactments and other such interests so as to secure land rights and interests
as are necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a
manner consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule;
“facilities and rights” for construction and for maintenance include any
appropriate working areas required to reasonably and safely undertake that
construction or maintenance, and any necessary rights of access;         “
functions ” includes powers and duties;         “ ground mitigation scheme ”
means a scheme approved by SGN (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld
or delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground
subsidence event;         “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for
monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be
subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in
which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring
activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, requires
the undertaker to submit for SGN’s approval a ground mitigation scheme;
“ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the
monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has
exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a
ground mitigation scheme;         “in” in a context referring to apparatus or
alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative
apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land;         “maintain” and
“ maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the following in
relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of SGN including retain,
lay, construct, inspect, maintain, protect, use, access, enlarge, replace,
renew, remove, decommission or render unusable or remove the apparatus;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed;         “ rights ” includes restrictive
covenants, and in relation to decommissioned apparatus the surrender of
rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned apparatus;
“ SGN ” means Southern Gas Networks plc or its successors in title or
successor bodies and/or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 ;         “ specified works ” means any of the
authorised development or activities (including maintenance) undertaken in
association with the authorised development which—       will or may be
situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph 45(2) or otherwise;       may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
sub-paragraph 45(2) or otherwise;             “ undertaker ” means the
undertaker as defined in article 2.

###### On Street Apparatus

41

41.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and SGN are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act, except for—

41.1.a

paragraphs 42, 47, 48 and 49; and

41.1.b

where sub-paragraph (2) applies, paragraphs 45 and 46.

41.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be carried out
under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of SGN in stopped up streets

42

42.1

Without prejudice to the generality of any other protection afforded to SGN
elsewhere in this Order, where any street is stopped up under article 15
(permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of
access), if SGN has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street
SGN will be entitled to the same rights in respect of such apparatus as it
enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to
SGN, or procure the granting to SGN of, legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to SGN in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street or highway but nothing in this paragraph is to
affect any right of the undertaker or of SGN to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph 45.

42.2

Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under
the powers of article 14 (temporary closure and restriction of use of
streets), SGN will be at liberty at all times to take all necessary access
across any such stopped up highway or to execute and do all such works and
things in, upon or under any such highway as it would have been entitled to do
immediately before such temporary stopping up or diversion in respect of any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

43

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of SGN (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

44

44.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any land interest or appropriate, acquire, extinguish
or override any easement or other interest or right or apparatus of SGN
otherwise than by agreement.

44.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out of any part of the authorised development (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between SGN and the undertaker) that is subject to
the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any conflict
with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land interest of
SGN or affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between SGN and the undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or
erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker, the undertaker must
as SGN reasonably requires enter into such deeds of consent and variations
upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between SGN and the undertaker
acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole to SGN
unless otherwise agreed by SGN, and it will be the responsibility of the
undertaker to procure or secure the consent to and entering into of such deeds
and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land at that
time who are affected by such authorised development or maintenance thereof.

44.3

The undertaker and SGN agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by SGN or other enactments relied
upon by SGN as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the
provisions in this Part of this Schedule must prevail.

44.4

Any agreement or consent granted by SGN under paragraph 47 or any other
paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, will not be taken to constitute
agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

44.5

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1) that
involves de-commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must
accept a surrender of any existing easement or other interest of SGN in such
decommissioned apparatus and release SGN from all liabilities in respect of
such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

44.6

Where the undertaker acquires land which is subject to any SGN right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 45 do not apply,
the undertaker must, unless SGN agrees otherwise—

44.6.a

retain any notice of SGN’s easement, right or other interest on the title to
the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

44.6.b

(where no such notice of SGN’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
SGN’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

45

45.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 44, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed, that
apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed under this Part of this
Schedule and any right of SGN to maintain that apparatus in that land must not
be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed, is in
operation, and the rights and facilities referred to in sub-paragraph (2) have
been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of SGN and in accordance with
sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

45.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to SGN
advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and section
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order SGN reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
SGN to its satisfaction (taking into account sub-paragraph 46(1)) the
necessary facilities and rights—

45.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus;

45.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus; and

45.2.c

to allow access to that apparatus.

45.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, SGN must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the undertaker in
obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation must not
extend to the requirement for SGN to use its compulsory purchase powers to
this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

45.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between SGN and the undertaker.

45.5

SGN must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to SGN of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus required by
the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the provisions of this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

46

46.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for SGN facilities and rights in land for the
construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in substitution for
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities and rights must be
granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker
and SGN and must be no less favourable on the whole to SGN than the facilities
and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed unless otherwise agreed by SGN.

46.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
SGN under sub-paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the
terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be
granted, are less favourable on the whole to SGN than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are
subject in the matter will be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 53 of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such
provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to SGN as appears
to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of
the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of SGN

47

47.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to SGN a plan and, if reasonably required by SGN, a
ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

47.2

The plan to be submitted to SGN under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method
statement and describe—

47.2.a

the exact position of the works;

47.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

47.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

47.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

47.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

47.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

47.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until SGN has given
written approval of the plan so submitted.

47.4

Any approval of SGN required under sub-paragraph (3)—

47.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

47.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and SGN must meaningfully engage
with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the plan under
sub-paragraph (1).

47.5

SGN may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

47.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

47.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1), as approved or as amended from
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and SGN; and

47.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a), and SGN will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

47.7

Where SGN requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by the
undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective works,
inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of the plan
approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to SGN’s satisfaction
prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant part
thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

47.8

If SGN, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 39 to 41 and 44 to 46 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph 45(2).

47.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

47.10

The undertaker is not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to SGN notice
as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with—

47.10.a

the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances; and

47.10.b

sub-paragraph (11) at all times.

47.11

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development the undertaker must implement an
appropriate ground mitigation scheme save that SGN retains the right to carry
out any further necessary protective works for the safeguarding of its
apparatus and can recover any such costs in line with paragraph 48.

47.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

48

48.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to SGN on demand all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
incurred by SGN in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying
or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised development as are referred to in this Part of
this Schedule including without limitation—

48.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by SGN in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by SGN as a consequence of SGN—

48.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
sub-paragraph 45(3) if it elects to do so; or

48.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting SGN;

48.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

48.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

48.1.d

the approval of plans;

48.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

48.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule; and

48.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 47(6).

48.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

48.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

48.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

48.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 53 to be necessary, then, if such
placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of this
Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus placed
had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the existing
depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-paragraph
would be payable to SGN by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will be reduced by the
amount of that excess save where it is not possible in the circumstances (or
it would be unlawful due to a statutory or regulatory change) to obtain the
existing type of apparatus at the same capacity and dimensions or place at the
existing depth in which case full costs will be borne by the undertaker.

48.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

48.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

48.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

48.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to SGN in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on SGN any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

49

49.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction, and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of
any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by
him) in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation
works carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised development) or property of SGN, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by SGN,
or SGN becomes liable to pay any amount to any third party, the undertaker
will—

49.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from SGN the cost
reasonably incurred by SGN in making good such damage or restoring the supply;
and

49.1.b

indemnify SGN for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from SGN, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption or SGN becoming liable to any
third party as aforesaid other than arising from any default of SGN.

49.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by SGN on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by SGN or in accordance with
any requirement of SGN or under its supervision including under any watching
brief will not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) excuse the undertaker from
liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless SGN fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

49.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

49.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of SGN, its officers, servants, contractors or agents; and

49.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by SGN in the exercise of
any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

49.4

SGN must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party claim
or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must, unless
payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme, be
made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

50

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise, nothing in this
Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between the undertaker and SGN in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

51

51.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or SGN requires the removal of apparatus under
sub-paragraph 45(2) or SGN makes requirements for the protection or alteration
of apparatus under paragraph 47, the undertaker must use its best endeavours
to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of safety and the
efficient and economic execution of the authorised development and taking into
account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of SGN’s
undertaking and SGN must use its best endeavours to co-operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

51.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever SGN’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by the
undertaker or the taking of action by the undertaker, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

52

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with sub-paragraph
44(1) or the powers conferred under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative rights and
means of access to such apparatus as will enable SGN to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

53

Save for differences or disputes arising under sub-paragraphs 45(2), 45(4) and
46(1) any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and SGN under
this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and SGN, be determined by arbitration in accordance with
article 48 (arbitration).

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKER

###### Application

54

54.1

For the protection of National Grid the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

54.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 9 (consent to transfer
benefit of Order)—

54.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

54.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

54.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph 64(3)(b)).

###### Interpretation

55

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;         “
apparatus ” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by National Grid together
with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant
to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of National Grid for the
purposes of transmission, distribution or supply and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus;         “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as is given to
the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) (interpretation) and
includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Part of this
Schedule;         “commence” and “commencement” in paragraph 62 and 65
includes any below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations or the
receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment;         “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary or replace existing easements, agreements, and other such interests so as
to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule;         “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such
approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary
measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event;         “ ground monitoring
scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the
apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be
monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the
timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence
which, if exceeded, will require the undertaker to submit for National Grid’s
approval a ground mitigation scheme;         “ ground subsidence event ” means
any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in the
ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;         “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land;         “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the ability
and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair,
alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus;         “ National Grid ” means
National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc or any successor as a licence
holder within the meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed;         “ specified works ” means any of
the authorised works or activities undertaken in association with the
authorised works which—       will or may be situated over, or within 15
metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 60(2) or otherwise; or
may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 60(2) or otherwise.

56

Except for paragraphs 57 (apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets),
62 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) 63 (expenses)
and 64 (indemnity) which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any
powers under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid,
the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus
in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

57

57.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 15 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if National Grid
has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid has
the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before
the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the
granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right
of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph 60 (removal of apparatus) or the power of the undertaker,
subject to compliance with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under
paragraph 62 (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker).

57.2

Notwithstanding the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under
the powers of article 14 (temporary closure and restriction of use of
streets), National Grid is at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all such works
and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary
or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the
stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

58

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 20 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

59

59.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

59.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and/or secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by
all other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are
affected by such authorised works.

59.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation and/or removal of apparatus (including but not
limited to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation
and/or removal of apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement,
rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by
National Grid and/or other enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right
or other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Part of
this Schedule will prevail.

59.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 62 (retained
apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) or any other paragraph of
this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under
sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

60

60.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

60.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph 61(1) (facilities and rights for alternative
apparatus)) the necessary facilities and rights—

60.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of or secured by,
the undertaker; and

60.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

60.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation will not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

60.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

60.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

61

61.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

61.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 68 (arbitration) and the
arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to National Grid as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable
having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

62

62.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

62.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus or involve embankment
works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted to National
Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and describe—

62.2.a

the exact position of the works;

62.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

62.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

62.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

62.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

62.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

62.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

62.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement including—

62.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

62.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

62.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

62.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

62.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

62.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

62.3.g

an assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National
Grid’s engineers; and

62.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

62.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

62.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (4)—

62.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and

62.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

62.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

62.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

62.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker(whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

62.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 54 to 56 and 59 to 61 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 60(2).

62.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

62.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

62.12

In sub-paragraph (11) “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to or to
prevent the occurrence of circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

63

63.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation—

63.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

63.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 60(3); or

63.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

63.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

63.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

63.1.d

the approval of plans;

63.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works; and

63.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

63.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

63.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

63.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

63.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 68 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

63.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

63.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

63.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

63.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

64

64.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

64.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

64.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

64.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to carry
out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

64.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) will impose any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

64.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents; and

64.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

64.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

64.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

64.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

65

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

66

66.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 60(2) or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 62 (retained apparatus:
protection of electricity undertaker), the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised works and
taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid shall use its best endeavours to
co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

66.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this Schedule, or agreement is required to
be reached between the parties under this Part of this Schedule, it must not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

67

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 59(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

68

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraphs 60(2), 60(4) and
61(1), any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article 48 (arbitration).

###### Notices

69

Notwithstanding article 47 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 62 must be sent to
National Grid Plant Protection at plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such
other address as National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that
purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

  SPECIAL CATEGORY LAND

Article 38

##### SPECIAL CATEGORY LAND FOR WHICH REPLACEMENT LAND IS PROVIDED

      Plot reference number shown on Special Category Land Plans and in the
book of reference   Sheet 2 2/17, 2/17a, 2/17b, 2/20, 2/29 Sheet 3 3/8, 3/11,
3/12, 3/17, 3/21, 3/22, 3/23 Sheet 4 4/5, 4/5a, 4/6, 4/8, 4/9, 4/15, 4/17,
4/18, 4/26, 4/39, 4/59, 4/85, 4/87 Sheet 5 5/1a, 5/5, 5/10, 5/14, 5/19, 5/20
Sheet 6 6/3, 6/7, 6/8 Sheet 11 11/3a, 11/4a, 11/8, 11/8a, 11/27/ 11/28 Sheet
12 12/1, 12/1a, 12/1b, 12/3, 12/14, 12/16, 12/32, 12/33, 12/33a Sheet 13
13/1b, 13/2a, 13/2b, 13/2c, 13/4, 13/4a Sheet 28 28/2

##### SPECIAL CATEGORY (RIGHTS) LAND FOR WHICH REPLACEMENT LAND IS PROVIDED

      Plot reference number shown on Special Category Land Plans and in the
book of reference     (*)   In part: The remaining parts of each of these
plots fall within Part 3. The parts of the plots in question are those parts
of the plots in respect of which the rights required are for (a) earthworks to
access tracks, (b) drainage ditches and infiltration ditches and (c)
earthworks to access tracks that will be on the highways side of environmental
barrier fencing.         Sheet 2 2/36 Sheet 3 3/32 Sheet 4 4/3c , 4/3d , 4/4 ,
4/4a , 4/23 , 4/31 , 4/34 , 4/41 , 4/43 , 4/51a , 4/72 Sheet 5 5/1c, 5/1d,
5/7a , 5/7c, 5/8a, 5/21, 5/24a, 5/30 Sheet 6 6/1b, 6/9 , 6/10 Sheet 11 11/19 ,
11/19a, 11/21, Sheet 12 12/1c, 12/4a, 12/5a, 12/5c, 12/5e, 12/6, 12/7, 12/25c,
12/31, 12/34 , 12/34b , 12/34c Sheet 13 13/2, 13/2e, 13/4c, 13/4d

##### SPECIAL CATEGORY (RIGHTS) LAND FOR WHICH REPLACEMENT LAND IS NOT PROVIDED

      Plot reference number shown on Special Category Land Plans and in the
book of reference     (*)   In part: The remaining parts of each of these
plots fall within Part 2. The parts of the plots in question are those parts
of the plots in respect of which the rights required are for (a) access
tracks, including access tracks which serve ditches (b) filter drains and
associated access space and (c) soakaways and associated access space.
Sheet 2 2/12, 2/12a, 2/13a, 2/36 Sheet 3 3/3a, 3/3b, 3/3d, 3/9, 3/13, 3/16,
3/19, 3/19a, 3/25, 3/26a, 3/27, 3/31,3/32 , 3/37 Sheet 4 4/1, 4/3c , 4/3d ,
4/4 , 4/4a , 4/4b, 4/10, 4/15a, 4/21, 4/22b, 4/23 , 4/30, 4/31 , 4/34 , 4/37,
4/38, 4/41 , 4/43 , 4/43a, 4/43b, 4/43c, 4/43d, 4/45a, 4/46, 4/47, 4/47a,
4/47b, 4/47d, 4/48a, 4/49a, 4/51, 4/51a , 4/52, 4/54, 4/61, 4/63, 4/67, 4/72 ,
4/73, 4/75, 4/79a, 4/82, 4/86a Sheet 5 5/7, 5/7a , 5/7d, 5/7e, 5/8, 5/8b,
5/12a, 5/12b, 5/12c, 5/13a, 5/13b, 5/13c, 5/21a, 5/24, 5/30 Sheet 6 6/2, 6/2b,
6/3a, 6/4, 6/4a, 6/4b, 6/9 , 6/10 Sheet 11 11/2, 11/3, 11/4, 11/6, 11/19 ,
11/20, 11/22, 11/22a, 11/23, 11/24, 11/24a, 11/25, 11/25a, 11/29 Sheet 12
12/4, 12/5b, 12/5d, 12/11, 12/12, 12/17, 12/18, 12/23, 12/25, 12/25b, 12/34 ,
12/34a, 12/34b , 12/34c Sheet 13 13/2d, 13/4e, 13/4f, 13/4g, 13/11, 13/14,
13/15 Sheet 20 20/2, 20/3, 20/4 Sheet 21 21/1, 21/1a, 21/2 Sheet 25 25/1 Sheet
26 26/1, 26/2

##### REPLACEMENT LAND

      Plot reference number shown on Special Category Land Plans and in the
book of reference   Sheet 11 11/16, 11/17g Sheet 12 11/17g Sheet 27 11/16,
11/17, 11/17a, 11/17b, 11/17c, 11/17d, 11/17e, 11/17f, 11/17g, 27/1 Sheet 28
11/17d, 11/17e, 11/17f, 11/17h, 11/17i, 11/17j Sheet 29 11/17h

DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Article 45

The reference to a document in the table with a numbered regulation is a
reference to the regulation as numbered in the Infrastructure Planning
(Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure) Regulations 2009 . (1) Document
(2) Document Reference (3) Revision   Applicant’s Submission of Tree
Protection Plan for Royal Horticultural Society  TR010030/9.140 0 Book of
Reference – Regulation 5(2)(d) TR010030/APP/4.3 5 Crown Land Plans –
Regulation 5(2)(n) TR010030/APP/2.6 4 Engineering Drawings and Sections –
Regulation 5(2)(o), 5(4) and 6(2) TR010030/APP/2.9 2 Environmental Statement –
Main Report – Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010030/APP/6.3 1 Environmental Statement –
Figures – Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010030/APP/6.4 2 Environmental Statement –
Appendices– Regulation 5(2)(a) TR010030/APP/6.5 2 Habitats Regulations
Assessment – Regulation 5(2)(g) TR010030/APP/5.3 2 Land Plans – Regulation
5(2)(i) TR010030/APP/2.2 5 Location Plan – Regulation 5(2)(o) TR010030/APP/2.1
3 Outline Construction Environmental Management Plan – Regulation 5(2)(q)
TR010030/APP/7.2 5   Proposed carriageway surface course options – Regulation
5(2)(o) Sheet 1 of 1  TR010030/APP/9.22 0 Register of Environmental Actions
and Commitments – Regulation 5(2)(q) TR010030/APP/7.3 5   Report of Proposed
Scheme Changes 7 to 9  Figure 5.1 in TR010030/APP/10.12 (Vol 10) 0 RHS Tree
Protection Plan TR010030/EXAM/9.140 0 Scheme Layout Plans – Regulation 5(2)(o)
TR010030/APP/2.8 5 Special Category Land Plans – Regulation 5(2)(i)(iv)
TR010030/APP/2.5 4 Speed Limits and Traffic Regulations Plans – Regulation
5(2)(o) TR010030/APP/2.7 3 Statutory Nuisance Statement – Regulation 5(2)(f)
TR010030/APP/5.2 0 Streets, Rights of Way and Access Plans – Regulation
5(2)(k) TR010030/APP/2.4 3 Temporary Works Plans – Regulation 5(2)(o)
TR010030/APP/2.10 3 Water Framework Directive Assessment Report – Regulation
5(2)(q) TR010030/APP/5.4 1 Works Plans – Regulation 5(2)(j) TR010030/APP/2.3 4

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order authorises National Highways to undertake works to alter junction
10 of the M25/A3 Wisley interchange, the M25 and the A3 near Wisley in Surrey
and carry out all associated works.

The Order permits National Highways to acquire, compulsorily or by agreement,
land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

The Order also includes provisions in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

A copy of the plans, engineering drawings and sections, the book of reference,
the environmental statement, the habitats regulations assessment, the Water
Framework Directive assessment report, the statutory nuisance statement, the
register of environmental actions and commitments and the outline CEMP
mentioned in this Order and certified in accordance with article 45
(certification of documents, etc.) of this Order may be inspected free of
charge during normal working hours at National Highways, Bridge House, 1
Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

