Title: The Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel and Public Health Information to Travellers) (Wales) (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2022 (revoked)
Date: 2022-03-28
Description: These Regulations amend the Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel) (Wales) Regulations 2020 (S.I. 2020/574 (W. 132)) (“the International Travel Regulations”) and the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Public Health Information for Persons Travelling to Wales etc.) Regulations 2020 (S.I. 2020/595 (W. 136) (“the Public Health Information Regulations”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/16

## The Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel and Public Health Information to Travellers) (Wales) (Miscellaneous Amendments) Regulations 2022  (revoked)

Public Health, Wales

Made at 7.11 p.m. on 6 January 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru at 11 a.m. on 7 January 2022

Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### General

#### Title and coming into force

1

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendments to the Health Protection (Coronavirus, International Travel) (Wales) Regulations 2020

2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 2A

3

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 6A

4

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 6AB

5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 6DB

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 6E

7

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 6HB

8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendments of regulation 9

9

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 12

10

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 14

11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of regulation 16

12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Amendment of Schedule 1C

13

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Amendment of the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Public Health Information for Persons Travelling to Wales etc.) Regulations 2020

14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Substitution of the Schedule

15

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend the Health Protection (Coronavirus, International
Travel) (Wales) Regulations 2020 ( S.I. 2020/574 (W. 132) ) (“ the
International Travel Regulations ”) and the Health Protection (Coronavirus,
Public Health Information for Persons Travelling to Wales etc.) Regulations
2020 ( S.I. 2020/595 (W. 136)  (“ the Public Health Information Regulations
”).

Part 2 of these Regulations amends the International Travel Regulations.

The International Travel Regulations impose requirements on persons entering
Wales after having been abroad. They include requirements for persons arriving
in Wales to book and undertake coronavirus tests and to isolate for a period
determined in accordance with those Regulations. The requirements imposed by
the International Travel Regulations are subject to exceptions, and certain
categories of person are exempt from having to comply. The International
Travel Regulations also make specific provisions for “regulation 2A
travellers”, which includes individuals who have been fully vaccinated in
prescribed countries and territories.

Regulation 3 of these Regulations makes an amendment to regulation 2A
(exemptions for vaccinated travellers and others) of the International Travel
Regulations to extend the recognition of vaccinations and vaccine certificates
to further countries and territories.

Regulation 4 of these Regulations makes an amendment to regulation 6A
(requirement to possess notification of a negative test result) of the
International Travel Regulations to remove the requirement for pre-departure
testing for regulation 2A travellers.

Regulation 5 of these Regulations amends regulation 6AB (requirement to book
and undertake tests) of the International Travel Regulations so as to enable
regulation 2A travellers to use a lateral flow device (“ LFD ”) tests for day
2 tests.

Regulation 6 of these Regulations makes amendments to regulation 6DB
(requirement to isolate on failure to take tests: regulation 2A travellers) of
the International Travel Regulations to provide that the isolation
requirements shall apply to a regulation 2A traveller that fails to take a day
2 test.

Regulation 7 of these Regulations makes amendments to regulation 6E
(consequences of a positive test result) of the International Travel
Regulations to to insert provision requiring a person to undertake a
confirmatory polymerase chain reaction (“ PCR ”) test where they receive a
positive test result on a LFD test, as well as containing provision on
isolation requirements following test results.

Regulation 8 of these Regulations makes amendments to regulation 6HB
(consequences of receiving inconclusive test result: regulation 2A travellers)
of the International Travel Regulations to provide that the isolation
requirements apply to a regulation 2A traveller that has received an
inconclusive test result.

Regulation 9 of these Regulations makes amendments to regulation 9 (isolation
requirements: exemptions) to remove the requirement to isolate for children
that are under the age of 5 upon arrival in Wales and regulation 2A
travellers.

Regulation 10 of these Regulations substitutes regulation 12 (last day of
isolation) to provide that the last day of a person’s isolation is the last
day of the period of 10 days beginning with the day after the day on which
they were last in a non-exempt country or territory.

Regulation 11 of these Regulations makes amendments to regulation 14
(offences) to introduce an offence for failing to undertake a confirmatory PCR
test.

Regulation 12 of these Regulations which makes amendments to regulation 16
(fixed penalty notices) in consequence of the introduction of an offence for
failing to undertake a confirmatory PCR test.

Regulation 13 of these Regulations makes further provision in Schedule 1C
(mandatory testing after arrival in Wales) in relation to the introduction of
LFD testing, and to ensure that day 8 tests are taken no earlier than the end
of seventh day of a person’s isolation.

Part 3 of these Regulations amends the Public Health Information Regulations.

The Public Health Information Regulations impose requirements on operators of
international passenger services coming from outside the common travel area to
an airport, heliport or seaport in Wales to provide passengers with specific
public health information.

Regulation 15 of these Regulations amends the Public Health Information
Regulations to update the information that operators are required to provide
to passengers travelling to Wales in consequence of the amendments made to the
International Travel Regulations.

There has been no regulatory impact assessment in relation to these
Regulations due to the need to put them in place urgently to deal with a
serious and imminent threat to public health.

