Title: The Electricity (Connection Charges) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-05-24
Description: These Regulations amend the Electricity (Connection Charges) Regulations 2017 (“the 2017 Regulations”) in relation to cases where a second connection, within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 5B to the Electricity Act 1989, is required by a notice under section 16A of that Act given on or after 1st April 2023.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1265

## The Electricity (Connection Charges) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Electricity

  Made   30th November 2022

  Laid before Parliament   6th December 2022

  Coming into force   1st April 2023

      The Secretary of State makes these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 19(3A) and 60(3) of, and Schedule 5B to, the Electricity
Act 1989 .           In accordance with paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 5B to that
Act, the Secretary of State has consulted the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Electricity (Connection Charges)
(Amendment) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st April 2023.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

### Application

2

These Regulations apply in relation to a second connection  required under
section 16 of the Electricity Act 1989 by virtue of a notice given under
section 16A(1) of that Act on or after 1st April 2023.

### Amendment of the Electricity (Connection Charges) Regulations 2017

3

The Electricity (Connection Charges) Regulations 2017  are amended in
accordance with regulations 4 and 5.

### Amendment of regulation 2 (interpretation)

4

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

4.a

omit the definitions of “HV connection”, “kV” and “LV connection”;

4.b

after the definition of “eligible person”, insert—

      “ high expenses threshold ” means the threshold, expressed in pounds per
unit of power, applied by the relevant electricity distributor in relation to
the expenses of a connection;

;

4.c

for the definition of “net first connection expenses” substitute—

      “ net first connection expenses ”, in relation to a second connection,
means the first connection expenses  excluding such of those expenses relating
to reinforcement works—         which were met in full by the relevant
electricity distributor  or the initial contributor;           which fell
above the high expenses threshold and were met by the initial contributor;
which the relevant electricity distributor would not require the person
obtaining the second connection to defray under section 19(1) of the Act  if
the electric line or electrical plant  used for the purpose of the second
connection were treated as provided for the purpose of making a new first
connection;

.

### Amendment of regulation 7 (demanding a reimbursement payment)

5

For regulation 7(5) substitute—

5.5

A relevant electricity distributor is not required—

5.5.a

to demand a reimbursement payment in any case where the amount of the
reimbursement payment would, after deduction of administrative expenses under
regulation 9, leave less than £300 remaining for payment to eligible persons,

5.5.b

to demand a reimbursement payment in any case where all the persons identified
by the relevant electricity distributor in accordance with regulation 6(2),
other than the relevant electricity distributor if it is an eligible person
itself, have notified the relevant electricity distributor in writing that
they do not wish to receive a reimbursement payment, or

5.5.c

to demand a reimbursement payment, or reimbursement in respect of any part of
a reimbursement payment, which the distributor is not required and does not
intend to make by virtue of regulation 9(3).

.

      Graham Stuart   Minister of State   Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy     30th November 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Electricity (Connection Charges) Regulations
2017 (“ the 2017 Regulations ”) in relation to cases where a second
connection, within the meaning given by paragraph 1 of Schedule 5B to the
Electricity Act 1989, is required by a notice under section 16A of that Act
given on or after 1st April 2023.

  The 2017 Regulations make provision about the expenses of electrical
connections, where a person (a “second comer”) obtains a connection to
premises or a distribution system which makes use of electric lines or
electrical plant previously provided for the purpose of giving a connection to
other premises or another distribution system. In cases where other persons
have paid for all or part of the expenses of the first connection, the 2017
Regulations require the relevant electricity distributor to recover an amount
from the second comer and to apply that amount, less administrative expenses,
to reimburse the persons who paid for the first connection.

  Regulation 4 amends the 2017 Regulations to reflect changes to the
circumstances in which second comers are required to make reimbursement
payments, in particular to limit the circumstances where a second comer must
make a reimbursement payment in respect of expenses relating to network
reinforcement.

  Regulation 5 also amends the 2017 Regulations so that distributors are not
required to demand a reimbursement payment, or the appropriate part of any
such payment, which the distributor is not required and does not intend to pay
to an initial contributor under the provision in regulation 9(3) of the 2017
Regulations.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

