Title: The Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022
Date: 2024-06-14
Description: This Order makes provision for the fees payable in the sheriff court, to the sheriff clerk or the auditor of court (as appropriate).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/181

## The Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022

    Sheriff Court

  Made   24th May 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   26th May 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 107(1) and (2) of the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act
2014  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation, commencement and effect

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022 and, subject to
paragraphs (2) and (3), comes into force on 1 July 2022.

1.2

Article 3(1)(b) and schedule 2 come into force, and article 3(1)(a) and
schedule 1 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2023.

1.3

Article 3(1)(c) and schedule 3 come into force, and article 3(1)(b) and
schedule 2 cease to have effect, on 1 April 2024.

### Interpretation

2

In this Order—

    “extract decree” includes any duly authenticated extract of an order made
by the sheriff in respect of any licence, appointment, discharge or like
matter,         “minute” means a minute in terms of rule 14.2 of the Ordinary
Cause Rules,         “motion” means any written motion lodged with the sheriff
clerk in any proceedings in the sheriff court,         “Ordinary Cause Rules”
means the Ordinary Cause Rules 1993 ,         “partner” means a person to whom
a person is married or with whom the person is in a civil partnership,
“pursuer” includes a defender or other party to any proceedings in the sheriff
court where the pursuer is no longer a party to the proceedings,
“sheriff clerk” includes the Sheriff Clerk of Chancery, the Commissary Clerk
of Edinburgh and sheriff clerk depute,         “summary cause” has the meaning
assigned to it by section 35(1) of the Sheriff Courts (Scotland) Act 1971 ,
and         “writ” means any document containing written pleadings relating to
proceedings in the sheriff court and includes an inventory of estate, a
precept of arrestment on a liquid document of debt, a notice of intention to
defend and a notice of appearance lodged in an action of multiplepoinding
under rule 35.8 of the Ordinary Cause Rules.

### Fees payable in sheriff courts

3

3.1

Subject to paragraph (3) and articles 4 to 14—

3.1.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.1.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3.1.c

in respect of the matters specified in column 1 of the Table of Fees in
schedule 3 (table of fees payable from 1 April 2024) are the fees specified in
relation to those matters in column 2 of that Table, and

3.2

The fees payable under this Order are to be paid to the sheriff clerk or the
auditor of court.

3.3

The fees provided for by this Order are not payable by the Crown in the
enforcement of the criminal law or in the exercise of powers or the
performance of duties arising out of or relating to that enforcement.

3.4

No act is required of the sheriff clerk or the auditor of court in connection
with a matter specified in relation to any fee prior to—

3.4.a

the payment of that fee, or

3.4.b

an arrangement being entered into for payment of that fee.

### Certain fees payable only once

4

The fees payable in respect of the following matters are payable on one
occasion only in respect of a cause—

4.a

the matters specified in paragraphs 5, 24, 25 and 28 of the Table of Fees in
Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3, and

4.b

the matters specified in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Table of Fees in Part 2 of
schedule 1, 2 or 3.

### Matters included in certain fees

5

The following matters include, where appropriate, issue of an extract decree—

5.a

the matters specified in paragraphs 1, 5 to 8, 16 and 23 of the Table of Fees
in Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3, and

5.b

the matters specified in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Table of Fees in Part 2 of
schedule 1, 2 or 3.

### Fees payable in the Sheriff Personal Injury Court

6

6.1

The fees specified in the Table of Fees in Part 2 of schedule 1, 2 or 3 apply
only in relation to proceedings in the Sheriff Personal Injury Court .

6.2

Paragraph (3) applies where a matter is specified both in the Table of Fees in
Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3 (sheriff court) and in the Table of Fees in Part
2 of that schedule (sheriff personal injury court).

6.3

The fee specified in the Table of Fees in Part 2 applies, and the
corresponding fee in Part 1 is not payable in relation to proceedings in the
Sheriff Personal Injury Court.

### Cases in which an extra fee is payable

7

7.1

When a summary cause or simple procedure case  is remitted to the ordinary
cause roll, the fees payable in paragraphs 5 and 23 of the Table of Fees in
Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3 become payable in respect of the cause by the
persons who would have been required to pay them if the cause had been from
its commencement an ordinary cause, less the amount of any fee previously paid
by the person concerned in respect of the cause.

7.2

When any commissary proceedings, bankruptcy proceedings or proceedings under
section 4 of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995  are opposed, the
fees specified in paragraphs 5 and 23 of the Table of Fees in Part 1 of
schedule 1, 2 or 3 become payable in respect of the proceedings by the persons
who would have been required to pay them if the proceedings had been from
their commencement proceedings to which those paragraphs applied, less the
amount of any fee previously paid by the person concerned in respect of the
proceedings.

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: legal aid

8

A fee specified by this Order is not payable by a person if—

8.a

the person is in receipt of civil legal aid within the meaning of section
13(2) of the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986  in respect of the matter in the
Table of Fees in Part 1 or Part 2 of schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with
which the fee is payable,

8.b

the fee is payable in connection with a simplified divorce or dissolution of a
civil partnership application and the person is in receipt of advice and
assistance from a solicitor under the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 in respect
of that application, or

8.c

the person’s solicitor is undertaking work in relation to the matter in the
Table of Fees in Part 1 or Part 2 of schedule 1, 2 or 3 in connection with
which the fee is payable on the basis of any regulations made under section
36(1) of the Legal Aid (Scotland) Act 1986 providing for legal aid in a matter
of special urgency.

### Exemption of certain persons from fees: social security

9

9.1

A fee specified by this Order is not payable by a person if—

9.1.a

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income support under the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ,

9.1.b

the person is in receipt of an income-based jobseeker’s allowance under the
Jobseekers Act 1995 ,

9.1.c

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of guarantee credit under the
State Pension Credit Act 2002 ,

9.1.d

the person or the person’s partner (“the party”) is in receipt of working tax
credit, provided that—

9.1.d.i

child tax credit is being paid to the party, or otherwise following a claim
for child tax credit made jointly by the members of a couple (as defined in
section 3(5A) of the Tax Credits Act 2002 ) which includes the party, or

9.1.d.ii

there is a disability element or severe disability element (or both) to the
tax credit received by the party,

and that the gross annual income taken into account for the calculation of the
working tax credit is £20,592 or less,

9.1.e

the person or the person’s partner is in receipt of income-related employment
and support allowance under the Welfare Reform Act 2007 ,

9.1.f

the person is in receipt of universal credit under Part 1 of the 2012 Act  ,

9.1.g

the person is in receipt of either—

9.1.g.i

personal independence payment under Part 4 of the 2012 Act, or

9.1.g.ii

adult disability payment within the meaning given in regulation 2 of the
Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022

provided that the person’s gross annual income is £20,592 or less, or

9.1.h

the person or the person’s partner has, within the period of 3 months prior to
the date the specified fee would be payable but for this exemption, received
financial or other assistance under the Welfare Funds (Scotland) Act 2015 .

9.2

In this article—

    “the 2012 Act” means the Welfare Reform Act 2012 .

### Cases where articles 8 and 9 do not apply

10

Articles 8 and 9 do not apply as regards—

10.a

the fees specified in paragraphs 1 to 4 (commissary proceedings) of the Table
of Fees in Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3, or

10.b

the fee specified in paragraph 18 (sheriff court proceedings: petition for
removal of disqualification) of the Table of Fees in Part 1 of schedule 1, 2
or 3.

### Exemption in connection with estate exempt from inheritance tax

11

Where the estate of a deceased person is exempt from inheritance tax by virtue
of section 153A (death of emergency service personnel etc.), 154 (death on
active service etc.) or 155A (death of constables and service personnel
targeted because of their status) of the Inheritance Tax Act 1984 , there will
be no fee payable in respect of the inventory of that estate under paragraph
3(a), (b) or (c) (commissary proceedings) of the Table of Fees in Part 1 of
schedule 1, 2 or 3.

### Exemptions relating to particular proceedings

12

12.1

The fees provided for by this Order do not apply to—

12.1.a

any application under—

12.1.a.i

section 129 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (time orders),

12.1.a.ii

the Mental Health (Care and Treatment) (Scotland) Act 2003 , or

12.1.a.iii

any enactment relating to registration of births, marriages or civil
partnerships, or

12.1.b

any application or appeal under the Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011 .

12.2

Except in relation to the fee specified in paragraph 34 of the Table of Fees
in Part 1 of schedule 1, 2 or 3, the fees otherwise payable by a debtor or
creditor in terms of this Order do not apply to any proceedings under the
Debtors (Scotland) Act 1987  or the Debt Arrangement and Attachment (Scotland)
Act 2002 .

### Exemptions for applicants for certain interdicts and orders

13

13.1

The fees provided for by this Order are not payable by a person applying for a
specified interdict or for an exclusion order.

13.2

In this article—

13.2.a

“specified interdict” means an interdict or interim interdict that is—

13.2.a.i

a matrimonial interdict within the meaning of section 14(2) of the Matrimonial
Homes (Family Protection) (Scotland) Act 1981  (interdict competent where
spouses live together),

13.2.a.ii

a domestic interdict within the meaning of section 18A of that Act  (meaning
of “domestic interdict”),

13.2.a.iii

a relevant interdict under section 113(2) of the Civil Partnership Act 2004
(civil partners: competency of interdict), or

13.2.a.iv

otherwise an interdict in respect of which there is an application for a power
of arrest to be attached under section 1 of the Protection from Abuse
(Scotland) Act 2001  (attachment of power of arrest to interdict), and

13.2.b

“exclusion order” means an exclusion order under—

13.2.b.i

section 4 of the Matrimonial Homes (Family Protection) (Scotland) Act 1981
(exclusion orders),

13.2.b.ii

section 76 of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995  (exclusion orders etc.), or

13.2.b.iii

section 104 of the Civil Partnership Act 2004 (exclusion orders).

13.3

The exemption in paragraph (1) does not apply to a person applying for a
principal remedy other than a specified interdict or exclusion order.

### Exemption of certain motions from fees: jury trials in the Sheriff Personal Injury Court

14

The fees specified in paragraph 29 of the Table of Fees in Part 1 of schedule
1, 2 or 3 and in paragraph 1 of the Table of Fees in Part 2 of schedule 1, 2
or 3 are not payable in respect of motions under the following rules of the
Ordinary Cause Rules—

14.a

rule 36B.2(2)(b) (motion for a proof),

14.b

rule 36B.2(6) (motion for approval of proposed issue),

14.c

rule 36B.2(7) (motion for approval of proposed counter-issue), and

14.d

rule 36B.10 (motion for application of verdict).

### Revocations

15

The following instruments are revoked—

15.a

The Sheriff Court Fees Order 2018 , and

15.b

The Sheriff Court Fees Amendment Order 2018 .

      ASH REGAN   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh

TABLES OF FEES

Article 3(1)(a)

##### Sheriff court

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Sheriff Personal Injury Court

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

TABLES OF FEES

Article 3(1)(b)

##### Sheriff court

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

##### Sheriff Personal Injury Court

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

  TABLES OF FEES

Article 3(1)(c)

##### Sheriff court

Payable from 1 April 2024 Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 (Matters) (Fee Payable)
(Fee Formerly Payable) £ £ PART I — COMMISSARY PROCEEDINGS 1. Petition for
commissary proceedings 20 20 (NOTE: the fee includes issue of extract decree).
2. Sealing up repositories or the like, per hour. 35 34 3. Receiving and
examining inventory of estate, except where sub-paragraph (b) or (c) of this
paragraph applies— where the amount of the estate vested in or belonging
beneficially to the deceased, of which confirmation is required, or for which
resealing under the Colonial Probates Act 1892 is required does not exceed—
£50,000, No fee No fee £250,000, 282 276 where the amount of the estate
exceeds £250,000, 565 554 receiving and examining additional or corrective
inventory of estate or inventory of estate  ad non executa — where the amount
of the estate vested in or belonging beneficially to the deceased, of which
confirmation is required, or for which resealing under the Colonial Probates
Act 1892 is required does not exceed— £50,000, No fee No fee £250,000, 282 276
where the amount of the estate exceeds £250,000, 565 554 Receiving and
examining inventory of estate where it is declared that confirmation is not
required. The fees payable are 50% of those specified in sub-paragraph (a) or
(b) of this paragraph. If confirmation is subsequently required the remaining
50% of the fees specified in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) are payable The fees
payable are 50% of those specified in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) of this
paragraph. If confirmation is subsequently required the remaining 50% of the
fees specified in sub-paragraph (a) or (b) are payable 4. Commissary copying
and extracting. (1) Issuing certificate of confirmation— if ordered when
lodging inventory, each certificate, 8 8 if ordered subsequent to lodging
inventory— first certificate, including search fee, 20 20 each subsequent
certificate. 8 8 (2) Copy or duplicate confirmation— 13 13 if ordered when
lodging inventory, if ordered subsequent to lodging inventory— duplicate
confirmation, including search fee, 29 28 each subsequent duplicate
confirmation if ordered at the same time as the duplicate confirmation in head
(i). 13 13 (3) Certified extract confirmation and will (if any)— 29 28 if
ordered when lodging inventory, if ordered subsequent to lodging inventory— 41
40 certified extract, including search fee, each subsequent certified extract
if ordered at the same time as the certified extract in head (i). 29 28 (4)
Copy will— 8 8 if ordered when lodging inventory, if ordered subsequent to
lodging inventory— 20 20 copy will, including search fee, each subsequent copy
will if ordered at the same time as the copy will in head (i). 8 8 PART II —
SHERIFF COURT PROCEEDINGS Initial Writ 5. Initial writ in any proceedings not
being proceedings for which any other paragraph of this Table specifies a fee.
(NOTE: fee covers issue of extract decree). 141 138 6. European Order for
payment in terms of EU Regulation 1896/2006 – application for European Order
for payment. 141 138 Divorce and dissolution of civil partners 7. Initial writ
in an action of divorce or dissolution of a civil partnership (other than a
simplified divorce or dissolution of a civil partnership application). (NOTE:
fee covers issue of extract decree). 168 165 Application for simplified
divorce and simplified dissolution of civil partnership 137 134 8. Any
application (inclusive of all procedures other than those specified at
paragraphs 9 and 38). (NOTE: fee covers issue of extract decree). 9.
Subsequent application upon change of circumstances by party. 35 34 Summary
warrant 82 80 10. Application for summary warrant. Bankruptcy and Insolvency
126 124 11. Petition for sequestration of estates or petition for recall of
award of sequestration. 12. Miscellaneous applications, including appeals
under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 1985 or the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act
2016. 65 64 13. Lodging of notice of appointment or intention to appoint an
administrator out of court under the Insolvency Act 1986 or filing documents
with the court to obtain a moratorium under section A3 of Part A1 of that Act.
137 135 Declarator and petitions for completion of title for the Sheriff of
Chancery 14. Application for declarator and petition for completion of title
to the Sheriff of Chancery. 257 252 15. Issue of chancery extract. 119 117
Summary cause/simple procedure 16. Summons for summary cause or claim form for
simple procedure case(NOTE: includes European small claim procedure and fee
covers issue of extract decree or issue of decision)— actions for payment of
money of  £300  or less(or 250 euros for European small claims), 20 20 other
actions, 112 110 on the marking of an appeal or the sending of an appeal form
to the sheriff court. 65 64 Criminal procedure 42 41 17. Summary complaint
raising a private prosecution. Road Traffic Offenders Act 1988 101 99 18.
Petition for removal of disqualification. Miscellaneous 20 20 19. Application
under section 4 of the Requirements of Writing (Scotland) Act 1995. 20.
Caveat. 48 47 21. Any proceedings under section 12 or 18 of the Civil
Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982. 29 28 22. Note in a liquidation or
judicial factory. 42 41 Defender’s responses 23. First writ, reponing note,
application for recall of decree or attendance to state a defence or oppose an
interim order (fee payable by each defender or compearer) (NOTE: fee covers
issue of extract decree)— in proceedings to which paragraph 5 of this Table
applies, 141 138 in an action of divorce or dissolution of a civil partnership
(other than a simplified divorce or dissolution of civil partnership). 168 165
Civil court procedure Payable by pursuer 24. Lodging of a certified copy
record under the Ordinary Cause Rules (NOTE: fee payable only once in respect
of a cause). 126 124 25. Lodging of a certified closed record under the
additional procedure of the Ordinary Cause Rules. 126 124 26. Fixing,
allocating or assigning of a proof, a debate or a hearing in a summary or
miscellaneous application on the merits of the cause. 60 59 27. For each day
or part thereof of proof, debate or hearing in a summary or miscellaneous
application on the merits of the cause (NOTE: not payable if the proof, debate
or hearing does not proceed on that day). 256 251 28. Initial lodging of
affidavits in a family action where proof by affidavit evidence has been
allowed. 73 72 Payable by any party (including pursuer) 29. Lodging of a
written motion or minute and the lodging of any written opposition to any such
motion or minute (NOTE: where a minute is accompanied by a relevant written
motion no fee is payable in respect of lodging the motion). 54 53 30. Marking
an appeal to the sheriff principal in any proceedings (other than as provided
for in paragraph 16(c) of this Table). 126 124 Sheriff court books 29 28 31.
Recording protest of a bill or promissory note (NOTE: Extracts to be charged
as in paragraph 36 of this Table). 32. Preservation of deeds, each deed (NOTE:
This includes recording and engrossing. If extracts are required, a separate
fee is to be charged as in paragraph 36 of this Table). 13 13 Miscellaneous
office procedures 81 79 33. Lodging each set of plans or other Parliamentary
deposit. 34. Inspection of report of auction and the auditor of court’s
report. 20 20 35. Search and report service as instructed by a trade
protection society, licensed credit reference agency or trade publication of
protests of relevant court records as appropriately included in the Ordinary
Cause Rules, with the fees payable in advance weekly for 12 months. 390 382
36. Recording, engrossing, extracting, printing or copying of all documents,
except as provided for at paragraph 4 of this Table (exclusive of search fee)—
by photocopying or otherwise producing a printed or typed copy— up to 10
pages, 7 7 each page or part thereof in excess of 10 pages, 0.50 0.50 for a
copy of each document in electronic form. 7 7 (NOTE: Recording in Sheriff
Court Register of Deeds to be charged as in paragraph 31.) 37. Any search of
records or archives, except as provided for at paragraph 4 of this Table, per
30 minutes or part thereof.— 13 13 In addition, correspondence fee where
applicable. 13 13 38. Citation of, or intimation to, any person or persons by
sheriff officer as instructed by the sheriff clerk. 13 plus sheriff officer’s
fee 13 plus sheriff officer’s fee PART III — AUDITOR OF COURT 39. Taxing
accounts of expenses incurred in judicial proceedings remitted to the auditor
of court for taxation— lodging account for taxation, 49 48 taxing accounts of
expenses etc.— 23 22 up to £400, for every additional £100 or part thereof. 5
5 (NOTE: Fee to be determined by auditor of court on amount of account as
submitted.) cancellation of diet of taxation— 50% of fee that would have been
payable under sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 50% of fee that would have
been payable under sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph where written notice of
cancellation received from receiving party after 4.00 pm on the fourth working
day before the day of diet of taxation, where written notice of cancellation
received from receiving party after 4.00 pm on the second working day before
the day of the diet of taxation. 75% of fee that would have been payable under
sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph 75% of fee that would have been payable
under sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph

##### Sheriff Personal Injury Court

  Payable from 1 April 2024       Column 1 Column 2 Column 3 (Matters) (Fee
Payable) (Fee Formerly Payable) £ £   1. Lodging of a written motion or minute
and the lodging of any written opposition to any such motion or minute. (NOTE:
where a minute is accompanied by a relevant written motion no fee is payable
in respect of lodging the motion.) 60 59 2. Fixing, allocating or assigning of
a proof or trial, a debate or a hearing on the merits of the cause. 65 64 3.
Hearing fee: per 30 minutes or part thereof. 89 87 4. Lodging a certified copy
closed record. (NOTE: fee payable only once in respect of a cause). 119 117 5.
Initial writ. (NOTE: fee covers issue of extract decree). 241 237 6. Lodging
defences (fee payable by each defender or compearer). (NOTE: fee covers issue
of extract decree). 241 237 7. Citation of a civil jury.   (NOTE: includes
outlays incurred in citing and countermanding, and is payable on the lodging
of a proposed issue for jury trial.)   336 329 8. Certified copy of a
document. 20 20

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order makes provision for the fees payable in the sheriff court, to the
sheriff clerk or the auditor of court (as appropriate).

Article 3 and schedules 1 to 3 specify fee levels payable in a sheriff court
in respect of certain matters.       The fee levels for the period from 1 July
2022 until 31 March 2023 are given effect by the Tables of Fees in schedule 1.
The fee levels for the period from 1 April 2023 until 31 March 2024 are given
effect by the Tables of Fees in schedule 2.           The fee levels from 1
April 2024 onwards are given effect by the Tables of Fees in schedule 3.

Article 3(3) provides that fees are not to be payable by the Crown in the
enforcement of the criminal law or in the exercise of powers or the
performance of duties arising out of or relating to that enforcement.

Article 3(4) provides that the relevant office holders are not required to do
any act in connection with the matter specified in relation to that fee
without either prior payment of the fee or entering into an arrangement for
payment of the fee.

Article 4 provides that certain fees are payable only once.

Article 5 provides for matters (extract decrees or registration or renewals of
registration) included in certain fees.

Article 6 provides for fees payable in the Sheriff Personal Injury Court.

Article 7 provides for cases in which an extra fee is payable.

Articles 8 and 9 provide exemption for certain persons from fees.

Article 10 provides that the fee exemptions in articles 8 and 9 (concerned
with legal aid and social security respectively) do not apply in certain
cases.

Article 11 provides for exemption in connection with estates exempt from
inheritance tax.

Articles 12 and 13 provides for exemption relating to particular proceedings.

Article 14 provides for certain motions in the Sheriff Personal Injury Court
to be exempted from fees.

Article 15 revokes the Sheriff Court Fees Order 2018 (and an amending
instrument).

A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared for this Order
and placed in the Scottish Parliament Information Centre. Copies can be
obtained from the Scottish Government Justice Directorate, St Andrews House,
Edinburgh EH1 3DG.

