Title: The Passport (Fees) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-08-21
Description: These Regulations set out the fees charged under powers set out in the Immigration Act 2016 (c. 19) for administering applications for passports. The fees were previously included in the Passport (Fees) Regulations 2018 (S.I. 2018/414) (“the 2018 Regulations”) which are revoked by regulation 6 of these Regulations.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/660

## The Passport (Fees) Regulations 2022

    Passports

  Made   13th June 2022

  Coming into force   5th July 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 86, 87(2) and 93(6)(a) and (d) of the
Immigration Act 2016 .     A draft of these Regulations has been laid before
Parliament and has been approved by each House of Parliament in accordance
with section 93(2)(j) of that Act.         In accordance with section 87(1) of
that Act, these Regulations are made with the consent of the Treasury.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Passport (Fees) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force 22 days after the day on which they are
made.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

    “ appointment ” means the appointment referred to in paragraph (3)(a);
“ collective passport ” means a collective travel document issued to parties
of young persons pursuant to the “European agreement on travel by young
persons on collective passports between the member countries of the Council of
Europe” done at Paris, on 16th December 1961 ;         “ dependant ” in
relation to another person (“ P ”), means a person who is P’s husband, wife,
civil partner, son, daughter, stepson, stepdaughter, father, mother, grandson,
granddaughter, grandfather or grandmother and who is financially dependent on
P on the date on which the application is made by or in respect of P;
“ fast track collect service ” means the service under which—       an
application for a passport is administered under the fast track service; and
the prospective passport holder or another person acting on their behalf
collects the passport in person;             “ fast track service ” means a
service under which the administration of an application for a passport is to
be completed within eight working days of that application having been made;
“ frequent traveller passport application ” means an application for a
passport which, if successful, would result in the issue of a passport of 50
pages;         “ over-16 prospective passport holder ” means a prospective
passport holder who is aged 16 years or over;         “ premium service ”
means a service under which—       the administration of an application for a
passport is to be completed at the time the application is made or within 24
hours of that time; and       the prospective passport holder or another
person acting on their behalf collects the passport in person;             “
priority services ” means the fast track service, the fast track collect
service and the premium service;         “ prospective passport holder ” means
a person who makes an application to be issued with a passport, or in respect
of whom such an application is made;         “standard fee”, in respect of a
passport application, means the fee, specified in the table in paragraph 2 of
the Schedule, which—       corresponds with the category (specified in the
first column of the table) into which the prospective passport holder falls;
and       applies where the application is made online and the prospective
passport holder lives in the United Kingdom;             “ standard passport
application ” means any application for a passport which is not—
administered under the priority services;       a frequent traveller passport
application; or       an application for a collective passport;             “
under-16 prospective passport holder ” means a prospective passport holder who
is aged under 16 years;         “ working day ” means a day which is not a
Saturday or Sunday, Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under the
Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971  in the part of the United Kingdom in
which the application is administered.

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, references to the administration of an
application for a passport include—

2.2.a

where necessary, arranging an appointment;

2.2.b

receiving and processing all necessary evidence supporting the application;

2.2.c

processing the application; and

2.2.d

arriving at a decision on whether or not to issue the passport.

2.3

An application for a passport is deemed to have been made—

2.3.a

in the case of an application to be administered under the priority services,
when the prospective passport holder or a person acting on their behalf
attends an appointment at Her Majesty’s Passport Office with the necessary
documentation enabling the administration of the application to be completed;

2.3.b

for the purposes of any other application, when Her Majesty’s Passport Office
has all the necessary information enabling the administration of the
application to be completed.

2.4

Subject to regulation 3(6), in these Regulations, any reference to the age of
a prospective passport holder is a reference to their age on the day on which
the application for a passport is made by or in respect of them.

### Fees

3

3.1

Subject to paragraph (2) a fee is to be charged in respect of—

3.1.a

the administration by the Secretary of State of applications for passports
specified in Parts 1 to 3 of the Schedule; and

3.1.b

the exercise of the functions of the Secretary of State specified in Part 4 of
the Schedule.

3.2

The fee specified in Parts 1 to 3 of the Schedule in relation to the priority
services includes a fee of £30 for arranging the appointment (“the booking
fee”).

3.3

No fee is to be charged for administering a standard passport application
where it is made by post or online (other than an application made under the
priority services) if the prospective passport holder was born on or before
2nd September 1929.

3.4

The fee payable by a prospective passport holder for an application is to be
found in a table in Parts 1 and 2 of the Schedule that specifies fees for the
type of application made and, within that table, is the amount specified in
the entry in the final column that corresponds with the category of
prospective passport holder (specified in the first column) into which the
prospective passport holder falls and, where specified in the table, the place
where they live, the method of application and the type of priority service
under which the application is to be administered.

3.5

The fee payable by a prospective passport holder in respect of a function
specified in the table in Part 4 of the Schedule is the amount specified in
the entry in the final column that corresponds with the function specified in
the first column of that table.

3.6

A prospective passport holder who is 15 years of age may, within 3 weeks
before their 16th birthday, pay the fee payable by or in respect of a
prospective passport holder of 16 years of age or over (but not a fee falling
within paragraph (3)).

### Waivers

4

4.1

Any fee for arranging delivery of a passport in relation to an application
made outside the United Kingdom must be waived where the delivery of the
passport is to a British Forces Post Office address or a United Kingdom
address and the prospective passport holder—

4.1.a

is a member of, or attached to, Her Majesty’s armed forces or a dependant of
such a person, and the application is checked and submitted to Her Majesty’s
Passport Office by armed forces personnel who are nominated for that purpose;

4.1.b

is a member of, or attached to, Her Majesty’s Diplomatic Service, or a
dependant of such a person, and the application has been made in that official
capacity;

4.1.c

is an officer of Her Majesty’s Government , or a dependant of such a person,
and the application has been made in that official capacity; or

4.1.d

was born on or before 2nd September 1929.

4.2

Any fee that is payable by virtue of these Regulations may be waived where Her
Majesty’s Government has activated Exceptional Assistance Measures overseas
and the person required to pay the fee has been directly affected by the
incident in relation to which the Exceptional Assistance Measures have been
activated.

4.3

Any fee that is payable by virtue of these Regulations may be waived where
there is a crisis in the United Kingdom or overseas and the person paying the
fee has been directly affected by the crisis.

4.4

In this regulation—

    “ crisis ” means an incident in which at least five British citizens have
been killed or injured, or are in danger of being killed;         “
Exceptional Assistance Measures ” means measures activated in accordance with
the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office policy set out in the House
of Commons written statement made on 10th December 2015: Exceptional
Assistance Measures for Victims of Terrorist Incidents Overseas .

### Refund of fees

5

5.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the Secretary of State may refund any fee,
or any part of a fee, paid under these Regulations.

5.2

A fee charged under regulation 3(1) in relation to an application to be
administered under the priority services may not be refunded if the
prospective passport holder or another person acting on their behalf—

5.2.a

has made an appointment; and

5.2.b

fails to attend the appointment without informing Her Majesty’s Passport
Office prior to the appointment that they were unable to attend the
appointment,

unless the Secretary of State determines, in any particular case, that it may
be refunded.

5.3

The booking fee referred to in regulation 3(2) may not be refunded if an
appointment is cancelled by the prospective passport holder or another person
acting on their behalf less than 48 hours before the time when it is due to
take place unless the Secretary of State determines, in any particular case,
that it may be refunded.

### Revocation

6

The Passport (Fees) Regulations 2018  are revoked.

    We consent to the making of these Regulations     Alan Mak   Rebecca
Harris   Two of the Lords Commissioners of Her Majesty’s Treasury   13th June
2022       Kevin Foster   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Home Office
13th June 2022

FEES FOR PASSPORT APPLICATIONS ETC.

Regulation 3

##### STANDARD PASSPORT APPLICATIONS

1

This Part specifies the fees for standard passport applications.

2

Except where the application—

2.a

is administered under the priority services; or

2.b

is made by, or in respect of, a prospective passport holder who is in a
category specified in the table in paragraph 5,

the fees are as follows—

Category  of prospective passport holder Where the prospective passport holder
lives Method of application Fee Under-16 prospective passport holder In the
United Kingdom Online £57.50 In the United Kingdom Postal £69 Outside the
United Kingdom Online £65.50 Outside the United Kingdom Postal £77 Over-16
prospective passport holder In the United Kingdom Online £88.50 In the United
Kingdom Postal £100 Outside the United Kingdom Online £101 Outside the United
Kingdom Postal £112.50

3

3.1

This paragraph and paragraph 4 apply where the application is administered
under one of the priority services.

3.2

                      Where the prospective passport holder is an under-16
prospective passport holder or an over-16 prospective passport holder born
after 2nd September 1929 and—

3.2.a

the application is administered under the fast track service, the fee is   the
standard fee plus £78 ;

3.2.b

the application is administered under the premium service, the fee is   the
standard fee plus £119 .

3.3

Where the prospective passport holder is an over-16 prospective passport
holder born on or before 2nd September 1929 and—

3.3.a

the application is administered under the fast track service, the fee is  £78
;

3.3.b

the application is administered under the premium service, the fee is  £119 .

4

The fee for applications administered under the fast track collect service is
the fee for the fast track service specified in paragraph 3(2)(a) or, as the
case may be, (3)(a), plus £23.50 .

5

The following table specifies the fees for the purposes of paragraph 2(b)—

Category of prospective passport holder Method of application Fee A member of,
or a person attached to, Her Majesty’s Diplomatic Service, or an officer of
Her Majesty’s Government where the passport is applied for by the prospective
passport holder in his or her official capacity Online or Postal The standard
fee A dependant of a member of Her Majesty’s Diplomatic Service, or a
dependant of an officer of Her Majesty’s Government Online or Postal The
standard fee A member of, or a person attached to, Her Majesty’s armed forces,
or a dependant of such a person aged 16 years or over Online The standard fee
Postal The fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal application
made by, or in respect of, an over-16 prospective passport holder who lives in
the United Kingdom A dependant aged under 16 years of a person who is a member
of, or attached to, Her Majesty’s armed forces Online The standard fee Postal
The fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal application made
by, or in respect of, an under-16 prospective passport holder who lives in the
United Kingdom A member of, or a person attached to, Her Majesty’s armed
forces where the application is checked and submitted to Her Majesty’s
Passport Office by armed forces personnel who are nominated for that purpose
The fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal application made
by, or in respect of, an over-16 prospective passport holder who lives in the
United Kingdom

##### FREQUENT TRAVELLER PASSPORT APPLICATIONS

6

This Part specifies the fees for frequent traveller passport applications.

7

Except where—

7.a

the application is administered under the priority services;

7.b

the prospective passport holder lives outside the United Kingdom;

7.c

the application is made by post; or

7.d

the prospective passport holder is in a category specified in the table in
paragraph 12,

the fee is   the standard fee plus £12 .

8

8.1

This paragraph and paragraph 9 apply where the application is administered
under one of the priority services.

8.2

Where—

8.2.a

the application is administered under the fast track service, the fee is   the
standard fee plus £90 ;

8.2.b

the application is administered under the premium service, the fee is   the
standard fee plus £131 .

9

The fee for applications administered under the fast track collect service is
the    the fee for the fast track service specified in paragraph 8(2)(a) plus
£23.50 .

10

Where paragraph 7(b) applies, the fee is   the appropriate fee specified in
paragraph 2 for an application made by a prospective passport holder who lives
outside the United Kingdom plus £12 .

11

Where paragraph 7(c) applies, the fee is   the appropriate fee specified in
paragraph 2 for an application made by a prospective passport holder by post
plus £12 .

12

The following table specifies the fees for the purposes of paragraph 7(d)—

Category of prospective passport holder Method of application Fee A member of,
or a person attached to, His Majesty’s armed forces, or a dependant of such a
person aged 16 years or over Online   The standard fee plus £12   Postal   The
fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal application made by, or
in respect of, an over-16 prospective passport holder who lives in the United
Kingdom plus £12   A dependent aged under 16 years of a person who is a member
of, or attached to, His Majesty’s armed forces Online   The standard fee plus
£12   Postal   The fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal
application made by, or in respect of, an under-16 prospective passport holder
who lives in the United Kingdom plus £12   A member of, or a person attached
to, His Majesty’s armed forces where the application is checked and submitted
to His Majesty’s Passport Office by armed forces personnel who are nominated
for that purpose   The fee specified in the table in paragraph 2 for a postal
application made by, or in respect of, an over-16 prospective passport holder
who lives in the United Kingdom plus £12

##### COLLECTIVE PASSPORTS

13

The fee for an application for a collective passport—

13.a

made by post is £39;

13.b

made in person is £54.

##### FEES FOR OTHER FUNCTIONS

14

The fees specified in the second column of the following table are payable in
respect of the carrying out of the functions specified in the corresponding
entry in the first column of that table.

Function Fee Arranging the return of supporting documents accompanying up to
four passport applications made in the United Kingdom £5 Arranging delivery of
a passport for an application made outside the United Kingdom and if the
application is successful, delivering the passport— To an address in the
United Kingdom (including a British Forces Post Office address) £5 To a United
Kingdom embassy, High Commission or consulate by diplomatic channels £11.41 To
an address, not being one of the above, specified by the prospective passport
holder or the Secretary of State £9.70 Forwarding an application or up to four
passport applications made outside the United Kingdom to a passport office in
the United Kingdom to be administered where the prospective passport holder
(or one of the prospective passport holders) was born after 2nd September 1929
£13.31 Arranging the return of supporting documents accompanying an
application or applications (up to a maximum of 4 applications) made outside
the United Kingdom for a passport — To an address in the United Kingdom £5 To
an overseas address specified by the prospective passport holder or the
Secretary of State, where the prospective passport holder (or one of the
prospective passport holders) was born after 2nd September 1929 £10.16

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations set out the fees charged under powers set out in the
Immigration Act  2016 (c. 19)  for administering applications for passports.
The fees were previously included in the Passport (Fees) Regulations 2018 (
S.I. 2018/414 ) (“ the 2018 Regulations ”) which are revoked by regulation 6
of these Regulations.

The 2018 Regulations provided for optional “priority services” offered by Her
Majesty’s Passport Office, which were defined as the “fast track collect
service”, the “fast track service”, the “premium collect service” and the
“premium service”. These Regulations clarify the definitions of those services
under which passport applications may be administered and specify that the
fees for the priority services include a booking fee (regulation 3(2)). The
Schedule to these Regulations sets out the various fees payable in a different
format to that set out in the Schedule to the 2018 Regulations but does not
change the fee amounts prescribed by the 2018 Regulations.

Regulation 3(6) provides that a prospective passport holder who is 15 years of
age may pay the fee payable by a prospective passport holder aged 16 years or
over (but not a fee falling within regulation 3(3)). In these circumstances
the application will be administered after the prospective passport holder’s
16th birthday as if they had applied after that date.

No fee or a reduced fee is charged for most functions where the prospective
passport holder was born on or before 2nd September 1929.

Certain fees may be waived as set out in regulation 4. Delivery fees are
waived for certain members of the armed forces and Her Majesty’s Diplomatic
Service in some circumstances. Fees specified in these Regulations may also be
waived as a result of a crisis or Exceptional Assistance Measures having been
activated overseas by the Government. The circumstances in which these might
apply, as set out in regulation 4, are comparable to the Foreign, Commonwealth
and Development Office policy on providing assistance to British nationals
overseas.

Regulation 5(2) provides that the appropriate fee will not be refunded if a
prospective passport holder fails to attend an appointment for their
application to be administered under the priority services without giving
prior notice. Regulation 5(3) provides that the booking fee in regulation 3(2)
will not be refunded if the prospective passport holder cancels an appointment
less than 48 hours before it is due to take place. In both cases, the
Secretary of State may nevertheless determine to make a refund in any
particular individual case.

Hard copies of the documents specified in these Regulations to which links
have been provided may be obtained from Her Majesty’s Passport Office, P.O.
Box 767, Southport, PR8 9PW.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument because no,
or no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is
foreseen.

