Title: The Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-02-28
Description: These Regulations make provision for the pass-through requirement in relation to the Energy Bill Relief Scheme (EBRS) in England and Wales and Scotland. The pass-through requirement is imposed on a person who supplies and charges for the supply of heating or hot water to an end user through a heat network using energy in respect of which the person has been provided a scheme benefit (“intermediary”). It requires the intermediary to pass on the benefits of the EBRS scheme to its end users.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1101

## The Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022

  Regulations made by the Secretary of State, laid before Parliament under
sections 19(13) and 26(5) of the Energy Prices Act 2022, for approval by
resolution of each House of Parliament within 28 days beginning with the day
on which these Regulations were made, subject to extension for periods of
dissolution, prorogation or adjournment for more than four days.

    Energy

  Made   at 3.31 p.m. on 27th October 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.00 p.m. on 31st October 2022

  Coming into force   1st November 2022

      The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections
19 and 26(2) of the Energy Prices Act 2022 , makes the following Regulations.

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through
Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations
2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 1st November 2022.

1.3

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Energy Prices Act 2022;   “ authorised person ” means
the Secretary of State, or in relation to a Scottish heat network the Scottish
Ministers;     “ bill ” includes a demand for a qualifying payment within
section 19(5)(a)(ii) or (c)(ii) of the Act in respect of heating or hot water;
“ EBRS Regulations ” means the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Regulations 2022 ; “
effect a pass-through ” means pass on to an end user an amount calculated
under regulation 6;   “ end user ”, in relation to an intermediary, means an
end user who falls within section 19(3)(b) or (c) of the Act;   “ heat network
” means a network that, by distributing a liquid or a gas, enables the
transfer of thermal energy for the purpose of supplying heating or hot water
to a building or persons in that building;   “intermediary”, except in
regulations 9 to 12, means a person— who is a heat supplier within the meaning
of the Metering and Billing Regulations or who otherwise supplies and charges
for the supply of heating or hot water to its end users through a heat
network; or to whom an end user makes a qualifying payment within section
19(5)(a)(ii) or (c)(ii) of the Act in respect of heating or hot water, where
that person has been provided with a scheme benefit in respect of the energy
used to produce the heating or hot water;;   “ kWh ” means kilowatt hours; “
Metering and Billing Regulations ” means the Heat Network (Metering and
Billing) Regulations 2014 ; “pass-through amount” is an amount calculated
under regulation 6; “pass-through requirement” is the requirement set out in
regulation 5; “ scheme benefit ”, in relation to the Energy Bill Relief Scheme
established by regulation 3 of the EBRS Regulations, has the meaning given in
regulation 3 of these Regulations.

2.2

A network is not excluded from being a heat network only by reason of its
being designed to rely wholly or in part on heat pumps particular to the
buildings or premises served by the network.

2.3

References to a scheme benefit being provided to an intermediary are to be
construed in accordance with regulation 3(2) and (3).

2.4

An end user can also be an intermediary in respect of a scheme benefit
provided to that end user and vice versa.

2.5

In these Regulations, any reference to a heat supplier within the meaning of
the Metering and Billing Regulations must be read as if the words “cooling or”
were omitted from the definition of that term.

### Energy price support provided by the Energy Bill Relief Scheme

3

3.1

In these Regulations, “ scheme benefit ” means—

3.1.a

the discount applied to the supply price under a supply contract between an
energy supplier and an intermediary in any billing period under regulation 19
of the EBRS Regulations, expressed as an amount in pounds sterling or in
pounds sterling per kWh of energy  ;

3.1.b

where the intermediary is a QFDC, required reductions applied to a qualifying
amount payable by the QFDC in respect of its qualifying supply in any billing
period under regulation 53 of the EBRS Regulations, expressed as an amount in
pounds sterling or in pounds sterling per kWh of energy  ; or

3.1.c

where the intermediary is also an end user, the pass-through amount provided
to the end user by virtue of these Regulations.

3.2

A scheme benefit is provided to an intermediary—

3.2.a

when the energy supplier informs the intermediary under regulation 19(1)(d) of
the EBRS Regulations of the discount that has been applied to the supply price
under the supply contract;

3.2.b

where the intermediary is a QFDC, when the energy supplier informs the QFDC
under regulation 53(1)(c) of the EBRS Regulations of the amount of the
required reductions or the basis on which they can be determined; or

3.2.c

where the intermediary is also an end user, when a pass-through amount is
provided to it by virtue of these Regulations.

3.3

A scheme benefit that has been provided to an intermediary is not treated as
having been provided to the extent that the intermediary has notified the
energy supplier that the discount or any required reductions have been applied
in error and the intermediary is taking reasonable steps to correct the error
in accordance with requirements by or under the EBRS Regulations.

3.4

In this regulation—

“ energy supplier ” means a licensed electricity supplier  or a licensed gas
supplier ; and “ QFDC ” means a qualifying financially disadvantaged customer
within the meaning of Part 5 of the EBRS Regulations.

### Provision of information to end users

4

4.1

Within 30 days beginning with the day on which an intermediary is provided
with a scheme benefit (or within 30 days beginning with the day on which these
Regulations come into force, whichever is the later), the intermediary must
notify each of its end users in writing that it has been provided with a
scheme benefit.

4.2

The notice must specify—

4.2.a

the amount of the scheme benefit;

4.2.b

the period in respect of which the scheme benefit has been provided;

4.2.c

details of the pass-through requirement;

4.2.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.2.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.2.f

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

4.2.g

when and how the intermediary will effect the pass-through;

4.2.h

details of how the end user may resolve any dispute with the intermediary
about how the intermediary has complied with the pass-through requirement,
including how the intermediary has calculated the pass-through amount;

4.2.i

that the end user may make a complaint to the Energy Ombudsman on any of the
following grounds—

4.2.i.i

the intermediary has not notified the end user in writing that the
intermediary has been provided with a scheme benefit;

4.2.i.ii

the intermediary has not notified the end user in writing of when and how it
will effect the pass-through;

4.2.i.iii

the intermediary has not effected the pass-through within the timeframe
specified in regulation 5;

4.2.i.iv

the intermediary has not otherwise complied with the pass-through requirement;

4.2.j

that if the pass-through amount to which an end user is entitled by virtue of
these Regulations is not provided to the end user, it is entitled to recover
it from the intermediary as a civil debt pursuant to regulation 8.

4.3

An intermediary has complied with the notification requirements in this
regulation if and to the extent it has taken reasonable steps to notify an end
user but is unable to do so.

### Pass-through requirement

5

5.1

An intermediary must ensure that, as soon as reasonably practicable after it
has been provided with a scheme benefit, it provides to each of its end users
a pass-through amount in respect of the scheme benefit (“pass-through
requirement”).

5.2

An intermediary must comply with the pass-through requirement no later than
the day on which the intermediary issues the next bill to the end user.

5.3

An intermediary must comply with the requirements for bills and billing
information under regulation 7 when it issues the next bill to an end user.

5.4

Without prejudice to paragraph (1), a pass-through can be effected by one or
more of the following methods—

5.4.a

application of a credit in the next bill provided to the end user;

5.4.b

a payment in cash or by any other means, including a bank transfer;

5.4.c

adjusting the fixed and variable charges in the next bill provided to the end
user;

5.4.d

adjusting the amount of money taken pursuant to a direct debit or the amount
of a standing order;

5.4.e

set off against an amount or part of an amount which was owed by the end user
to the intermediary at the time the scheme benefit was provided to the
intermediary.

5.5

If the contract between the intermediary and the end user expires or is
terminated before the intermediary has effected a pass-through, the
intermediary must effect a pass-through to reflect the end user’s entitlement
(or remaining entitlement) under these Regulations as soon as reasonably
practicable following such expiry or termination.

5.6

An intermediary has complied with the pass-through requirement if and to the
extent it has taken reasonable steps to effect the pass-through but is unable
to do so.

5.7

An intermediary has not complied with the pass-through requirement if—

5.7.a

in its capacity as customer under the EBRS Regulations, it serves an opt-out
notice on a supplier pursuant to regulation 4(4) of the EBRS Regulations; or

5.7.b

it fails to take all such reasonable steps as may be necessary to secure that
it is provided with the scheme benefit to which it is entitled.

5.8

Where an end user is also an intermediary in respect of a scheme benefit
provided to that end user, that end user must comply with the pass-through
requirement.

5.9

In this regulation, “ next bill ” means—

5.9.a

in relation to the first scheme benefit provided to an intermediary, the later
of—

5.9.a.i

the first bill issued after 30th November 2022; and

5.9.a.ii

the first bill issued after the end of the period of 30 days beginning with
the day on which the scheme benefit is provided to the intermediary; or

5.9.b

in relation to any subsequent scheme benefit provided to the intermediary, the
first bill issued after the end of the period of 30 days beginning with the
day on which the scheme benefit is provided to the intermediary.

### Calculation of pass-through amount

6

6.1

The amount which an intermediary must pass on to an end user under the pass-
through requirement is an amount in pounds sterling or in pounds sterling per
kWh of energy which comprises all of the scheme benefit, or if less than the
amount of scheme benefit, a just and reasonable amount calculated in
accordance with this regulation (“pass-through amount”).

6.2

If the pass-through amount is less than the amount of scheme benefit, the
intermediary must provide evidence to the end user showing what factors it
took into account in determining that the pass-through amount was just and
reasonable.

6.3

In determining what is a just and reasonable pass-through amount, the
intermediary may take account of—

6.3.a

the amount the intermediary paid for the energy in respect of which the scheme
benefit was provided (“the input energy”);

6.3.b

other costs incurred by the intermediary in supplying heating or hot water to
its end users in the period for which the scheme benefit was provided
(“relevant period”); and

6.3.c

any loss incurred where, as a result of a relevant change in the price of
energy , the total amount charged to end users for the supply of heating and
hot water in the relevant period is less than the amount paid for the total
quantity of input energy.

6.4

Subject to paragraph (3), a pass-through amount is just and reasonable where—

6.4.a

at the time the intermediary was provided with the scheme benefit, the
intermediary was charging the end user either—

6.4.a.i

based on the proportion of the total quantity of input energy which the end
user’s usage represented; or

6.4.a.ii

based on the proportion of the total amount paid by the intermediary for
energy in a period which the amount paid by the end user for the supply of
heating and hot water in that period represented; and

6.4.b

the intermediary calculates the pass-through amount for the end user on this
basis.

6.5

If paragraph (4) does not apply, the intermediary in determining what is a
just and reasonable pass-through amount—

6.5.a

must apply the best available information to allocate the scheme benefit
amongst end users; and

6.5.b

may take into account the basis on which the intermediary was allocating
charges amongst end users at the time the intermediary was provided with the
scheme benefit.

6.6

The pass-through amount for a person who is an end user for part of a relevant
period must be calculated only for that part of the relevant period for which
they were an end user.

6.7

In calculating a pass-through amount—

6.7.a

an intermediary is not required to pass on to its end users an aggregate
amount that exceeds the amount of scheme benefit provided to the intermediary;

6.7.b

an intermediary which is also an end user must not retain more of the scheme
benefit for itself—

6.7.b.i

than is proportionate to its own end user’s usage; or

6.7.b.ii

than the proportion of the amount the intermediary paid for the total quantity
of input energy that the intermediary itself bears (where it is not
practicable to assess the quantity of its own end user’s usage);

6.7.c

an intermediary may include the quantity of heating or hot water supplied to
common areas in a building as part of its own end user’s usage if the
intermediary was not charging end users for this as part of the arrangements
in place at the time the intermediary was provided with the scheme benefit.

6.8

In this regulation, “ end user’s usage ” means the total quantity of input
energy in kWh used in a relevant period to supply heating and hot water to an
end user in that period.

### Provision of billing information to end users

7

7.1

This regulation applies to—

7.1.a

any bill issued to an end user for the supply of heating or hot water in
respect of a period for which the intermediary has been provided a scheme
benefit; and

7.1.b

any billing information (as defined in regulation 2 of the Metering and
Billing Regulations) provided with that bill.

7.2

The requirements in regulation 9 of the Metering and Billing Regulations apply
in respect of the bill and billing information, subject to the following
modifications.

7.3

That regulation is to be read as if—

7.3.a

a reference to a final customer is a reference to an end user;

7.3.b

a reference to a heat supplier is a reference to an intermediary;

7.3.c

paragraph (1) requires bills to be issued to every end user, whether or not
meters or heat cost allocators are installed;

7.3.d

where meters or heat cost allocators are not installed, subparagraphs (a) and
(b) of paragraph (1) are omitted;

7.3.e

paragraphs (2) and (3) are omitted;

7.3.f

where meters or heat cost allocators are not installed, paragraph (4) provides
that a bill may be based on an estimate of consumption;

7.3.g

in paragraph (7)—

7.3.g.i

after subparagraph (b) there is inserted—

7.3.g.i.ba

provide clear information about how the pass-through amount has been
calculated, how the intermediary has determined that the pass-through amount
is just and reasonable, and must state the final reduction amount;

; and

7.3.g.ii

after subparagraph (c) there is inserted—

7.3.g.ii.ca

the information contained in the bill must include the amount the intermediary
paid for the energy in respect of which the scheme benefit was provided and
the amount charged to the end user.

.

7.4

For the purposes of this regulation, Schedule 2 to the Metering and Billing
Regulations applies, but is to be read as if paragraph 6 is omitted.

### Enforcement of pass-through requirement

8

8.1

Where an intermediary fails to comply with the pass-through requirement, the
end user may—

8.1.a

recover the pass-through amount from the intermediary as a civil debt; and

8.1.b

claim interest to be paid by the intermediary on such amount at a rate of 2%
per cent per annum over the Bank of England base rate from the date 60 days
after the date on which the scheme benefit to which the pass-through
requirement relates was provided to the intermediary.

8.2

For the purposes of this regulation, the “ Bank of England base rate ” means—

8.2.a

the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets; or

8.2.b

where an order under section 19 of the Bank of England Act 1998  (reserve
powers) is in force, any equivalent rate determined by the Treasury under that
section.

### Establishment of consumer redress scheme

9

9.1

For the purpose of section 19(10)(d) of the Act, Part 2 of the Consumers,
Estate Agents and Redress Act 2007 applies to end users, subject to the
following modifications.

9.2

Part 2 of that Act is to be read as if—

9.2.a

a reference to a regulated provider is a reference to an intermediary;

9.2.b

a reference to a relevant consumer is a reference to a microbusiness end user
or a domestic end user;

9.2.c

any reference to a regulator or a relevant regulator is omitted;

9.2.d

the Secretary of State has made an order under section 47(1)(b) of that Act
requiring all intermediaries to be members of a redress scheme administered by
the Secretary of State (or a person appointed by the Secretary of State) and
designated by the Secretary of State as an appropriate redress scheme in
relation to them;

9.2.e

the order provides that the redress scheme is for the investigation of
complaints made against an intermediary by or on behalf of a person in that
person’s capacity as a microbusiness end user or a domestic end user of the
intermediary (“consumer complaints”);

9.2.f

the redress scheme is a scheme under which consumer complaints may be made to,
and investigated and determined by, the Energy Ombudsman;

9.2.g

the Energy Ombudsman may provide a microbusiness end user or a domestic end
user with the following types of redress—

9.2.g.i

providing an apology or explanation;

9.2.g.ii

paying compensation; and

9.2.g.iii

taking such other action in the interests of the end user as the Energy
Ombudsman may specify;

9.2.h

section 52 of that Act provides for enforcement by civil sanctions under
Schedule 4 to the Metering and Billing Regulations (as modified by
regulations 10 and 12   of these Regulations) of the requirement for an
intermediary to be a member of the redress scheme;

9.2.i

the order comes into force on the day on which these Regulations come into
force.

9.3

In this regulation—

  “ domestic end user ”, in relation to an intermediary, means an end user who
purchases heating or hot water for domestic use from the intermediary;     “
intermediary ” means— a heat supplier within the meaning of the Metering and
Billing Regulations; or a person who otherwise supplies and charges for the
supply of heating or hot water to its end users through a heat network, where
that person has been provided with a scheme benefit in accordance with
regulation 3(2)(a) or (b) of these Regulations in respect of the energy used
to produce the heating or hot water;     “ microbusiness end user ”, in
relation to an intermediary, means an end user who purchases heating or hot
water from the intermediary for use in a business which employs fewer than 10
employees and has an annual turnover or balance sheet total no greater than £2
million.

### Enforcement of requirement to join redress scheme

10

10.1

An intermediary   within the meaning of regulation 9  who does not comply with
the requirement to become a member of the redress scheme mentioned in
regulation 9(2)(d) is subject to civil enforcement action of the kind
described in Schedule 4 to the Metering and Billing Regulations.

10.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), that Schedule applies to intermediaries
subject to the following modifications.

10.2A

After paragraph 1 insert—

######### Interpretation

10.2A.1A

In this Schedule—

“ authorised person ” means the Secretary of State, or in relation to a
Scottish heat network the Scottish Ministers; “ intermediary ” means— a heat
supplier; or a person who otherwise supplies and charges for the supply of
heating or hot water to its end users through a heat network, where that
person has been provided with a scheme benefit in accordance with regulation
3(2)(a) or (b) of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat
Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022.

######### Power to request information

########## Application of Part

10.2A.1B

This Part applies where an authorised person has reasonable grounds to suspect
that a person is an intermediary.

########## Power to require the production of information

10.2A.1C

Before imposing a compliance notice on, or accepting an enforcement
undertaking from, the person for failing to comply with the requirement
mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through
Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations
2022, the authorised person may give notice to the person requiring the person
to provide the authorised person with the information specified in the notice.

########## Procedure for notice under paragraph 1C

10.2A.1D

10.2A.1D.1

A notice under paragraph 1C must be in writing and must specify that the
information is required in order to determine if the person is an
intermediary.

10.2A.1D.2

The notice may specify—

10.2A.1D.2.a

the time within which and the manner in which the person to whom it is given
must comply with it;

10.2A.1D.2.b

the form in which information must be provided.

10.2A.1D.3

The notice may require—

10.2A.1D.3.a

the creation of documents, or documents of a description, specified in the
notice; and

10.2A.1D.3.b

the provision of those documents to the authorised person.

10.2A.1D.4

A requirement to provide information or create a document is a requirement to
do so in a legible form.

10.2A.1D.5

A notice under paragraph 1C does not require a person to provide any
information or create any documents which the person would be entitled to
refuse to provide or produce—

10.2A.1D.5.a

in proceedings in the High Court on the grounds of legal professional
privilege; or

10.2A.1D.5.b

in proceedings in the Court of Session on the grounds of confidentiality of
communications.

10.2A.1D.6

In sub-paragraph (5)(b), “ communications ” means—

10.2A.1D.6.a

communications between a professional legal adviser and the adviser’s client;
or

10.2A.1D.6.b

communications made in connection with or in contemplation of legal
proceedings or for the purposes of those proceedings.

########## Enforcement of requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C

10.2A.1E

A person who does not comply with the requirement to provide the authorised
person with the information specified in a notice under paragraph 1C is
subject to civil enforcement action under this Schedule.

.

10.3

In paragraph 2—

10.3.a

for subparagraph (1) substitute—

10.3.a.1

This paragraph applies where an authorised person has reasonable grounds to
believe that an intermediary has failed to comply with the requirement
mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Pass-through
Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland) Regulations 2022
or the requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C of this Schedule .

;

10.3.b

in subparagraph (2)—

10.3.b.i

for “that person” substitute  “the intermediary” ;

10.3.b.ii

for “offence does not continue or recur” substitute  “intermediary complies
with that requirement” ;

10.3.c

omit subparagraph (3).

10.4

In paragraph 3(1)—

10.4.a

for “a person” substitute  “an intermediary” ;

10.4.b

for “that person” substitute  “the intermediary” .

10.5

In paragraph 4, for “A person” substitute  “An intermediary” .

10.6

In paragraph 7(1), for “The person” substitute  “An intermediary” .

10.7

Paragraph 8 is omitted.

10.8

In paragraph 9—

10.8.a

for “a person” substitute  “an intermediary” ;

10.8.b

for “suspect that the person has committed an offence under regulation 11(1)”
substitute  “believe that an intermediary has failed to comply with the
requirement mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief Scheme
Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and Scotland)
Regulations 2022”   or the requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C of this
Schedule .

10.9

In paragraph 10(1)—

10.9.a

in subparagraph (a), for “person to secure that the offence does not continue
or recur” substitute  “intermediary to secure that the intermediary complies
with the requirement mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief
Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and
Scotland) Regulations 2022”    or the requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C of
this Schedule ;

10.9.b

in subparagraph (b), for “the offence had not been committed” substitute  “the
intermediary had complied with that requirement” ;

10.9.c

in subparagraph (c), for “person to benefit any person affected by the
offence” substitute  “intermediary to benefit any person affected by the
intermediary’s failure to comply with that requirement” .

10.10

In paragraph 10(3)(c), for “a person” substitute  “the intermediary” .

10.11

Omit paragraph 11.

10.12

In paragraph 12—

10.12.a

in subparagraph (2), for “the person” substitute  “the intermediary” ;

10.12.b

in subparagraphs (3) and (5), for “person” substitute  “intermediary” .

10.13

In paragraph 13(1), for “person” substitute  “intermediary” .

10.14

In paragraph 14—

10.14.a

in sub-paragraph (2), for the words from “be a percentage” to the end
substitute  “not exceed £5,000” ;

10.14.b

omit sub-paragraph (3);

10.14.c

after sub-paragraph (7), insert—

10.14.c.8

A non-compliance penalty is recoverable by the authorised person as a civil
debt.

.

### Provision of information to an authorised person

11

11.1

An intermediary must provide an authorised person with the following
information by 6th January 2023 or within 30 days beginning with the day on
which the intermediary begins to supply heating or hot water through a heat
network, whichever is the later—

11.1.a

the name and business address of the intermediary;

11.1.b

the contact details of the intermediary.

11.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to an intermediary who begins to supply heating
or hot water through a heat network after 31st March 2023.

11.3

Information required by paragraph (1) must be provided in a form approved by
the authorised person for the purpose of this regulation.

11.4

Compliance with the notification requirements of regulation 3 of the Metering
and Billing Regulations does not satisfy the requirement to provide
information under paragraph (1).

11.5

An intermediary who is a heat supplier within the meaning of the Metering and
Billing Regulations who complies with the requirement to provide information
under paragraph (1) is not required to submit a notification under regulation
3 of the Metering and Billing Regulations before 31st March 2023.

11.6

In this regulation, “ intermediary ” means—

11.6.a

a heat supplier within the meaning of the Metering and Billing Regulations; or

11.6.b

a person who otherwise supplies and charges for the supply of heating or hot
water to its end users through a heat network—

11.6.b.i

who has been provided with a scheme benefit under regulation 3(2)(a) or (b);
or

11.6.b.ii

who will have an entitlement to a scheme benefit under regulation 3(2)(a) or
(b) who has not yet been provided with the scheme benefit.

### Enforcement of requirement to provide information

12

12.1

An intermediary who does not comply with the requirement to provide
information to an authorised person under regulation 11 is subject to civil
enforcement action of the kind described in Schedule 4 to the Metering and
Billing Regulations.

12.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), that Schedule as modified by regulation 10
of these Regulations (the modified Schedule) applies to intermediaries subject
to the following further modifications.

12.3

In the modified Schedule—

12.3.a

in paragraph 1C, after “2022” insert  “or the requirement to provide
information under regulation 11(1) of those Regulations” ;

12.3.b

in paragraphs 2(1) and 9, for the words from “comply with” to the end
substitute—

comply with—

12.3.b.a

the requirement mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief
Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and
Scotland) Regulations 2022;

12.3.b.b

the requirement to provide information under regulation 11(1) of those
Regulations;

12.3.b.c

the requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C of this Schedule

;

12.3.c

in paragraph 10(1)(a), for the words from “complies with” to the end
substitute—

complies with—

12.3.c.i

the requirement mentioned in regulation 9(2)(d) of the Energy Bill Relief
Scheme Pass-through Requirement (Heat Suppliers) (England and Wales and
Scotland) Regulations 2022;

12.3.c.ii

the requirement to provide information under regulation 11(1) of those
Regulations;

12.3.c.iii

the requirement mentioned in paragraph 1C of this Schedule

.

Graham Stuart Minister of State for Climate Department for Business, Energy
and Industrial Strategy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations make provision for the pass-through requirement in
relation to the Energy Bill Relief Scheme (EBRS) in England and Wales and
Scotland. The pass-through requirement is imposed on a person who supplies and
charges for the supply of heating or hot water to an end user through a heat
network using energy  in respect of which the person has been provided a
scheme benefit (“intermediary”). It requires the intermediary to pass on the
benefits of the EBRS scheme to its end users.

  Regulation 3 makes provision about energy price support provided by the
Energy Bill Relief Scheme. This is defined as a “scheme benefit”.

  Regulation 4 requires an intermediary who has been provided with a scheme
benefit to notify each of its end users in writing that it has been provided
with the benefit.

  Regulation 5 imposes a requirement on intermediaries to secure that a scheme
benefit provided to an intermediary is passed on to its end users as soon as
reasonably practicable after it has been provided with the scheme benefit. If
not all of the scheme benefit is being passed on to the end users,
intermediaries are required to pass on a just and reasonable amount of the
benefit to each of its end users.

  Regulation 6 defines “pass-through amount” and provides for methods of
calculating the amount and determining what is a just and reasonable pass-
through amount.

  Regulation 7 requires intermediaries to provide billing information to end
users.

  Regulation 8 provides for the end user to recover unpaid pass-through
amounts from the intermediary as a civil debt.

  Regulation 9 establishes a consumer redress scheme for end users of
intermediaries.

  Regulation 10 provides for enforcement of the requirement to join the
redress scheme.

  An impact assessment of the effect the EBRS scheme, including the related
pass-through requirements, will have on the costs of business and the
voluntary sector is available from the Department for Business, Energy and
Industrial Strategy, 1 Victoria Street, London, SW1H 0ET.

