Title: The Pharmacy (Responsible Pharmacists, Superintendent Pharmacists etc.) Order 2022
Date: 2023-04-25
Description: This Order principally makes provision relating to the position and responsibilities of a superintendent of a body corporate that is carrying on a retail pharmacy business, and in relation to the responsibilities of the responsible pharmacist who is in day to day charge of particular retail pharmacy premises.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/849

## The Pharmacy (Responsible Pharmacists, Superintendent Pharmacists etc.) Order 2022

    Medicines       Health Care And Associated Professions

  Made   19th July 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1

    At the Court at Windsor Castle, the 19th day of July 2022 Present, The
Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council         This Order in Council is
made in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 60(1)(a), (2)(aa) and
(2A) and 62(4) and (4A) of, and paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 of Schedule 3 to,
the Health Act 1999 .     The Secretary of State published a draft of this
Order in Council and invited representations as required by paragraph 9(1) of
Schedule 3 to the Health Act 1999.     The period of three months mentioned in
paragraph 9(2) of that Schedule expired before a draft of this Order in
Council, together with a report about the consultation, was laid before
Parliament.     A draft of this Order in Council has been approved by
resolution of each House of Parliament in accordance with section 62(9) of the
Health Act 1999.         Accordingly, Her Majesty is pleased, by and with the
advice of Her Privy Council, to make the following Order in Council:

### General provisions

#### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Pharmacy (Responsible Pharmacists,
Superintendent Pharmacists etc.) Order 2022.

1.2

This Part comes into force on the twenty-eighth day after the day on which
this Order is made.

1.3

Parts 2 and 3 come into force on such days as the Privy Council may by order
appoint.

1.4

Different days may be appointed under paragraph (3) for different purposes.

1.5

In this Order, “ the 1968 Act ” means the Medicines Act 1968 .

#### Extent

2

2.1

Subject to paragraph (2), this Order extends to England, Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland.

2.2

The extent of the amendments made by article 10 and Schedules 1 and 2 is the
same as the extent of the enactments amended.

#### Transitional and saving provisions

3

3.1

In connection with the commencement of any provision of Part 2 or 3, or the
Schedules, the Privy Council may by order make such transitional or saving
provisions as it considers appropriate.

3.2

The power to make an order under paragraph (1) may be exercised—

3.2.a

so as to make different provision—

3.2.a.i

for different areas,

3.2.a.ii

with respect to different cases or different classes of cases, and

3.2.a.iii

in respect of the same case or class of case for different purposes;

3.2.b

in relation to all cases to which the power extends or in relation to those
cases subject to specified exceptions; and

3.2.c

so as to make any supplementary, incidental or consequential provisions which
the Privy Council considers necessary or expedient.

#### Privy Council procedures and legislative procedures

4

4.1

Any power vested in the Privy Council to make an order under this Part may be
exercised by any two or more members of the Privy Council.

4.2

Any power of the Privy Council to make an order under this Part is exercisable
by statutory instrument, and for the purposes of section 1 of the Statutory
Instruments Act 1946  (definition of “Statutory Instrument”), any power of the
Privy Council to make an order under this Part is to be taken to be conferred
by an Act of Parliament.

4.3

An order made (wholly or partly) under article 3(1) is subject to annulment by
resolution of either House of Parliament.

4.4

Before making an order under article 1(3) that commences an amendment of the
1968 Act as it applies in Northern Ireland or an amendment of the Pharmacy
(Northern Ireland) Order 1976 , the Privy Council must obtain the agreement of
the Department of Health in Northern Ireland to the making of the order.

4.5

Any act of the Privy Council under this Part is sufficiently signified by an
instrument signed by the Clerk of the Privy Council.

4.6

Where an order of the Privy Council under this Part is signified by an
instrument purporting to be signed by the Clerk of the Privy Council, that is
evidence and in Scotland sufficient evidence of—

4.6.a

the fact that the order was duly made; and

4.6.b

the order’s terms.

### Responsible pharmacists and superintendent pharmacists

#### Responsible pharmacists

5

5.1

Section 72A of the 1968 Act  (the responsible pharmacist) is amended as
follows.

5.2

Before subsection (1) insert the following subsection—

5.2.A1

Nothing in this Part is to be taken as requiring there to be a responsible
pharmacist in respect of premises at or from which a retail pharmacy business
is carried on at a time when no medicinal products (whether they are on a
general sale list or not) are being—

5.2.A1.a

offered or exposed for sale by retail or supply in circumstances corresponding
to retail sale at or from the premises, or

5.2.A1.b

assembled, prepared or dispensed at or from the premises with a view to such
sale or supply.

.

5.3

In subsection (2), for “the Ministers in regulations” substitute  “the General
Pharmaceutical Council in rules in relation to premises in Great Britain or
the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland in regulations
in relation to premises in Northern Ireland” .

5.4

Omit subsections (3) to (5).

5.5

For subsections (6) and (7) substitute the following subsections—

5.5.6

The General Pharmaceutical Council may make further provision in rules in
relation to the responsible pharmacist in respect of premises in Great
Britain, and the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland may
make further provision in regulations in relation to the responsible
pharmacist in respect of premises in Northern Ireland.

5.5.6A

In making any such provision, the General Pharmaceutical Council and the
Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland must have regard to
the principle that the burdens imposed on businesses by rules or regulations
should be the minimum necessary to secure the benefits, considered in general
terms, which are expected to result from the rules or regulations.

5.5.7

The rules and regulations mentioned in subsection (6) may (amongst other
things)—

5.5.7.a

make further provision about the matters mentioned in subsection (1);

5.5.7.b

make provision about the responsible pharmacist’s absence from the premises.

5.5.7A

If such rules or regulations make provision about the responsible pharmacist’s
absence from the premises, they must also provide that the retail sale of
medicinal products on a general sale list may continue at or from the premises
during any period in which the responsible pharmacist is absent from the
premises.

.

5.6

Omit subsection (8).

#### Superintendent pharmacists

6

6.1

In section 71 of the 1968 Act  (business carried on by body corporate)—

6.1.a

in subsection (1), for paragraph (a) (and the following “and”), substitute the
following paragraph—

6.1.a.a

that there is a superintendent in relation to the retail pharmacy business in
respect of whom the requirements specified in subsection (6) are fulfilled,
and

;

6.1.b

in subsection (6)—

6.1.b.i

after paragraph (a), insert the following paragraph—

6.1.b.i.aa

he is a senior manager of the retail pharmacy business who has the authority
to make decisions that affect the running of the retail pharmacy business so
far as concerns—

6.1.b.i.aa.i

the retail sale of medicinal products (whether they are on a general sale list
or not), and

6.1.b.i.aa.ii

the supply of such products in circumstances corresponding to retail sale,

and

,

6.1.b.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “and stating whether he is a member of the board of
that body or not”, and omit “, and” at the end of the paragraph, and

6.1.b.iii

omit paragraph (c);

6.1.c

before subsection (8), insert the following subsection—

6.1.c.7A

For the purposes of subsection (6)(aa), a person is a senior manager of a
retail pharmacy business if the person plays a significant role (irrespective
of whether other individuals also do so) in—

6.1.c.7A.a

the making of decisions about how the whole or a substantial part of its
activities are to be managed or organised, or

6.1.c.7A.b

the actual managing or organising of the whole or a substantial part of those
activities.

;

6.1.d

in subsection (8)—

6.1.d.i

for the words from “If a person” to “ceases to do so” substitute  “If a person
who has been the superintendent in relation to a retail pharmacy business
ceases to be the superintendent in relation to the business” , and

6.1.d.ii

for “manage the business” substitute  “be the superintendent in relation to
the business” ; and

6.1.e

omit subsection (9).

6.2

After section 72A of the 1968 Act (the responsible pharmacist) insert the
following section—

########## The superintendent

6.2.72AA

It is the duty of the superintendent in relation to a retail pharmacy business
to secure that the business is at all times carried on in ways that ensure its
safe and effective running so far as concerns—

6.2.72AA.a

the retail sale of medicinal products (whether they are on a general sale list
or not), and

6.2.72AA.b

the supply of such products in circumstances corresponding to retail sale.

.

6.3

In section 78 of the 1968 Act  (restrictions on use of titles, descriptions
and emblems), in subsection (3)(b), omit the words from “, and that the
pharmacist who” to “body corporate”.

#### Standards of conduct, ethics and performance

7

7.1

In article 48 of the Pharmacy Order 2010  (standards of conduct and
performance), after paragraph (1) insert the following paragraphs—

7.1.1A

The standards set under this article may include standards which relate only
to the conduct, ethics and performance expected of registered pharmacists who
are—

7.1.1A.a

responsible pharmacists for the purposes of sections 70 to 72 of the Medicines
Act 1968, or

7.1.1A.b

superintendent pharmacists.

7.1.1B

Where the standards set under this article include standards of the type
mentioned in paragraph (1A), the standards may include a description of the
professional responsibilities of responsible pharmacists or (as the case may
be) superintendent pharmacists.

.

7.2

In paragraph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976
(standards of conduct and performance), after sub-paragraph (1) insert the
following sub-paragraphs—

7.2.1A

The standards set under this paragraph may include standards which relate only
to the conduct, ethics and performance expected of registered persons who are—

7.2.1A.a

responsible pharmacists for the purposes of sections 70 to 72 of the Medicines
Act 1968, or

7.2.1A.b

superintendent pharmacists for the purposes of section 71 of that Act.

7.2.1B

Where the standards set under this paragraph include standards of the type
mentioned in sub-paragraph (1A), the standards may include a description of
the professional responsibilities of responsible pharmacists or (as the case
may be) superintendent pharmacists.

.

#### The Medicines (Pharmacies) (Responsible Pharmacist) Regulations 2008

8

8.1

The Medicines (Pharmacies) (Responsible Pharmacist) Regulations 2008  (“ the
2008 Regulations ”) are revoked.

8.2

Despite the revocation of the 2008 Regulations by paragraph (1) and the
amendments made to sections 72A, 84 and 108 of the 1968 Act by this Order—

8.2.a

in Great Britain—

8.2.a.i

the 2008 Regulations continue to have effect (as if they had not been revoked)
until the first rules made by the General Pharmaceutical Council under section
72A of the 1968 Act come into force, and

8.2.a.ii

sections 72A(3) to (5) and 84(A1) of the 1968 Act continue to have effect (as
if they had not been repealed) until that time; and

8.2.b

in Northern Ireland—

8.2.b.i

the 2008 Regulations continue to have effect (as if they had not been revoked)
until the first regulations made by the Council of the Pharmaceutical Society
of Northern Ireland under section 72A of the 1968 Act come into operation, and

8.2.b.ii

sections 72A(3) to (5) and 84(A1) of the 1968 Act continue to have effect (as
if they had not been repealed) until that time.

8.3

Until the first rules made by the General Pharmaceutical Council under section
72A of the 1968 Act come into force, section 108(6B) to (6D) and (10) of the
1968 Act (as amended by Schedule 1) are to be read as if the references in
those provisions to rules were references to regulations.

#### Amendments consequential on articles 5 and 6

9

Schedule 1 makes amendments that are consequential on articles 5 and 6.

### Minor amendments

#### Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland: deputy registrar

10

In Article 9 of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976  (the registrar),
after paragraph (5) insert the following paragraphs—

10.6

The Department may appoint a fit and proper person as a deputy registrar for
the purposes of this Order.

10.7

The registrar may authorise the deputy registrar to act for the registrar in
any matter.

.

#### Carrying on of retail pharmacy business from premises

11

Schedule 2 makes minor amendments to Part 4 of the 1968 Act (pharmacies), and
to sections 10 (exemptions for pharmacists) and 124 (offences by bodies
corporate) of that Act, relating to the carrying on of a retail pharmacy
business from (as well as at or on) premises.

      Richard Tilbrook   Clerk of the Privy Council

## SCHEDULES

AMENDMENTS CONSEQUENTIAL ON ARTICLES 5 AND 6

Article 9

##### Medicines Act 1968

1

The 1968 Act is amended in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 8.

2

For the title to section 72B  substitute  “Sections 72A and 72AA:
supplementary” .

3

In section 72B—

3.a

in subsection (1), for the words from “section 72A” to “under that section,”
substitute  “section 72A or 72AA of this Act, or of rules or regulations made
under section 72A,” ;

3.b

omit subsection (2); and

3.c

in subsection (3)—

3.c.i

in paragraph (a), before “regulations made” insert  “rules or” , and

3.c.ii

in paragraph (b), before “regulations made” insert  “rules or” , and for
“subsection (7)(b)” substitute  “subsection (7)” .

4

In section 84  (offences under Part 4), omit subsection (A1).

5

In section 84A  (rules by the General Pharmaceutical Council)—

5.a

in subsection (2), for “Part 4 of this Act” substitute  “any provision of Part
4 of this Act other than section 72A” ; and

5.b

after subsection (2), insert the following subsections—

5.b.3

The power of the General Pharmaceutical Council to make rules under section
72A may be exercised so as to make different provision for different areas or
in relation to different cases or different circumstances to which the power
is applicable, and to make any such provision subject to such exceptions,
limitations and conditions (if any) as the General Pharmaceutical Council
considers necessary or expedient.

5.b.4

Before making rules under section 72A, the General Pharmaceutical Council must
publish draft rules and invite representations to be made to it about the
draft by—

5.b.4.a

the Secretary of State, the Scottish Ministers and the Welsh Ministers, and

5.b.4.b

any other persons appearing to it appropriate to consult about the draft.

5.b.5

No rules made under section 72A by the General Pharmaceutical Council are to
come into force until approved by order of the Privy Council.

5.b.6

The power vested in the Privy Council to make an order under subsection (5)
may be exercised by any two or more members of the Privy Council.

5.b.7

The making of an order under subsection (5) is sufficiently signified by an
instrument signed by the Clerk of the Privy Council.

5.b.8

Where an order under subsection (5) is signified by an instrument purporting
to be signed by the Clerk of the Privy Council, that is evidence and in
Scotland sufficient evidence of—

5.b.8.a

the fact that the order was duly made, and

5.b.8.b

the order’s terms.

.

6

In section 108  (enforcement in England and Wales)—

6.a

omit subsection (6A);

6.b

in subsection (6B), for “the other provisions of section 72A of this Act, and
any regulations made under them,” substitute  “the provisions of sections 72A
and 72AA of this Act, and any rules made under section 72A,” ;

6.c

in subsection (6C), for “those other provisions, or any regulations made under
them,”, substitute  “those provisions, or any rules made under section 72A,” ;

6.d

in subsection (6D)—

6.d.i

in paragraph (a), for “those other provisions, or any regulations made under
them,” substitute  “those provisions, or any rules made under section 72A,” ,
and

6.d.ii

in paragraph (b), for “those other provisions or those regulations” substitute
“those provisions or those rules” ; and

6.e

in subsection (10), for the words from “subsections (6A) or (6B)” to the end
of that subsection substitute  “subsection (6B) to enforce any provisions or
rules mentioned in that subsection, and that the public interest requires that
the provisions or rules in question should be enforced in relation to it, the
appropriate Minister may enforce those provisions or rules in relation to that
matter.” .

7

In section 110  (enforcement in Northern Ireland)—

7.a

omit subsection (3A);

7.b

in subsection (3B), for “the other provisions of section 72A of this Act, and
any regulations made under them,” substitute  “the provisions of sections 72A
and 72AA of this Act, and any regulations made under section 72A,” ;

7.c

in subsection (3C), for “those other provisions, or any regulations made under
them,”, substitute  “those provisions, or any regulations made under section
72A,” ; and

7.d

in subsection (3D)—

7.d.i

in paragraph (a), for “those other provisions, or any regulations made under
them,” substitute  “those provisions, or any regulations made under section
72A,” , and

7.d.ii

in paragraph (b), omit “other”.

8

In section 129  (orders and regulations)—

8.a

in subsection (2), before “paragraph 1” insert  “section 72A of this Act or” ;
and

8.b

in subsection (3)(a), after “79” insert  “, 84A(5)” .

##### Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976

9

In Article 25A of the Pharmacy (Northern Ireland) Order 1976  (regulations:
procedure), at the end insert—

9.3

Before making regulations under section 72A of the Medicines Act 1968 the
Council must publish draft regulations and invite representations to be made
to it about the draft by—

9.3.a

the Department; and

9.3.b

any other persons appearing to it appropriate to consult about the draft.

.

##### Health Act 2006

10

In the Health Act 2006 , omit section 30(3) (the responsible pharmacist).

##### Pharmacy Order 2010

11

Paragraph 66 of Schedule 4 to the Pharmacy Order 2010  (amendments, repeals
and revocations – amendment of the Medicines (Pharmacies) (Responsible
Pharmacist) Regulations 2008) is revoked.

  AMENDMENTS RELATING TO CARRYING ON OF RETAIL PHARMACY BUSINESS FROM PREMISES

Article 11

1

The 1968 Act is amended in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 21.

2

In section 10  (exemptions for pharmacists)—

2.a

in subsection (1)(b)(i), after “at”, in each place, insert  “or from” ;

2.b

in subsection (4)(b), after “at”, in both places, insert  “or from” ;

2.c

in subsection (5)(b), after “at”, in the first place it occurs, insert  “or
from” ; and

2.d

in subsection (6), after “at” insert  “or from” .

3

In section 70  (business carried on by individual pharmacist or by partners)—

3.a

in subsection (1), for “where” substitute  “at or from which” ;

3.b

in subsection (2)—

3.b.i

for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried on at or from” ,

3.b.ii

in paragraph (a), after “retail sale at” insert  “or from” , and

3.b.iii

in paragraph (b), after “supply at” insert  “or from” ; and

3.c

in subsection (3)(c), for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried
on at or from” .

4

In section 71  (business carried on by body corporate)—

4.a

in subsection (1)(b), for “where” substitute  “at or from which” ;

4.b

in subsection (2)—

4.b.i

for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried on at or from” ,

4.b.ii

in paragraph (a), after “retail sale at” insert  “or from” , and

4.b.iii

in paragraph (b), after “supply at” insert  “or from” ; and

4.c

in subsection (3)(c), for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried
on at or from” .

5

In section 72  (representative of pharmacist in case of death or disability)—

5.a

in subsection (2)(b), after “premises at” insert  “or from” ;

5.b

in subsection (2A)—

5.b.i

for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried on at or from” ,

5.b.ii

in paragraph (a), after “retail sale at” insert  “or from” , and

5.b.iii

in paragraph (b), after “supply at” insert  “or from” ; and

5.c

in subsection (2B)(c), for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried
on at or from” .

6

In section 72A  (the responsible pharmacist), in subsection (1)—

6.a

for “business at” substitute  “business carried on at or from” ;

6.b

in paragraph (a), after “retail sale at” insert  “or from” ; and

6.c

in paragraph (b), after “supply at” insert  “or from” .

7

In section 72B  (supplementary), in subsection (4), for “the business at”
substitute  “the business carried on at or from” .

8

In section 74B  (conditions for registration: Great Britain)—

8.a

in subsection (4)—

8.a.i

in paragraph (a)(ii), after “business at” insert  “or from” , and

8.a.ii

in paragraph (b), after “business at” insert  “or from” ; and

8.b

in subsection (5)—

8.b.i

in paragraph (a), after “business at” insert  “or from” , and

8.b.ii

in paragraph (b)(i) and (ii), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

9

In section 74C  (supplementary provision in respect of registration of
premises: Great Britain), in subsection (3)—

9.a

after “previously carried on at” insert  “or from” ; and

9.b

in paragraph (b), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

10

In section 74D  (conditional registration: Great Britain)—

10.a

in subsection (1), for “at” substitute  “in the course of the business carried
on at or from” ;

10.b

in subsection (3), after “business at” insert  “or from” ; and

10.c

in subsection (5), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

11

In section 74E  (supplementary provision in respect of conditional
registration: Great Britain)—

11.a

in subsection (1), after “business at” insert  “or from” ; and

11.b

in subsection (5), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

12

In section 74F  (giving of notice by registrar: Great Britain), in subsection
(6), for “the premises, or at” substitute  “or from the premises, or at or
from” .

13

In section 74G  (voluntary removal from the register: Great Britain), in
subsection (1), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

14

In section 74H  (change of ownership of retail pharmacy business: Great
Britain)—

14.a

in subsections (1) and (3)—

14.a.i

after “carried on at” insert  “or from” , and

14.a.ii

after “business at” insert  “or from” ;

14.b

in subsection (6)(c), after “business at” insert  “or from” ; and

14.c

in subsection (9), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

15

In section 74I  (supplementary provision in respect of change of ownership of
retail pharmacy business: Great Britain), in subsection (2)(b), after
“business at” insert  “or from” .

16

In section 74J  (temporary registration with regard to emergencies involving
loss of human life or human illness etc.)—

16.a

in subsection (4), for “at” substitute  “in the course of the business carried
on at or from” ; and

16.b

in subsection (8), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

17

In section 75  (registration of premises: Northern Ireland), in subsection
(7)(b), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

18

In section 76  (supplementary provisions as to registration of premises:
Northern Ireland)—

18.a

in subsections (1) and (2), after “business at” insert  “or from” ;

18.b

in subsection (3), after “carried on at” insert  “or from” ; and

18.c

in subsection (5)(b), after “business at” insert  “or from” .

19

In section 77  (annual return of premises to registrar)—

19.a

after “business at” insert  “or from” ; and

19.b

in paragraph (a), after “premises at” insert  “or from” .

20

In section 78  (restrictions on use of titles, descriptions and emblems)—

20.a

in subsection (3)(a) and (b), after “premises at” insert  “or from” ;

20.b

in subsection (5)(b), after “other person) at” insert  “or from” ;

20.c

in subsection (5A), after “other person) at” insert  “or from” ; and

20.d

in subsection (7)—

20.d.i

after “a business carried on at” insert  “or from” , and

20.d.ii

for “the business at” substitute  “the business carried on at or from” .

21

In section 124  (offences by bodies corporate), in subsection (2)(b), for “at
any premises where” substitute  “in respect of any premises at or from which”
.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order principally makes provision relating to the position and
responsibilities of a superintendent of a body corporate that is carrying on a
retail pharmacy business, and in relation to the responsibilities of the
responsible pharmacist who is in day to day charge of particular retail
pharmacy premises.

Part 1 contains general provisions, including powers to make commencement and
transitional provisions orders and the procedural requirements relating to
them.

Part 2 contains amendments to the Medicines Act 1968 (“ the 1968 Act ”)
relating to responsible pharmacists and superintendent pharmacists.

It is a requirement of section 72A of the 1968 Act, in terms, that whenever
retail pharmacy premises are open for business, there must be a responsible
pharmacist in respect of the premises. An amendment is made to section 72A to
clarify when premises are to be considered open for business for these
purposes. The responsibility of responsible pharmacists to establish, maintain
and keep under review operating procedures is removed, as is their duty to
make certain records. At the same time, the duty of pharmacy owners to ensure
that those records are properly maintained, and are kept for a prescribed
period, are also removed – as are the provisions making breaches of the record
keeping requirements offences (article 5(1) to (4) and paragraphs 3 and 4 of
Schedule 1).

The powers of the responsible Ministers under section 72A of the 1968 Act to
make regulations in respect of responsible pharmacists are replaced by powers
of the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) as regards Great Britain and the
Council of the Pharmaceutical Society of Northern Ireland (PSNI) as regards
Northern Ireland to make rules or regulations under that section. These powers
are qualified by a new duty to have regard to the principle that the burdens
imposed on businesses by rules or regulations are the minimum necessary to
secure the benefits expected to result from them – and by new consultation
obligations. The existing Regulations are revoked but transitionally saved,
pending the first rules by the GPhC as respects Great Britain and the first
regulations of the Council of the PSNI as respects Northern Ireland (article
5(5) and (6) and 8 and paragraphs 5 and 9 of Schedule 1).

By virtue of section 71 of the 1968 Act, in order to carry on a retail
pharmacy business, a body corporate must have a superintendent. A new
requirement is introduced which means that the superintendent has to be a
senior manager who has authority to take decisions about certain matters
relating to retail sale of medicinal products and the supply of medicinal
products in circumstances corresponding to retail sale. A restriction
preventing superintendents from being the superintendent of more than one
pharmacy business is removed, as is the requirement for businesses proposing
to use the title of “chemist”, or related expressions, to have a
superintendent as a member of their board (article 6(1) and (3)).

A new duty for superintendents is set out in section 72AA of the 1968 Act
which relates to securing the safe and effective running of the pharmacy
business so far as concerns the retail sale of medicinal products and the
supply of medicinal products in circumstances corresponding to retail sale
(article 6(2)). The GPhC and the Council of the PSNI are also given additional
powers to include a description of the professional responsibilities of
superintendents and responsible pharmacists as part of the standards they set
in their codes of practice relating to conduct and performance (article 7).

There are also some further consequential amendments to the Medicines Act
1968, the Health Act 2006 and the Pharmacy Order 2010 (paragraphs 6 to 8, 10
and 11 of Schedule 1). These include changes to the enforcement arrangements
to take account of both the new duty for superintendent pharmacists and the
new arrangements for subordinate legislation in respect of responsible
pharmacists.

There are also some minor changes clarifying that medicines may be supplied
from as well as at pharmacy premises, and that retail pharmacy businesses may
be carried on from as well as at pharmacy premises (Schedule 2). It is also
made clear that the PSNI may appoint a deputy registrar who may be authorised
to act for the registrar in any matter (article 10).

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is
foreseen.

