Title: The Rural Support (Controls) (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations amend Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 352/78, (EC) No 165/94, (EC) No 2799/98, (EC) No 814/2000, (EC) No 1290/2005 and (EC) No 485/2008 (“the Horizontal Regulation”) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 809/2014 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated administration and control system, rural development measures and cross compliance. These Regulations make changes to inspection requirements and reduce control rates for rural support schemes in Scotland to address the effects of the coronavirus pandemic. They also simplify and improve the retained EU law relating to rural support schemes to make permanent some temporary changes that have proved beneficial.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/107

## The Rural Support (Controls) (Coronavirus) (Scotland) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture

  Made   22nd March 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   24th March 2022

  Coming into force   19th May 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred on them by Article 62(2)(a) and (b) of  Regulation (EU) No.
1306/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2013
on the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy
, section 2 of the Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020
, and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Rural Support (Controls) (Coronavirus)
(Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 19 May 2022.

### Amendment of the Horizontal Regulation

2

2.1

Regulation (EU) No. 1306/2013  is amended as follows.

2.2

In Article 75 for paragraph 2 substitute—

Payments referred to in paragraph 1 may be made after the administrative
checks referred to in Article 74 have been finalised.

.

### Amendment of Commission Implementing 

3

3.1

Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No. 809/2014     of 17 July 2014
laying down rules for the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated
administration and control system, rural development measures and cross
compliance   is amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (7).

3.2

In Article 24(4), for the sub-paragraph beginning “By way of derogation from
the first-sub-paragraph” substitute—

By way of derogation from the first sub-paragraph, no physical inspection is
required in respect of claim year 2020 for on-the-spot checks related to
direct payment support and in respect of claim year 2021 for on-the-spot
checks related to direct payment support and support for rural development.
The competent authority will draw a definitive conclusion from the use of
photo-interpretation of satellite or aerial ortho-images or other relevant
evidence including such evidence provided by the beneficiary at the request of
the competent authority.

.

3.3

In Article 26(4), for the sub-paragraph beginning “In respect of claim year
2020” substitute—

In respect of claim year 2020 for on-the-spot checks related to direct payment
support and in respect of claim year 2021 for on-the-spot checks related to
direct payment support and support for rural development, the requirement for
additional visits under this paragraph may be met by the use of new
technologies or other relevant evidence.

.

3.4

In Article 33(1), at the end insert as a new sub-paragraph—

By way of derogation from the first sub-paragraph, the control sample for the
on-the-spot checks in respect of claim years 2020 and 2021 must cover at least
1% of all beneficiaries applying for that respective aid scheme. By way of
derogation from the second-subparagraph, the control sample selected shall
cover at least 1% of all animals for which aid is applied for per aid scheme.

.

3.5

In Article 49(1), at the end insert as a new sub-paragraph—

By way of derogation from the first sub-paragraph, no physical inspection is
required for the on-the-spot checks related to claim year 2021. The competent
authority will draw a definitive conclusion from the use of photo-
interpretation of satellite or aerial ortho-images or other relevant evidence
including such evidence provided by the beneficiary at the request of the
competent authority.

.

3.6

In Article 52(2), at the end insert as a new sub-paragraph—

By way of derogation from the first sub-paragraph, the control rate for ex-
post checks shall be at least 0.6 % in calendar year 2021. In calendar year
2021, no physical inspection is required for ex-post checks. The competent
authority will draw a definitive conclusion from the use of photo-
interpretation of satellite or aerial ortho-images or other relevant evidence
including such evidence provided by the beneficiary at the request of the
competent authority.

.

3.7

In Article 68—

3.7.a

in paragraph 1—

3.7.a.i

after “receiving direct payment support.” insert  “For the purposes of on-the-
spot checks in respect of claim year 2021, this sub-paragraph applies as if
for “1%” there were substituted “0.5%”” ,

3.7.a.ii

for “claim year 2020” substitute  “claim years 2020 and 2021” ,

3.7.a.iii

after “Title III shall apply.” insert  “This sub-paragraph does not apply in
respect of claim years 2021 and 2022.” ,

3.7.b

omit paragraph 4.

      MAIRI GOUGEON   A member of the Scottish Government     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on the financing, management
and monitoring of the common agricultural policy and repealing Council
Regulations  (EEC) No 352/78 ,  (EC) No 165/94 ,  (EC) No 2799/98 ,  (EC) No
814/2000 ,  (EC) No 1290/2005  and  (EC) No 485/2008  (“ the Horizontal
Regulation ”) and Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 809/2014  laying
down rules for the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the integrated
administration and control system, rural development measures and cross
compliance. These Regulations make changes to inspection requirements and
reduce control rates for rural support schemes in Scotland to address the
effects of the coronavirus pandemic. They also simplify and improve the
retained EU law relating to rural support schemes to make permanent some
temporary changes that have proved beneficial.

Regulation 2 simplifies and improves the retained EU law relating to the
operation of rural support schemes by allowing for payments to be made for
direct payment support and the support for rural development specified in
Article 67(2) of the Horizontal Regulation after completion of all
administrative checks.

Regulations 3(2), (3) and (5) allow for physical checks to be replaced by
other forms of evidence, including new technologies for inspections related to
direct payments and rural development schemes for claim year 2021. Regulations
3(2) and (3) also consolidate the text on these derogations for claim years
2020 and 2021. The terms ‘direct payment support’ and ‘support for rural
development’ used in regulations 3(2) and (3) are defined in Article 2 of the
Horizontal Regulation.

Regulation 3(4) reduces the control rate for inspections related to animal aid
schemes to 1% for claim years 2020 and 2021.

Regulation 3(6) reduces the control rate for ex-post checks, in calendar year
2021, to at least 0.6% and allows for physical checks to be replaced by other
forms of evidence, including new technologies, for inspections related to
investment operations.

Regulation 3(7) reduces, for claim year 2021, the cross compliance control
rate to 0.5%, derogates, for claim years 2021 and 2022, from the requirement
to substitute the control rate for certain cross compliance acts and standards
from 1% to a higher rate, if such a rate is set out in separate legislation
applicable to that specific act or standard. Regulation 3(7) also simplifies
and improves the retained EU law on rural support schemes by removing the
obligation to automatically increase the cross compliance inspection rate in
the year following any significant non-compliance.

A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared. Copies may be
obtained online at  www.legislation.gov.uk .

