Title: The Rural Development (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-02
Description: These Regulations make amendments to various rules regarding the operation and management of rural development schemes established originally pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 1698/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) (EUR 2005/1698) and Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) (EUR 2013/1305), in order to align more closely with equivalent schemes established under the Agriculture Act 2020 (c. 21).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/765

## The Rural Development (Amendment) (England) Regulations 2022

    Agriculture, England

  Made   5th July 2022

  Laid before Parliament   6th July 2022

  Coming into force   28th July 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 14, 16(3) and 16(4) of the Agriculture Act
2020 .

### Citation, commencement, extent, application and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Rural Development (Amendment) (England)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 28th July 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in England only.

1.3

In these Regulations, “ rural development support measures ” means measures
under support schemes under—

1.3.a

Regulation (EU) No 1698/2005  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
Development (EAFRD) ; or

1.3.b

Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
Development (EAFRD) ; or

1.3.c

Regulation  (EC) No 1257/1999  on support for rural development from the
European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF) .

### Commission Delegated 

2

2.1

Commission Regulation (EC) No 817/2004  laying down detailed rules for the
application of Council Regulation  (EC) No 1257/1999  on support for rural
development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EAGGF)
, is amended as follows.

2.2

In Article 36—

2.2.a

in the first paragraph for “the beneficiary shall reimburse the assistance
granted” substitute  “reimbursement shall not be required in respect of the
period during which the commitment was effective” ;

2.2.b

omit the second and third paragraphs.

### Regulation (EU) No 1698/2005

3

3.1

Regulation (EU) No 1698/2005  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
Development (EAFRD) is amended as follows.

3.2

In Article 39 (agri-environment payments), in paragraph 3, in the second sub-
paragraph, for the words from “between five” to “of commitments” substitute
“of at least three years. However, a commitment for a shorter period may be
permitted where this is necessary and justified” .

### Commission Regulation (EC) No 1974/2006

4

4.1

Commission Regulation (EC) No 1974/2006  laying down detailed rules for the
application of Council Regulation  (EC) No 1698/2005  on support for rural
development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) ,
is amended as follows.

4.2

For Article 44 (transfer of holding), substitute “Where all or part of the
holding is transferred to another person during the period of that commitment,
the commitment, or the part corresponding to the land transferred, may be
taken over for the remainder of the period by that other person or may expire.
Reimbursement shall not be required in respect of the period during which the
commitment was effective.

### Commission Regulation (EU) No 1975/2006

5

5.1

Commission Regulation (EU) No 1975/2006  laying down detailed rules for the
implementation of Council Regulation  (EC) No 1698/2005 , as regards the
implementation of control procedures as well as cross-compliance in respect of
rural development support measures , is amended as follows.

5.2

In Article 26 (administrative checks), paragraph 4—

5.2.a

for the first instance of “shall”, substitute  “may” ;

5.2.b

omit “However, the relevant authority may decide not to carry out such visits
for smaller investments, or where they consider that the risk that the
conditions for receiving aid are not fulfilled, or that the reality of the
investment has not been respected, is low. That decision and its justification
shall be recorded.”

5.3

In Article 30 (ex-post checks) omit paragraph 3.

5.4

In Article 31 (reductions and exclusions)—

5.4.a

in paragraph 1, omit the third and fourth sub-paragraphs.

5.4.b

in paragraph 2, for “shall” in each place it occurs, substitute  “may” .

### Commission Regulation (EU) No 65/2011

6

6.1

Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 65/2011  laying down detailed rules
for the implementation of Council Regulation  (EC) No 1698/2005 , as regards
the implementation of control procedures as well as cross-compliance in
respect of rural development support measures , is amended as follows.

6.2

In Article 24 (administrative checks), omit paragraph 4.

6.3

In Article 25 (on-the-spot-checks), in paragraph 3, omit sub-paragraph (d).

6.4

In Article 29 (ex-post checks)—

6.4.a

In paragraph 1, for “shall”, substitute  “may” ;

6.4.b

omit paragraphs 2 and 3.

### Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013

7

7.1

Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
Development (EAFRD) is amended as follows.

7.2

In Article 28 (agri-environment-climate), in paragraph 5 for the words from
“undertaken for” to the end substitute  “ordinarily undertaken for at least
three years. However, a commitment for a shorter period may be permitted where
this is necessary and justified, and commitments may be extended after the
termination of the period” ;

7.3

In Article 29 (organic farming), in paragraph 3, in the first sub-paragraph—

7.3.a

for “be made for a period of five to seven years” substitute  “ordinarily be
made for at least three years. However, a commitment for a shorter period may
be permitted where this is necessary and justified” ;

7.3.b

omit “in their rural development programmes” in both places in which it
occurs;

7.3.c

for “annual” substitute  “their” .

### Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013

8

8.1

Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
the financing, management and monitoring of the common agricultural policy  is
amended insofar as it relates to rural development support measures, as
follows.

8.2

In Article 63 (undue payments and administrative penalties)—

8.2.a

in paragraph 1, for “shall”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “may” ;

8.2.b

in paragraph 2, for “relevant authority shall”, substitute  “relevant
authority may” ;

8.2.c

in paragraph 3, for “shall” substitute  “may” .

8.3

In Article 64 (application of administrative penalties – general rules), in
paragraph 5, omit the words from “and graduated” to “non-compliance found,”.

8.4

In Article 77 (application of administrative penalties - integrated
administration and control system), in paragraph 5, omit the words from “and
graduated” to “non-compliance found”.

### Commission Delegated 

9

9.1

Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 640/2014  supplementing  Regulation
(EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard
to the integrated administration and control system and conditions for refusal
or withdrawal of payments and administrative penalties applicable to direct
payments, rural development support and cross compliance , is amended, insofar
as it relates to rural development support measures, as follows.

9.2

In Article 4 (force majeure and exceptional circumstances), in paragraph 2,
for “fifteen working days” substitute  “eight weeks” .

9.3

In Article 13 (late submission)—

9.3.a

in paragraph 1, in the first sub-paragraph, for “shall” substitute  “may” ;

9.3.b

in paragraph 2, for “shall”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “may” ;

9.3.c

in paragraph 3, for the first instance of “shall”, substitute  “may” .

9.4

In Article 19 (administrative penalties in cases of over-declaration)—

9.4.a

for paragraph 1 substitute—

If, in respect of a crop group as referred to in Article 17(1), the area
declared for the purposes of any area-related aid schemes or support measures
exceeds or is less than the area determined in accordance with Article 18, the
aid shall be calculated on the basis of the area determined

;

9.4.b

omit paragraphs 2 and 3.

9.5

In Article 35 (non-compliance with the eligibility criteria other than the
size of area or number of animals, commitments or other obligations)—

9.5.a

in paragraph 1, for “shall” substitute  “may” ;

9.5.b

in paragraph 2, for “shall” substitute  “may” ;

9.5.c

for paragraph 3, substitute—

When deciding on the rate of refusal or withdrawal of support following the
non-compliance with the commitments or other obligations referred to in
paragraph 2, the relevant authority may take account of:—

    the circumstances that led to the non-compliance and whether it was caused
by the intentional actions of the beneficiary or due to that person’s
recklessness or negligence;         any steps taken by the beneficiary to
report a change of circumstance or notify the Authority of the non-compliance
within a reasonable period;         any failure on the part of the beneficiary
to co-operate with an on-the-spot check;         any past conduct of the
beneficiary during the period of the commitment and whether a similar non-
compliance has previously occurred;         the nature of the non-compliance
and whether it has caused widespread or irreparable damage;         the extent
to which it is desirable, practicable or economic to permit the beneficiary to
rectify the non-compliance;         the consequences of the non-compliance and
whether it renders the purpose of the commitment unachievable within the
timescales or finances of the commitment or to the standards agreed when the
commitment was undertaken.

;

9.5.d

in paragraph 4, for “shall” substitute  “may” ;

9.5.e

in paragraph 5, for “shall”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “may” ;

9.5.f

in paragraph 6, for “shall”, in both places it occurs, substitute  “may” .

### Commission Delegated 

10

10.1

Commission Delegated  Regulation (EU) No 807/2014  supplementing  Regulation
(EU) No 1305/2013  of the European Parliament and of the Council on support
for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development
(EAFRD) and introducing transitional provisions , is amended as follows.

10.2

In Article 14 (conversion or adjustment of commitments), in paragraph 2—

10.2.a

omit the words from “the approved” to “and that”;

10.2.b

omit the words from “The beneficiary” to “original commitment.”

### Commission Implementing 

11

11.1

Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 809/2014  laying down rules for
the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament
and of the Council on the integrated administration and control system, rural
development measures and cross compliance , is amended insofar as it relates
to rural development support measures as follows.

11.2

In Article 14 (contents of the single application or payment claim), in
paragraph 1, omit sub-paragraph (f).

11.3

In Article 25 (announcement of on-the-spot checks)—

11.3.a

omit “strictly”;

11.3.b

omit “and shall not exceed 14 days”.

11.4

Omit Article 32 (control rate for rural development measures).

11.5

In Article 34 (selection of the control sample), omit paragraph 3.

11.6

In Article 36 (reduction of the control rate), omit paragraphs 4 and 5.

11.7

In Article 37 (elements of on-the-spot checks), omit paragraph 4.

11.8

In Article 42 (on-the-spot checks), in paragraph 1, omit the second sub-
paragraph.

11.9

In Article 48 (administrative checks), omit paragraph 5.

11.10

In Article 52 (ex-post checks)—

11.10.a

omit paragraph 2;

11.10.b

in paragraph 3, omit “Between 20 % and 25 % of the sample shall be selected
randomly.”.

11.11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11.12

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

### Commission Implementing 

12

12.1

Commission Implementing  Regulation (EU) No 908/2014  laying down rules for
the application of  Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013  of the European Parliament
and of the Council with regard to paying agencies and other bodies, financial
management, clearance of accounts, rules on checks, securities and
transparency , is amended, insofar as it relates to rural development
measures, as follows.

12.2

In Article 27 (interest applicable to recovery of undue payments), in
paragraph 1, for the last sentence substitute  “On duly justified grounds, the
Secretary of State may decide not to recover the interest on undue payments.”
.

      Victoria Prentis   Minister of State   Department for Environment, Food
and Rural Affairs   5th July 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

These Regulations make amendments to various rules regarding the operation and
management of rural development schemes established originally pursuant to
Regulation (EU) No 1698/2005  of the European Parliament and of the Council on
support for rural development by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
Development (EAFRD) (EUR 2005/1698) and  Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of the
European Parliament and of the Council on support for rural development by the
European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) (EUR 2013/1305), in
order to align more closely with equivalent schemes established under the
Agriculture Act  2020 (c. 21) .

Regulations 3, 7 and 10 amend various rules regarding the prescribed length of
schemes and facilitate agreement holders transferring to domestically funded
schemes in the future.

Regulations 4 and 2 remove requirements to recover assistance granted from an
agreement holder who transfers land or holdings during the duration of their
agreement.

Regulations 5(2) and (3), 6, 11(3) to (10) provide for greater flexibility in
the manner in which on-the-spot inspections and ex-post checks are undertaken
and the processes for determining which agreement holders will be subject to
on-the-spot inspections and ex-post checks.

Regulations 5(4), 8 and 9(3) to (7) amend various rules relating to the
application of penalties, recoveries and similar options in relation to non-
compliance with scheme rules.

Regulation 9(2) extends the timeframe in which agreement holders can notify
the relevant authority of cases of force majeure and exceptional
circumstances.

Regulation 11(2) reduces the administrative burden on agreement holders
submitting payment claims.

Regulations 11(11) and 11(12) amend Article 68 of Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) No 807/2014  supplementing  Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013  of
the European Parliament and of the Council on support for rural development by
the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and introducing
transitional provisions (EUR 2014/807) to remove a control rate for
inspections relating to cross-compliance rules from 2023.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

