Title: The Building Safety (Leaseholder Protections) (England) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: Sections 116 to 125 of, and Schedule 8 to, the Building Safety Act 2022 (c. 30) (“the Act”) make provision in relation to remediation of certain defects in buildings over 11 metres in height (or of at least 5 storeys). In particular, those provisions include protections from liability for leaseholders in specific circumstances.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/711

## The Building Safety (Leaseholder Protections) (England) Regulations 2022

    Building And Buildings, England       Landlord And Tenant, England

  Made   28th June 2022

  Laid before Parliament   29th June 2022

  Coming into force   20th July 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 117(3)(c), 121(12), 124(6) and 132(1) of, and
paragraphs 3(4)(b) and (6)(c), 6(6) and (7), 10(4), 14(1) and (2) and 16 of
Schedule 8 to, the Building Safety Act 2022 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and application, and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Building Safety (Leaseholder
Protections) (England) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 20th July 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and apply in England only.

1.3

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” means the Building Safety Act 2022;   “ current landlord ” means a
person who is the landlord under a lease of premises in a relevant building;
“ landlord group ” has the meaning given in paragraph 3(4) of Schedule 8 to
the Act;   “ leaseholder ” means a tenant under a lease of a dwelling in a
building;   “ named manager ” means, in relation to a building, a person who
is named in a lease as being the party with managing and repairing obligations
in relation to the building or part of the building and who is a separate
legal person from the freeholder of the building and the landlord of the
building or part of the building;   “ remediation service charge ” means a
service charge  which includes a charge in respect of a relevant measure
relating to any relevant defect ;   “ RMC ” means a body corporate which is
party to a lease of a building where—  the body corporate is limited by
guarantee and the members of that body are tenants under leases of dwellings
in the building (“leaseholders”), or the majority of the shares of the body
corporate are held by leaseholders; and “ RTM company ” has the same meaning
as in the Commonhold and Leasehold Reform Act 2002 .

### Buildings which are not relevant buildings: leaseholder owned buildings

2

For the purposes of section 117(3)(c) of the Act the freehold estate in the
building or part of the building is leaseholder owned where—

2.a

the freehold estate is solely owned by tenants in the building, whether
through a corporate structure or otherwise; and

2.b

paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of section 117(3) of the Act do not apply in
relation to the building.

### Modification of section 121(2) to (5) of the Act for certain associated persons

3

3.1

In the definition of “the landlord group” in paragraph 3(4)(a) of Schedule 8
to the Act, the reference to a person associated with the relevant landlord is
modified in accordance with paragraph (2).

3.2

For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act, a person is not to
be considered associated with the relevant landlord where they would only be
associated by virtue of section   121(4) or (5)(a)   of the Act.

### Application of section 124 of the Act (remediation contribution orders) to other buildings

4

4.1

Section 124 of the Act applies in relation to a building that would, but for
section 117(3) of the Act, be a relevant building , with the modifications set
out in paragraphs (2) and (3).

4.2

The following may not be specified as a body corporate or partnership for the
purposes of section 124(3) —

4.2.a

a landlord under a lease of the relevant building or any part of it where that
landlord is a company owned in part or in full by a majority of residential
leaseholders of the building;

4.2.b

a person who was such a landlord at the qualifying time; or

4.2.c

a commonhold association, within the meaning of section 34 of the Commonhold
and Leasehold Reform Act 2002.

4.3

Section 124(5) applies as if, in the definition of “interested person”, after
sub-paragraph (d) there were inserted—

4.3.da

a special measures manager, within the meaning of paragraph 4(2) of Schedule
7;

.

### Determination of net worth of landlord group

5

5.1

For the purposes of paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act, the net worth of the
landlord group at the qualifying time is determined in accordance with this
regulation.

5.2

Where the relevant landlord  is a private or public limited company  the net
worth is calculated according to the following formula—

Net Worth = Total Assets – Total Liabilities – Intangible Assets

5.3

In determining net worth of a landlord group  in accordance with paragraph
(2)—

5.3.a

the “total assets”, “total liabilities” and “intangible assets” of the
relevant landlord and landlord group are to be determined from the most recent
audited or filed accounts for that group audited or filed after 14 February
2017 but before 14 February 2022;

5.3.b

subject to paragraph (3)(c) below, a copy of the accounts as set out in
paragraph (3)(a) above must be provided to the leaseholder under regulation
6(5)(b);

5.3.c

where audited accounts are not available, the landlord may produce as evidence
for the landlord’s certificate according to regulation 6 the accounts which
have most recently been filed at the relevant companies’ registry for the
country in which the company is registered;

5.3.d

where the accounts referred to in this paragraph are not prepared in pounds
sterling, the value of any asset or liabilities must be converted using the
Bank of England daily spot rate for the respective currency on 14 February
2022;

5.4

Where the relevant landlord itself comprises more than one person—

5.4.i

Those persons jointly shall be the relevant landlord;

5.4.ii

The total net worth of the relevant landlord should be taken as the sum of the
net worth of each person and their associates; and

5.4.iii

The number of relevant buildings  is the total number of relevant buildings
owned either leasehold or freehold by each person and their associates.

5.5

Where the relevant landlord is an individual, the net worth is calculated
according to the following formula—

Net worth = Assets - Liabilities

5.6

In determining the net worth of a landlord group in accordance with paragraph
(5), the “assets” and “liabilities” of a landlord includes those of the
landlord’s spouse or civil partner at the qualifying time .

### Landlord’s certificate

6

6.1

A current landlord must provide a certificate (a “landlord’s certificate”) to
a leaseholder in each of the following circumstances—

6.1.a

when the current landlord makes a demand to a leaseholder for the payment of a
remediation service charge;

6.1.b

within four weeks of receipt of notification from the leaseholder that the
leasehold interest is to be sold;

6.1.c

within four weeks of becoming aware (either themselves or by notification from
another person) of a relevant defect not covered by a previous landlord’s
certificate; or

6.1.d

within four weeks of being requested to do so by the leaseholder.

6.1.e

within four weeks of becoming aware of a new leaseholder deed of certificate
(as defined in regulation 6 of the Building Safety (Leaseholder Protections)
(Information etc.) (England) Regulations 2022) which is in relation to a lease
of a dwelling in the building of which the current landlord is the landlord
and which contained information that was not included in a previous landlord’s
certificate.

6.2

The landlord’s certificate under paragraph (1) must—

6.2.a

be in the form set out in Schedule 1,

6.2.b

confirm whether or not the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) to
Schedule 8 of the Act) met the contribution condition under paragraph 3 of
that Schedule,

6.2.c

confirm whether or not the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) to
Schedule 8 of the Act), met the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule 8
and was responsible for  the relevant defect or was associated with a person
responsible for a relevant defect,

6.2.d

contain the information referred to in paragraph (3),

6.2.e

be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraph (4),

6.2.f

be signed by the person who is the current landlord on the date the
certificate is completed.

6.2A

But the requirement in paragraph (2) that the landlord’s certificate contain
the information referred to in paragraph (3) and be accompanied by the
evidence set out in paragraph (4) is modified as set out in paragraphs (2B) to
(2G).

6.2B

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2B.a

either the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to
the Act) met the contribution condition under paragraph 3 of that Schedule or
the leaseholder’s lease is not a qualifying lease as defined in section 119 of
the Act, and

6.2B.b

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)—

6.2B.b.i

met the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule, or

6.2B.b.ii

did not believe at the time of completing the certificate that there was a
relevant defect,

it does not have to contain the information referred to in paragraph (3) nor
be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraph (4).

6.2C

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2C.a

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)—

6.2C.a.i

met the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule, or

6.2C.a.ii

did not believe at the time of completing the certificate that there was a
relevant defect, and

6.2C.b

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
did not meet the contribution condition under paragraph 3 of that Schedule,

it does not have to contain the information referred to in paragraphs (3)(a)
and (b) nor be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraph (4)(d).

6.2D

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2D.a

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
did not meet the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule, and

6.2D.b

either the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to
the Act) met the contribution condition under paragraph 3 of that Schedule, or
the leaseholder’s lease is not a qualifying lease as defined in section 119 of
the Act,

it does not have to contain the information referred to in paragraphs (3)(a)
and (c) nor be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraphs (4)(a), (b),
(e) and (f).

6.2E

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2E.a

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
did not meet the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule, and

6.2E.b

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
is exempt from the contribution condition under paragraph 3(6) of that
Schedule,

it does not have to contain the information referred to in paragraph (3)(c)
nor be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraphs (4)(a) and (b).

6.2F

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2F.a

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)—

6.2F.a.i

met the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule, or

6.2F.a.ii

did not believe at the time of completing the certificate that there was a
relevant defect, and

6.2F.b

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
is exempt from the contribution condition under paragraph 3(6) of that
Schedule,

it does not have to contain the information referred to in paragraph (3) nor
be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraphs (4)(a), (b) and (d).

6.2G

Where the landlord’s certificate confirms that—

6.2G.a

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
did not meet the condition in paragraph 2(2) of that Schedule,

6.2G.b

the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
did not meet the contribution condition under paragraph 3 of that Schedule,
and

6.2G.c

the value of the qualifying lease on 14th February 2022 was below £325,000 in
Greater London or £175,000 elsewhere in England,

it does not have to be accompanied by the evidence set out in paragraphs
(4)(e) and (f).

6.3

The information is—

6.3.a

the percentage of the storeys in the relevant building for which each relevant
landlord was the landlord at the qualifying time;

6.3.b

in relation to the condition in paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to the Act, where a
relevant landlord was part of a landlord group at the qualifying time, details
of the corporate structure of the relevant landlord and any person associated
with the relevant landlord and including—

6.3.b.i

the names of all the directors of each company in that group and directors of
each corporate trustee, including in each case nominee and shadow directors or
any person occupying the position of director by whatever name called;

6.3.b.ii

the name of any other person or persons who has the right to exercise or does
exercise significant control or influence directly or indirectly over the
group;

6.3.b.iii

details of the type of trust if any, the law to which it is subject and where
it is tax resident; and

6.3.b.iv

in relation to trusts with an interest in the shares of any company comprised
in the group, details of the economic settlor, the named beneficiaries or
class of beneficiaries and protector and any other person who has the right to
exercise or does exercise significant influence or control directly or
indirectly over the trust;

6.3.c

in relation to the condition in paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act, where
the relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 3(1) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
was part of a landlord group at the qualifying time—

6.3.c.i

details of the corporate structure of the group, setting out—

6.3.c.i.aa

the companies which make up the landlord group,

6.3.c.i.bb

the beneficial owner of each company in the group, and

6.3.c.i.cc

if the beneficial owner of the group or any company comprised in the group is,
or includes, a trust foundation or arrangement of a similar character, details
of the trust and the trustees;

6.3.c.ii

the name of any other person who has the right to exercise or does exercise
significant control or influence directly or indirectly over the group;

6.3.c.iii

details of the type of trust if any, the law to which it is subject and where
it is tax resident; and

6.3.c.iv

in relation to trusts with an interest in the shares of any company comprised
in the group—

6.3.c.iv.aa

details of the economic settlor;

6.3.c.iv.bb

the named beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries and protector, and

6.3.c.iv.cc

any other person who has the right to exercise or does exercise significant
influence or control directly or indirectly over the trust.

6.4

The landlord certificate must be accompanied by—

6.4.a

the set of company accounts for the relevant landlord (in accordance with
regulation 5) and, where the relevant landlord is part of a landlord group,
for each company in the landlord group;

6.4.b

a statement from a chartered accountant or finance director of the landlord
company—

6.4.b.i

setting out the net worth of the relevant landlord and, where the relevant
landlord is part of a landlord group, of each company in the landlord group;

6.4.b.ii

confirming the net worth is calculated in accordance with regulation 5 and
paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act (the “net worth calculation”);

6.4.b.iii

confirming the net worth calculations accurately represents the net worth of
the relevant landlord (and, where the relevant landlord is part of a landlord
group, of each of the companies in the landlord group);

6.4.c

documents or receipts that demonstrate that the relevant building was
constructed or converted before the relevant period  and details of any
relevant works  which were carried out in the relevant period;

6.4.d

evidence (where applicable) that—

6.4.d.i

the person who undertook works relating to the relevant defect or commissioned
those works was not the relevant landlord and was not associated with the
relevant landlord (as defined in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act)
together with confirmation of the identity of the person who did undertake
such works, and

6.4.d.ii

where those works were commissioned or undertaken by a joint venture, proof
the relevant landlord was not party to that joint venture, together with
details of the persons who were parties to the joint venture;

6.4.e

details of any relevant defects and   any relevant measures (as defined in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 8 to the Act) taken in relation to those relevant
defects since 28th June 2017 ; and

6.4.f

details of any costs paid or due to be paid in relation to   any relevant
measures taken in relation to   any relevant defects in the relevant building
since 28 June 2017, including—

6.4.f.i

the total sum of any such costs;

6.4.f.ii

details of the number of flats between which the costs should be divided; and

6.4.f.iii

the leaseholder’s maximum remaining liability.

6.5

In paragraph (4)(f)(iii), the “leaseholder’s maximum remaining liability” is
the maximum capped amount payable by the leaseholder in respect of a relevant
measure  deducting any payments made by the leaseholder in respect of any
relevant measure since 28 June 2017.

6.6

Where the current landlord is unable to provide any of the information
required for the landlord’s certificate in paragraphs (3) and (4) the current
landlord must apply to other persons who are relevant landlords requesting the
information in accordance with regulation 7 which those persons must provide
within 3 weeks of having been asked.

6.7

  If a current landlord   does not provide a certificate which complies with
this regulation in the form outlined in   Schedule 1   to the leaseholder, the
condition in paragraph 2(2) of Schedule 8 to the Act is to be treated as met
in accordance with paragraph 14(2) of Schedule 8 to the Act.

6.8

In this regulation, “relevant landlord”—

6.8.a

in paragraphs (2)(b)   , (2B)(a), (2C)(b), (2D)(b), (2E)(b), (2F)(b), (2G)(b),
(3)(c)  and (4)(a) and (b), has the meaning given in paragraph 3(1) of
Schedule 8 to the Act;

6.8.b

otherwise, has the meaning given in paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the Act.

6.9

Where a current landlord has provided a landlord’s certificate to a
leaseholder they must provide a copy of that certificate to any other
landlords of premises in the building, the RMC, RTM company or named manager
within one week of providing the certificate to the leaseholder.

6.10

Where a current landlord fails to comply with the requirement in paragraph (9)
the costs of a relevant measure relating to a relevant defect in the building
to which the certificate relates are prescribed costs under paragraph 16(4) of
Schedule 8 to the Act and so are not to be regarded as relevant costs to be
taken into account in determining the amount of a service charge payable under
a relevant lease of premises in that building and must not be met from a
relevant reserve fund as defined in paragraph 10 of Schedule 8 to the Act.

### Landlord’s certificate to other landlords in the building

7

A relevant landlord within the meaning of paragraph 2(4) of Schedule 8 to the
Act must, within 3 weeks of a request from the current landlord, provide the
current landlord with the following information—

7.a

the percentage of the storeys in the relevant building for which they were the
relevant landlord at the qualifying time;

7.b

where the relevant landlord was part of a landlord group at the qualifying
time, details of the corporate structure of that landlord’s group  and
including—

7.b.i

the names of all the directors of each company in that group and directors of
each corporate trustee, including in each case nominee and shadow directors or
any person occupying the position of director by whatever name called;

7.b.ii

the name of any other person or persons who has the right to exercise or does
exercise significant control or influence directly or indirectly over the
group;

7.b.iii

details of the type of trust if any, the law to which it is subject and where
it is tax resident; and

7.b.iv

in relation to trusts with an interest in the shares of any company comprised
in the group, details of the economic settlor, the named beneficiaries or
class of beneficiaries and protector and any other person who has the right to
exercise or does exercise significant influence or control directly or
indirectly over the trust.

### Disapplication of paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act

8

The following persons are prescribed for the purposes of paragraph 3(6)(c) of
Schedule 8 to the Act—

8.a

government departments and any arm’s length bodies;

8.b

the Crown;

8.c

NHS Foundation trusts.

### Determination of the value of a qualifying lease

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph (2), for the purposes of paragraph 4 and/or paragraph
6(6) of Schedule 8 to the Act the value of a qualifying lease is—

9.1.a

where the leasehold interest of the dwelling (“ D ”) to which the qualifying
lease relates was most recently disposed of after 31 December 2020, the price
paid at completion (in pounds sterling to the nearest pound) for that
leasehold interest;

9.1.b

where the most recent disposal of D took place on the open market on or before
31 December 2020, to be determined by applying the following formula—

V y  × M y

where—

      V y  is the price paid at completion (in pounds sterling to the nearest
pound) for D;           M y  is the multiplier for the year in which that
disposal took place, as set out in the table in Schedule 2.

9.2

Where it is not possible to identify the price paid on completion of the most
recent disposal of D then the value of the qualifying leasehold interest is to
be treated as equal to the value of the substitute qualifying lease.

9.3

In this regulation—

9.3.a

“ substitute qualifying lease ” means a qualifying lease of the most recently
disposed of dwelling in the same building, ignoring any dwellings which had an
internal floorspace which is more than 15% larger or 15% smaller than D; and

9.3.b

any reference to a disposal means a disposal on the open market.

### Application of service charge restrictions to non-residential leases

10

10.1

The reference in paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to the Act which states that no
service charge is payable under a  ... lease in a relevant building in respect
of a relevant measure relating to a relevant defect is modified in accordance
with   paragraph (2) .

10.2

For the purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to the Act—

10.2.a

no service charge is payable under a non-residential lease in a relevant
building where the conditions set out in paragraph 2(2) of the Act are met;
and

10.2.b

the reference in paragraph 10(2) of Schedule 8 to the Act applies to non-
residential leases.

### Application to First-tier Tribunal

11

11.1

This regulation applies where a leaseholder or relevant landlord (the
“applicant”) wishes to apply to the First-tier Tribunal for an order under
paragraph 16(5) of Schedule 8 to the Act.

11.2

The applicant can make an application under paragraph (1) above where—

11.2.a

the applicant believes that a relevant landlord has made a false claim in the
landlord’s certificate provided under regulation 6, including but not limited
to—

11.2.a.i

stating that the relevant landlord is not the developer  of the relevant
building or is not associated with the developer; or

11.2.a.ii

stating the relevant landlord does not meet the contribution condition;

11.2.b

the relevant landlord or current landlord has not given the leaseholder
sufficient time  to provide information to prove they have a qualifying lease
.

11.3

In this regulation, “ relevant landlord ” has the meaning given in paragraph
16(8) of Schedule 8 to the Act.

### Persons entitled to apply to the High Court for an information order in connection with a building liability order

12

For the purposes of section 132 of the Act, any person making, or intending to
make, an application for a building liability order under section 130 of the
Act may apply to the High Court for an information order.

### Review

13

13.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

13.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations,
and

13.1.b

publish a report settling out the conclusions of the review.

13.2

The first report must be published before the end of the period of five years
beginning with the date on which these Regulations come into force.

13.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

13.4

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report published under this regulation must, in particular—

13.4.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a),

13.4.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved,

13.4.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate, and

13.4.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involved less onerous regulatory provision.

    Signed by the authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up,
Housing and Communities     Greenhalgh   Minister for Building Safety and Fire
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities   28th June 2022

Regulation 6













  Uprating values

Regulation 9

      Year M y   1970 or earlier 72.14 1971 64.15 1972 47.16 1973 34.53 1974
32.22 1975 30.58 1976 28.29 1977 26.38 1978 22.65 1979 17.45 1980 14.39 1981
13.61 1982 13.34 1983 11.95 1984 10.86 1985 9.97 1986 8.70 1987 7.38 1988 5.71
1989 4.80 1990 4.89 1991 5.00 1992 5.25 1993 5.36 1994 5.22 1995 5.21 1996
5.11 1997 4.63 1998 4.17 1999 3.72 2000 3.10 2001 2.72 2002 2.25 2003 1.92
2004 1.69 2005 1.61 2006 1.51 2007 1.37 2008 1.43 2009 1.59 2010 1.51 2011
1.52 2012 1.49 2013 1.43 2014 1.28 2015 1.19 2016 1.10 2017 1.04 2018 1.04
2019 1.05 2020 1.04

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

Sections 116 to 125 of, and Schedule 8 to, the Building Safety Act  2022 (c.
30)  (“ the Act ”) make provision in relation to remediation of certain
defects in buildings over 11 metres in height (or of at least 5 storeys). In
particular, those provisions include protections from liability for
leaseholders in specific circumstances.

These Regulations support those leaseholder protection provisions.

Regulation 2 defines “leaseholder owned” for the purpose of the definition of
“relevant building” in section 117 of the Act, as leaseholder owned buildings
are not ‘relevant buildings’ for the purposes of these provisions.

Regulation 3 modifies the definition of ‘associated’ in section 121 of the Act
in relation that term as used in paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act, to
limit the circumstances in which companies are considered to be associated
when calculating the value of the company group.

Regulation 4 expands the list of people who can apply for a remediation
contribution order under section 124 of the Act to include leaseholder owned
buildings, but does not permit a remediation contribution order to be sought
against the landlord of a leaseholder owned building or a commonhold
association.

Regulation 5 sets out how a landlord or a landlord’s group should prove their
net worth and, therefore, whether or not they fulfil the contribution
condition in paragraph 3 of Schedule 8 to the Act. The regulation contains
information on what the landlord needs to put into their certificate to
demonstrate their worth to the leaseholder, whether the landlord is a company
or an individual.

Regulation 6 sets out the further information (including details of the
landlord’s net worth) which should be included in a certificate provided to
the tenants known as the Landlord’s certificate. This certificate will also
have details of the group structure of all the landlords at the relevant
building, dates of when the building was built, converted or had works carried
out on it, the cost of any remediation works, how much the tenant has already
contributed to those works, and the maximum amount for which the tenant might
still be liable.

Regulation 7 sets out the information which other landlords in the building
must provide to the current landlord in order for the current landlord to be
able to provide the Landlord’s certificate to the tenant.

Regulation 8 stipulates that government departments and any arms’ length
bodies, the Crown, and NHS foundation trusts will not have to provide details
of their net worth and do not fall within in the scope of paragraph 3 of
Schedule 8 to the Act.

Regulation 9 sets out how the value of a leasehold interest is determined, as
if a tenant has a lease under a certain value (see paragraph 4 of Schedule 8
to the Act) they will not pay any service charge and if the lease is over a
certain value (paragraph 6 of Schedule 8 to the Act) they will pay more than
the permitted maximum. It also sets out how to ascertain the value when the
leasehold interest has not been sold on the open market recently.

Regulation 10 states that where the landlord is the developer and therefore,
under paragraph 2 of Schedule 8 to the Act, has to pay for remediation of all
of the building with no payments by any leaseholders whether qualifying or
not, the landlord cannot take the monies to pay for the remediation out of any
commercial service charge reserve fund.

Regulation 11 provides that tenants and other landlords in a building can
apply to the First-tier Tribunal to appeal where they believe that any
landlord in the building has not provided all the information required under
these regulations.

Regulation 12 allows anyone applying to the High Court for a building
liability order (see section 130 of the Act) to also be able to apply for
information on the corporate structure of person against whom they are
applying for the order.

Regulation 13 provides for a periodic review of regulatory provisions of these
Regulations.

An impact assessment is available with the explanatory memorandum for these
Regulations at  www.legislation.gov.uk . A copy may be inspected at the
Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities, 2 Marsham Street, London
SW1P 4DF.

