Title: The Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales) (Amendment) Order 2022
Date: 2023-06-08
Description: This Order amends article 2 of the Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales) Order 2001 (“the Order”) to add corporate joint committees established under Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1) to the list of relevant authorities, making the principles in the Schedule to the Order applicable to members of corporate joint committees.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/805

## The Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales) (Amendment) Order 2022

    Local Government, Wales

  Made   13 July 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   15 July 2022

  Coming into force   5 August 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred on them by
sections 49(2) and 105(2)(a) of the Local Government Act 2000 , make the
following Order.         In accordance with section 49(5)  of that Act, the
Welsh Ministers have consulted such representatives of relevant authorities as
they consider appropriate, the Auditor General for Wales, the Public Services
Ombudsman for Wales, and such other persons as they considered appropriate.

### Title and coming into force

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales)
(Amendment) Order 2022.

1.2

This Order comes into force on 5 August 2022.

### Amendment of article 2 of the Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales) Order 2001

2

In the definition of “relevant authority” in article 2 ( Interpretation ) of
the Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales) Order 2001  after “a community
council,” insert—

2.ca

a corporate joint committee established by regulations made under Part 5 of
the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act 2021 (asc 1) ,

.

      Rebecca Evans   Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the
Welsh Ministers   13 July 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order amends article 2 of the Conduct of Members (Principles) (Wales)
Order 2001 (“ the Order ”) to add corporate joint committees established under
Part 5 of the Local Government and Elections (Wales) Act  2021 (asc 1)  to the
list of relevant authorities, making the principles in the Schedule to the
Order applicable to members of corporate joint committees.

The Schedule to the Order sets out the principles which govern the conduct of
the members of relevant authorities in Wales.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to the regulations which establish
corporate joint committees and connected orders and regulations. As a result,
a regulatory impact assessment was prepared at the time of making those
establishment regulations and is relied upon for the purpose of this Order. A
copy can be obtained from the Local Government Strategic Finance Division,
Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ

