Title: The Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: These Regulations amend the Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Disclosure) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (“the 2008 Regulations”) to make provision for enhanced criminal record checks with suitability information in relation to individuals who are seeking to provide accommodation to Ukrainian nationals and their immediate family members under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme (“the Scheme”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/212

## The Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Criminal Law

  Made   9th September 2022

  Coming into operation-   3rd October 2022

      The Department of Justice makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 113B(2)(b), 113BA(1), 113BB(1), 125(1) and
(5) of the Police Act 1997  as modified by section 126A  of that Act.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records)
(Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation
on 3rd October 2022.

### Amendment of the Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Disclosure) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008

2

2.1

The Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Disclosure) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2008  are amended as follows—

2.2

After regulation 9(1)(o) insert—

2.2.p

considering the applicant’s suitability to provide accommodation to a person
who has permission to enter into or to stay in the United Kingdom granted
under the immigration rules laid down under section 3(2) of the Immigration
Act 1971  in relation to the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme .

2.2.q

considering an applicant under the Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme
where:-

2.2.q.i

the applicant resides in the same household as an individual whose suitability
to provide accommodation, to a person who has permission to enter into or stay
in the United Kingdom granted under the immigration rules laid down under
section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 in relation to the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme, is being assessed; and

2.2.q.ii

the applicant, and the individual whose suitability to provide accommodation
is being assessed, reside in the accommodation to be provided.

2.3

In regulation 9A, after “(l)” omit “or (m)” and after “(l)” insert  “,(m), (p)
or (q)” .

2.4

In regulation 9B, after “(m)” omit “or (o)” and after “(m)” insert  “,(o), (p)
or (q)” .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 9th
September 2022.         Naomi Long   Minister of Justice

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations amend the Police Act 1997 (Criminal Records) (Disclosure)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2008 (“ the 2008 Regulations ”) to make
provision for enhanced criminal record checks with suitability information in
relation to individuals who are seeking to provide accommodation to Ukrainian
nationals and their immediate family members under the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme (“ the Scheme ”).

  The 2008 Regulations make detailed provision in relation to applications for
criminal conviction certificates, criminal record certificates and enhanced
criminal record certificates under Part 5 of the Police Act 1997 (“ the 1997
Act ”). Regulation 9 of the 2008 Regulations prescribes the purposes for which
an enhanced criminal record certificate may be required. Regulations 9A and 9B
prescribe the cases in which an enhanced criminal record certificate must also
include suitability information relating to children and adults.

  Regulation 2(2) of these Regulations amends regulation 9 of the 2008
Regulations, creating two new prescribed purposes for which an enhanced
criminal record certificate may be required. The effect of the amendment is to
enable enhanced criminal record checks to be carried out in relation to
individuals who are offering to provide accommodation (and those individuals
who also reside in the same accommodation) to a person who has permission to
enter into or to stay in the United Kingdom under the Scheme.

  Regulations 2(3) and 2(4) amend regulation 9A and 9B of the 2008
Regulations, to make provision for checks on suitability information (barred
list information) in respect of both children and vulnerable adults, for the
new prescribed purposes set out in regulation 2(2).

  This Order comes in to operation on 3rd October 2022.

