Title: The Renting Homes (Deposit Schemes) (Required Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-15
Description: Under paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 (deposit schemes: further provision) to the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016 (anaw 1) (“the Act”), the Welsh Ministers must make arrangements for securing that one or more deposit schemes are available for safeguarding deposits paid in connection with occupation contracts and facilitating the resolution of disputes arising in connection with such deposits.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/250

## The Renting Homes (Deposit Schemes) (Required Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Housing, Wales

  Made   8 March 2022

  Laid before Senedd Cymru   10 March 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with regulation 1

      The Welsh Ministers make these Regulations in exercise of the powers
conferred on them by sections 45(3)  and 256(1) of the Renting Homes (Wales)
Act 2016 .

### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Renting Homes (Deposit Schemes)
(Required Information) (Wales) Regulations 2022 and they come into force on
the day on   1 December 2022 (the day on which section 239 of the Renting
Homes (Wales) Act 2016 comes into force)  .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations, “the Act” means the Renting Homes (Wales) Act 2016.

2.2

The words and expressions used in these Regulations have the same meaning as
they have in the Act.

### Required information relating to deposits

3

3.1

The following is required information for the purposes of section 45(3) of the
Act—

3.1.a

the name, address, telephone number and email address of the scheme
administrator  of the deposit scheme  applying to the deposit,

3.1.b

any information supplied by the scheme administrator to the landlord which
explains the operation of sections 45 to 47  of, and Schedule 5 to, the Act,

3.1.c

the procedures that apply under the deposit scheme by which an amount in
respect of a deposit may be paid or repaid to the contract-holder at the end
of the occupation contract,

3.1.d

the procedures that apply under the deposit scheme where either the landlord
or the contract-holder is not contactable at the end of the occupation
contract,

3.1.e

the procedures that apply under the deposit scheme where the landlord and the
contract-holder dispute the amount to be paid or repaid to the contract-holder
in respect of the deposit,

3.1.f

the facilities available under the deposit scheme for enabling a dispute
relating to the deposit to be resolved without recourse to litigation, and

3.1.g

the following information in connection with the occupation contract in
respect of which the deposit has been paid—

3.1.g.i

the amount of the deposit paid,

3.1.g.ii

the address of the dwelling to which the occupation contract relates,

3.1.g.iii

the name, address, telephone number and any e-mail address of the landlord,

3.1.g.iv

the name, address, telephone number and any e-mail address of the contract-
holder, including such details that should be used by the landlord or scheme
administrator for the purpose of contacting the contract-holder at the end of
the occupation contract,

3.1.g.v

the name, address, telephone number and any e-mail address of any person who,
in accordance with arrangements made with the contract-holder, paid the
deposit on behalf of the contract-holder,

3.1.g.vi

the circumstances when all or part of the deposit may be retained by the
landlord, by reference to the terms of the occupation contract, and

3.1.g.vii

confirmation (in the form of a certificate signed by the landlord) that—

3.1.g.vii.aa

the information provided under sub-paragraph (g) is accurate to the best of
the landlord’s knowledge and belief, and

3.1.g.vii.bb

the landlord has given the contract-holder the opportunity to sign any
document containing the information provided by the landlord under paragraph
(1).

3.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d), the reference to a landlord or a
contract-holder who is not contactable includes a landlord or contract-holder
whose whereabouts are known but who has failed, within a reasonable period of
time, to respond to communications in respect of the deposit.

### Revocation

4

The Housing (Tenancy Deposits) (Prescribed Information) Order 2007  is revoked
in relation to Wales.

      Julie James   Minister for Climate Change, one of the Welsh Ministers

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

Under paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 (deposit schemes: further provision) to the
Renting Homes (Wales) Act  2016 (anaw 1)  (“the Act”), the Welsh Ministers
must make arrangements for securing that one or more deposit schemes are
available for safeguarding deposits paid in connection with occupation
contracts and facilitating the resolution of disputes arising in connection
with such deposits.

Section 45(2) of the Act requires that where a landlord receives a deposit in
connection with an occupation contract, the landlord must, within 30 days of
the date on which the deposit is received, comply with any initial
requirements imposed by the authorised deposit scheme and give the contract-
holder (and person who has paid the deposit on behalf of the contract-holder)
the required information. Section 45(3) of the Act provides that the required
information is such information as may be prescribed relating to the relevant
authorised deposit scheme, the landlord’s compliance with the initial
requirements of that scheme and the operation of Chapter 4 of the Act which
deals with deposits and deposit schemes. These Regulations prescribe that
information.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Department of Housing, Welsh Government, Rhydycar Business Park, Merthyr
Tydfil, CF48 1UZ.

