Title: The Education (Student Finance) (Ukrainian Nationals and Family Members) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-05-26
Description: These Regulations amend:the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007 (see Part 2 of the Regulations),the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014 (see Part 3 of the Regulations),the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (see Part 4 of the Regulations),the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017 (see Part 5 of the Regulations),the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (see Part 6 of the Regulations),the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (see Part 7 of the Regulations), andthe Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019 (see Part 8 of the Regulations).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/764

## The Education (Student Finance) (Ukrainian Nationals and Family Members) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations 2022

Education, Wales

Made 5 July 2022

Laid before Senedd Cymru 7 July 2022

Coming into force 24 July 2022

The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred upon the Secretary of
State by sections 1 and 2 of the Education (Fees and Awards) Act 1983  and
sections 22(1)(a), 22(2)(a) and (d) and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher
Education Act 1998  and now exercisable by them  and powers conferred on them
under sections 5(5)(b) and 55(2) of the Higher Education (Wales) Act 2015 ,
make the following Regulations:

### Title, commencement and application

#### Title and commencement

1

The title of these Regulations is the Education (Student Finance) (Ukrainian
Nationals and Family Members) (Miscellaneous Amendments) (Wales) Regulations
2022.

2

These Regulations come into force on 24 July 2022.

#### Application

3

These Regulations apply in relation to the provision of support to a student
in relation to an academic year which begins on or after 1 August 2022,
whether or not anything done under these Regulations is done before, on or
after that date.

### Amendments to the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007

#### Introduction

4

The Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to regulations 4 to 8

5

In regulation 4(1)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

6

In regulation 5(1)—

6.a

in sub-paragraph (b)(i), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” ;

6.b

in sub-paragraph (c)(i), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

7

In regulation 6—

7.a

in paragraph (2)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” ;

7.b

in paragraph (3)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

8

In regulation 7—

8.a

in paragraph (2)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” ;

8.b

in paragraph (3)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

9

In regulation 8—

9.a

in paragraph (1)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” ;

9.b

in paragraph (2)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

#### Amendment to the Schedule

10

In the Schedule—

10.a

in paragraph 1, at the appropriate place insert—

“protected Ukrainian national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”) means a
person granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph
9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme) or
27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration
rules; or outside the immigration rules, where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022;

;

10.b

after paragraph 4B insert—

10.b.4C

A person who—

10.b.4C.a

is a protected Ukrainian national;

10.b.4C.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national; and

10.b.4C.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first
academic year of the course.

### Amendments to the Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014

#### Introduction

11

The Education (European University Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014  are
amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment to regulation 3

12

In regulation 3(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“protected Ukrainian national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”) means a
person granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph
9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme) or
27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration
rules; or outside the immigration rules, where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022;

.

#### Amendment to regulation 6

13

In regulation 6—

13.a

in paragraph (2)(b)—

13.a.i

for paragraph (i) substitute—

13.a.i.i

in paragraphs 2, 2A, 3, 4, 4ZA, 4ZB, 4ZC, 5, 6A, 8A, 9A, 9B, 9BA, 9C, 9D, 10A,
11A and 12A of Part 2 of Schedule 1, or

;

13.a.ii

for paragraph (ii) substitute—

13.a.ii.ii

in paragraphs 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 of Part 2 of Schedule 1, where
paragraph (2A) applies.

;

13.b

after paragraph (10F) insert—

13.b.10G

Where—

13.b.10G.a

the Welsh Ministers determined, that by virtue of being a protected Ukrainian
national, a person (“A” in this paragraph) was an eligible student in
connection with an application for support for an earlier year of the current
course or in connection with an application for support for a designated
course at the Institute from which A’s status as an eligible student has been
transferred to the current course; and

13.b.10G.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which A is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom as a protected Ukrainian national has expired and no further leave to
enter or remain has been granted,

Aʼs status as an eligible student terminates immediately before the first day
of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for support.

#### Amendment to Schedule 1

14

In Schedule 1, after paragraph 4ZB insert—

######## Protected Ukrainian nationals

14.4ZC

A person who—

14.4ZC.a

is a protected Ukrainian national;

14.4ZC.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national; and

14.4ZC.c

is ordinarily resident in Wales on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

### Amendments to the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015

#### Introduction

15

The Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary
Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment to regulation 4

16

In regulation 4(9)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

#### Amendments to the Schedule

17

In the Schedule—

17.a

in paragraph 1(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“protected Ukrainian national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”) means a
person granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph
9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme) or
27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration
rules; or outside the immigration rules, where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022;

;

17.b

after paragraph 4B insert—

########## Protected Ukrainian nationals

17.b.4C

A person who—

17.b.4C.a

is a protected Ukrainian national;

17.b.4C.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national; and

17.b.4C.c

is ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom on the first day of the first
academic year of the course.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017

#### Introduction

18

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment to regulation 2

19

In regulation 2(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“protected Ukrainian national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”) means a
person granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph
9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme) or
27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration
rules; or outside the immigration rules, where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022;

.

#### Amendment to regulation 4

20

In regulation 4—

20.a

in paragraph (2)(a), after “4ZB,” insert  “4ZC,” ;

20.b

after paragraph (10E) insert—

20.b.10F

Where—

20.b.10F.a

the Welsh Ministers have determined that by virtue of being a protected
Ukrainian national, a person (“A” in this paragraph) was—

20.b.10F.a.i

an eligible student in connection with an application for support for an
earlier year of the present course, an application for support for a course in
relation to which the present course is an end-on course or an application for
support in connection with a designated part-time course or other designated
course from which A’s status as an eligible part-time student or eligible
student has been transferred to the present course; or

20.b.10F.a.ii

a qualifying student in connection with an application for support for an
earlier year of the qualifying course or other qualifying course from which
A’s status as a qualifying student has been transferred to the qualifying
course in respect of which the student is applying for support; and

20.b.10F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support starts, the period for which A is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom as a protected Ukrainian national has expired and no further leave to
enter or remain has been granted,

Aʼs status as an eligible or qualifying student terminates immediately before
the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support.

#### Amendment to regulation 15

21

In regulation 15, after paragraph (bb) insert—

21.bc

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to regulation 23

22

In regulation 23—

22.a

in paragraph (12), after sub-paragraph (bb) insert—

22.a.bc

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

;

22.b

omit paragraph (17).

#### Amendment to regulation 26

23

In regulation 26(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment to regulation 27

24

In regulation 27(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment of regulation 28

25

In regulation 28(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment to regulation 49

26

In regulation 49(2), after sub-paragraph (bb) insert—

26.bc

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to regulations 81 and 82

27

In regulation 81—

27.a

in paragraph (2)(a), after “4ZB,” insert  “4ZC,” ;

27.b

after paragraph (10E) insert—

27.b.10F

Where—

27.b.10F.a

the Welsh Ministers determined that, by virtue of being a protected Ukrainian
national, a person (“A” in this paragraph) was an eligible part-time student
in connection with an application for support for an earlier year of the
present part-time course or an application for support in connection with a
designated course or other designated part-time course from which A’s status
as an eligible part-time student or eligible student has been transferred to
the present part-time course; and

27.b.10F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which A is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom as a protected Ukrainian national has expired and no further leave to
enter or remain has been granted,

Aʼs status as an eligible part-time student terminates immediately before the
first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for support.

28

In regulation 82(4), after sub-paragraph (bb) insert—

28.bc

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to regulation 91

29

In regulation 91(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment to regulation 92

30

In regulation 92(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment to regulation 93

31

In regulation 93(1), after “attendance on” insert  “or undertaking of” .

#### Amendment to regulations 110 and 111

32

In regulation 110—

32.a

in paragraph (3)(a)(i), after “4ZB,” insert  “4ZC,” ;

32.b

after paragraph (12E) insert—

32.b.12F

Where—

32.b.12F.a

the Welsh Ministers have determined that, by virtue of being a protected
Ukrainian national, a person (“A” in this paragraph) was an eligible
postgraduate student in connection with an application for support for an
earlier year of the present postgraduate course or an application for support
in connection with another designated postgraduate course, from which A’s
status as an eligible postgraduate student has been transferred to the present
postgraduate course; and

32.b.12F.b

as at the day before the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support begins, the period for which A is allowed to stay in the United
Kingdom as a protected Ukrainian national has expired and no further leave to
enter or remain has been granted,

Aʼs status as an eligible postgraduate student terminates immediately before
the first day of the academic year in respect of which A is applying for
support.

33

After regulation 111(2)(bb) insert—

33.bc

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to Schedule 1

34

In Schedule 1, after paragraph 4ZB insert—

######## Protected Ukrainian nationals

34.4ZC

A person who—

34.4ZC.a

is a protected Ukrainian national;

34.4ZC.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national; and

34.4ZC.c

is ordinarily resident in Wales on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

#### Amendment to Schedule 4

35

In Schedule 4, paragraph 6, after sub-paragraph (ab) insert—

35.ac

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

36

The Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018  are amended in
accordance with this Part.

#### Amendment to regulation 9

37

In regulation 9(1)(a)(i), after “2ZB,” insert  “2ZC,” .

#### Amendment to regulation 12

38

In regulation 12(1), for “23E or 23F” substitute  “23E, 23F or 23G” .

#### Insertion of new regulation 23G

39

After regulation 23F insert—

39.23G

39.23G.1

This regulation applies where—

39.23G.1.a

a person (“P”) was an eligible student as a result of being a protected
Ukrainian national (see Schedule 2, paragraph 2ZC) in connection with an
application for support—

39.23G.1.a.i

for an earlier year of the present course,

39.23G.1.a.ii

for a full-time course in relation to which the present course is a full-time
end-on course, or

39.23G.1.a.iii

for a course from which P’s status as an eligible student has been transferred
to the present course under regulation 28 or paragraph 7 of Schedule 5, and

39.23G.1.b

as at the end of the day before the first day of the academic year in respect
of which P is applying for support, the period for which P is allowed to stay
in the United Kingdom has expired and no further leave to remain has been
granted.

39.23G.2

Where this regulation applies, P’s status as an eligible student terminates
immediately before the first day of the academic year in respect of which P is
applying for support.

#### Amendment to regulation 69

40

In regulation 69, in paragraph (2), omit Exception 5.

#### Amendment to regulation 80

41

In regulation 80—

41.a

in paragraph (2)(b), after paragraph (ic) insert—

41.a.id

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

;

41.b

in paragraph (3), at the appropriate place insert  ““protected Ukrainian
national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”);” .

#### Amendment to regulation 81

42

In regulation 81(3)(b), after paragraph (ic) insert—

42.id

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to Schedule 2

43

In Schedule 2, after paragraph 2ZB insert—

######## Category 2ZC – Protected Ukrainian nationals

43.2ZC

43.2ZC.1

A person who—

43.2ZC.1.a

is a protected Ukrainian national,

43.2ZC.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national, and

43.2ZC.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Wales on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

43.2ZC.2

In this paragraph, “protected Ukrainian national” means a person granted leave
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom—

43.2ZC.2.a

under paragraph 9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme) or 27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine
Scheme of the immigration rules, or

43.2ZC.2.b

outside the immigration rules, where the person—

43.2ZC.2.b.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

43.2ZC.2.b.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022.

#### Amendment to Schedule 4

44

In Schedule 4—

44.a

in paragraph 4(1)(a)(i), after “2ZB,” insert  “2ZC,” ;

44.b

after paragraph 13F insert—

44.b.13G

44.b.13G.1

This paragraph applies where—

44.b.13G.1.a

a person (“P”) was an eligible postgraduate student by reason of them being a
protected Ukrainian national (see Schedule 2, paragraph 2ZC) in connection
with an application for a disabled postgraduate student’s grant—

44.b.13G.1.a.i

for an earlier year of the present postgraduate course, or

44.b.13G.1.a.ii

in connection with a course from which P’s status as an eligible postgraduate
student has been transferred to the present postgraduate course under
paragraph 15, and

44.b.13G.1.b

as at the end of the day before the first day of the academic year in respect
of which P is applying for a disabled postgraduate student’s grant, the period
for which P is allowed to stay in the United Kingdom has expired and no
further leave to remain has been granted.

44.b.13G.2

Where this paragraph applies, P’s status as an eligible postgraduate student
terminates immediately before the first day of the academic year in respect of
which P is applying for support.

;

44.c

in paragraph 14—

44.c.i

in sub-paragraph (3)(b), after paragraph (ic) insert—

44.c.i.id

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

;

44.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (4), at the appropriate place insert  ““protected Ukrainian
national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”);” .

#### Amendment to Schedule 7

45

In Schedule 7, in Table 16, at the appropriate place insert the following
table entry—

“protected Ukrainian national” Schedule 2, paragraph 2ZC(2)

### Amendments to the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018

#### Introduction

46

The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018
are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to regulations 2, 3 and 8

47

In regulation 2(1), at the appropriate place insert—

“protected Ukrainian national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”) means a
person granted leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom— under paragraph
9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme) or
27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine Scheme of the immigration
rules; or outside the immigration rules, where the person— was residing in
Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022; and left Ukraine in connection with
the Russian invasion which took place on 24 February 2022;

.

48

In regulation 3(2)(a), after “4B,” insert  “4C,” .

49

In regulation 8, after paragraph (bc) insert—

49.bd

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

.

#### Amendment to Schedule 1

50

In Schedule 1, after paragraph 4B insert—

######## Protected Ukrainian nationals

50.4C

A person who—

50.4C.a

is a protected Ukrainian national;

50.4C.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national; and

50.4C.c

is ordinarily resident in Wales on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

### Amendments to the Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales) Regulations 2019

#### Introduction

51

The Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales)
Regulations 2019  are amended in accordance with this Part.

#### Amendments to regulations 9 and 16

52

In regulation 9(1)(a)(i) after “2B,” insert  “2C,” .

53

In regulation 16—

53.a

in paragraph (1)(b), after paragraph (ia) insert—

53.a.ib

the student becomes a protected Ukrainian national;

;

53.b

in paragraph (2), at the appropriate place insert  ““protected Ukrainian
national” (“ gwladolyn Wcreinaidd a ddiogelir ”);” .

#### Amendment to Schedule 2

54

In Schedule 2, after paragraph 2B insert—

######## Category 2C – Protected Ukrainian nationals

54.2C

54.2C.1

A person who—

54.2C.1.a

is a protected Ukrainian national,

54.2C.1.b

has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the
period since becoming a protected Ukrainian national, and

54.2C.1.c

is ordinarily resident in Wales on the first day of the first academic year of
the course.

54.2C.2

In this paragraph, “protected Ukrainian national” means a person granted leave
to enter or remain in the United Kingdom—

54.2C.2.a

under paragraph 9.1 (Ukraine Family Scheme), 19.1 (Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme) or 27.1 (Ukraine Extension Scheme) of Appendix Ukraine
Scheme of the immigration rules, or

54.2C.2.b

outside the immigration rules, where the person—

54.2C.2.b.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

54.2C.2.b.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022.

#### Amendment to Schedule 4

55

In Schedule 4, in Table 3, at the appropriate place insert the following table
entry—

“protected Ukrainian national” Schedule 2, paragraph 2C(2)

Jeremy Miles Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the Welsh
Ministers 5 July 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations amend: a the Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations
2007 (see Part 2 of the Regulations), b the Education (European University
Institute) (Wales) Regulations 2014 (see Part 3 of the Regulations), c the
Higher Education (Qualifying Courses, Qualifying Persons and Supplementary
Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015 (see Part 4 of the Regulations), d the
Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2017 (see Part 5 of the
Regulations), e the Education (Student Support) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (see
Part 6 of the Regulations), f the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree
Loans) (Wales) Regulations 2018 (see Part 7 of the Regulations), and g the
Education (Student Support) (Postgraduate Master’s Degrees) (Wales)
Regulations 2019 (see Part 8 of the Regulations).

The amendments made by these Regulations principally relate to Ukrainian
nationals and their family members granted leave to enter or remain in the
United Kingdom by virtue of the Ukraine Family Scheme, the Homes for Ukraine
Sponsorship Scheme, the Ukraine Extension Scheme or who have leave outside the
immigration rules in connection with the Russian invasion of Ukraine
(“protected Ukrainian nationals”).

The amendments made in Part 2 of the Regulations provide for protected
Ukrainian nationals to be treated as home students for the purpose of the
Education (Fees and Awards) (Wales) Regulations 2007.

Part 4 of the Regulations amends the Higher Education (Qualifying Courses,
Qualifying Persons and Supplementary Provision) (Wales) Regulations 2015 to
provide for the tuition fee limit to apply to protected Ukrainian nationals.

Part 3 and Parts 5 to 8 amend the student support Regulations specified by
making protected Ukrainian nationals eligible for student support, subject to
them meeting all other requirements.

Parts 5 and 6 also make amendments to the student support Regulations to
remove the existing restriction preventing distance learning students from
qualifying for grants for dependants.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a result, a
regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely costs and
benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained from the
Higher Education Division, Welsh Government, Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

