Title: The A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47 between Blofield and North Burlingham in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/738

## The A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   22nd June 2022

  Coming into force   13th July 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.     The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .     The
single appointed person, having considered the representations made and not
withdrawn and the application together with the accompanying documents, in
accordance with section 83 of the 2008 Act has submitted a report and
recommendation to the Secretary of State.     The Secretary of State, having
considered the representations made and not withdrawn, and the report and
recommendation of the single appointed person, has decided to make an Order
granting development consent for the development described in the application
with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State do not make
any substantial changes to the proposals comprised in the application.
The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114 ,
115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 15, 17, 19 to
23, 26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1 of Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act, makes the
following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development
Consent Order 2022 and comes into force on 13th July 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

    “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;         “ the 1965
Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;         “ the 1980 Act ” means
the Highways Act 1980 ;         “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;         “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road
Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;         “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 ;         “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and
Street Works Act 1991 ;         “ the 2004 Act ” means the Traffic Management
Act 2004 ;         “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;         “
address ” includes any number or address for the purposes of electronic
transmission;         “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the
1991 Act;         “ authorised development ” means the development and
associated development described in Schedule 1 (authorised development) and
any other development authorised by this Order,         “ book of reference ”
means the document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the book of reference for the purposes of this Order;         “ bridleway ”
has the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;         “ building ” includes any
structure or erection or any part of a building, structure or erection;
“ carriageway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provision
as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act;         “ classification of roads plans
” means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State
as the classification of roads plans for the purposes of this Order;         “
commence ” means beginning to carry out any material operation (as defined in
section 56(4)  of the 1990 Act) forming part of the authorised development
other than operations consisting of archaeological investigations and
mitigation works, ecological surveys and pre-construction ecological
mitigation, investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground
conditions and levels, remedial work in respect of any contamination or other
adverse ground conditions, erection of any temporary means of enclosure,
receipt and erection of construction plant, equipment, welfare facilities and
temporary buildings and the temporary display of site notices or
advertisements, and “ commencement ” is to be construed accordingly;         “
cycle track ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1) (further provisions as
to interpretation)  of the 1980 Act and for the purposes of this Order
includes parts of a cycle track and a right of way on foot;         “de-
trunking plans” mean the documents of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the de-trunking plans for the purposes of this Order;
“ electronic transmission ” means a communication transmitted—       by means
of an electronic communications network; or       by other means but while in
electronic form,       and in this definition “ electronic communications
network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1) (meaning of electronic
communications networks and services)  of the Communications Act 2003;
“ engineering drawings and sections ” means the documents of that description
certified as the engineering drawings and sections by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order;         “ environmental statement ” means the
document of that description certified by the Secretary of State as the
environmental statement for the purposes of the Order;         “ flood risk
assessment ” means the document of that description certified by the Secretary
of State as the flood risk assessment for the purposes of this Order;
“ footpath ” and “ footway ” have the same meaning as in section 329(1) the
1980 Act;         “ general arrangement plans ” means the documents of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the general arrangement
plans for the purposes of this Order;         “ hedgerow plan ” means the
document of that description certified as the hedgerow plan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order;         “ highway ” has the same
meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;         “ highway authority ”
means the undertaker;         “ land plans ” means the documents of that
description certified as the land plans by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of this Order;         “ limits of deviation ” means the limits of
deviation referred to in article 8 (limits of deviation);         “ local
highway authority ” means Norfolk County Council;         “ maintain ” in
relation to the authorised development includes to inspect, repair, adjust,
alter, remove replace or reconstruct, provided such works do not give rise to
any materially new or materially different effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement, and any derivative of “ maintain ” is
to be construed accordingly;         “ Order land ” means the land shown
coloured pink, the land shown coloured blue and the land shown coloured green
on the land plans, and which is described in the book of reference;         “
Order limits ” means the limits of land to be acquired permanently or used
temporarily as shown on the land plans, and the limits of land within which
the authorised development, as shown on the works plans, may be carried out;
“ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7
(interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;         “ relevant
highway authority ” means the local highway authority for the land in
question;         “ relevant planning authority ” means Broadland District
Council;         “ rights of way and access plans ” means the documents of
that description certified as the rights of way and access plans by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;         “ statutory
undertaker ” means any statutory undertaker for the purposes of section 127(8)
(statutory undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act;         “ street ” means a
street within the meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and
undertakers) of the 1991 Act, together with land on the verge of a street or
between two carriageways, and includes part of a street,         “ street
authority ”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the
1991 Act;         “traffic authority” had the same meaning as in section 121A
(traffic authorities)  of the 1984 Act;         “ traffic regulation plans ”
means the documents of that description certified as the traffic regulation
plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;         “
tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;         “ trunk road
” means a highway which is a trunk road by virtue of—       section 10
(general provision as to trunk roads)  or section 19(1) (certain special roads
and other highways to become trunk roads)  of the 1980 Act;       an order
made or direction given under section 10 of that Act; or       an order
granting development consent; or       any other enactment;             “
undertaker ” means National Highways Limited (company number 09346363) whose
registered office is at Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey,
GU1 4LZ; and         “ works plans ” means the documents of that description
certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

2.7

The expression “includes” may be construed without limitation.

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 34 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and 35 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order do not apply in relation
to the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised project.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

4

4.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

4.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72(1)
(interpretation)  of the Land Drainage Act 1991.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

5

5.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out within the Order limits.

5.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

6

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Planning permission

7

If planning permission is granted under the powers conferred by the 1990 Act
for development any part of which is within the Order limits following the
coming into force of this Order that is—

7.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

7.b

required to complete or enable the use or operation of any part of the
authorised development,

the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of the
planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this Order.

#### Limits of deviation

8

8.1

In constructing Work Numbers, 1, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 14, 15, 17, 28, 29, 32, 34,
35 36 and 40 the undertaker may—

8.1.a

deviate laterally from the centrelines shown on the works plans to the extent
that the situation of the centreline is varied by up to a maximum of 3 metres
either side of the centreline of that work as shown on the works plans;

8.1.b

deviate by up to 3 metres from the points of commencement and termination; and

8.1.c

deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the
engineering drawings and sections, to a maximum of 1 metre upwards or 1 metre
downwards,

except that the maximum limits of vertical deviation do not apply where it is
demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction and
the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the local highway authority, certifies accordingly that a
deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially new
or materially different environmental effects from those reported in the
environmental statement.

8.2

In constructing or maintaining any other work comprised in the authorised
development the undertaker must construct any such work within the limits of
deviation or extents of work shown on the works plans for the relevant work.

#### Benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to article 10 (consent to transfer benefit of Order) and paragraph
(2), the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have
effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

9.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted
by this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land,
statutory undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised
development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

10

10.1

The undertaker may with the written consent of the Secretary of State—

10.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee;

10.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

10.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph  (1)  references
in this Order to the undertaker include references to the transferee or the
lessee.

10.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (1)  is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

10.4

The consent of the Secretary of State is not required under this article,
where the transfer or grant is made to—

10.4.a

Cadent Gas Limited (company number 10080864), whose registered office is at
Pilot Way, Ansty, Coventry, CV7 9JU (or a related subsidiary company) for the
purposes of undertaking Work No. 5;

10.4.b

Anglian Water Services Limited (company number 2366656), whose registered
office is at Lancaster House Lancaster Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon,
Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom, PE29 6XU (or a related subsidiary company) for
the purposes of undertaking Work No. 8 and 44; and

10.4.c

Eastern Power Networks Plc (company number 2366906), whose registered office
is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London, SE1 6NP (or a
related subsidiary company) for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 3, 19,
20, 24 and 42.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the local highway authority,
might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64
(dual carriageways and roundabouts  of the 1980 Act or section 184 (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges)  of that Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph  (1)
, references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply to any works executed
under the powers conferred by this Order—

11.3.a

section 56 (power to give directions as to timing of street works) ;

11.3.b

section 56A (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus) ;

11.3.c

section 58 (restriction on works following substantial road works) ;

11.3.d

section 58A (restriction on works following substantial street works) ;

11.3.e

section 73A (power to require undertaker to re-surface street) ;

11.3.f

section 73B (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing) ;

11.3.g

section 73C (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing) ;

11.3.h

section 78A (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker) ; and

11.3.i

Schedule 3A (restriction on works following substantial street works) .

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a
temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 16
(temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of use of
streets) whether or not the stopping up, alteration or diversion constitutes
street works within the meaning of that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act referred to in paragraph (4) are—

11.5.a

section 54(advance notice of certain works) , subject to paragraph (6);

11.5.b

section 55(notice of starting date of works) , subject to paragraph (6);

11.5.c

section 57(notice of emergency works) ;

11.5.d

section 59 (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works) ;

11.5.e

section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate) ;

11.5.f

section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority) ;

11.5.g

section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street) ;

11.5.h

section 75 (inspection fees);

11.5.i

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

11.5.j

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route).

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article 12 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act, and the undertaker is not by reason of any duty under that
article to maintain a street to be taken to be the street authority in
relation to that street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.b

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respects which the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road) to be constructed under this Order must
be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority in
whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
local highway authority, the highway must be maintained by and at the expense
of the local highway authority from its completion.

12.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road) is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
must be maintained by and at the expense of the local highway authority from
its completion.

12.3

Where a footpath, cycle track or bridleway is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
must be maintained by and at the expense of the local highway authority from
its completion.

12.4

Where a street which is not, and is not intended to be, a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period
of 12 months from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

12.5

Where a highway is de-trunked under this Order—

12.5.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

12.5.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to and in connection with that de-trunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, be maintained by and at
the expense of the local highway authority from the date of de-trunking.

12.6

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road) over a trunk road, the highway surface (being those
elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the local highway authority, and the remainder of
the bridge, including the waterproofing membrane, and structure below,
parapets and any system of lighting must be maintained by and at the expense
of the undertaker.

12.7

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

12.8

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (7), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.8.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

12.8.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

12.8.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

12.8.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

12.8.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and the competent
person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

13

13.1

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 1 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 (classification of roads etc.) and identified on the classification
of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to become trunk
roads as if they had become so by virtue of an order under section 10(2)
(general provision as to trunk roads)  of the 1980 Act specifying that date as
the date on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.2

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 2 (classified B
roads) and Part 2A (classified C roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the
classification of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to
become classified roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which
refers to highways classified as classified roads as if such classification
had been made under section 12(3) (general provision as to principal and
classified roads) of the 1980 Act.

13.3

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 3 (unclassified
roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the classification of roads plans are
completed and open for traffic, they are to become unclassified roads for the
purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to unclassified roads.

13.4

On and after the date on which the roads specified in Part 4 (speed limits) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the traffic regulation plans are open for
traffic, no person is to drive any motor vehicle at a speed exceeding the
limit in miles per hour specified in column (3) of that Part along the lengths
of road identified in the corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.5

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the Order specified in column (3)
of Part 5 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation orders)
of Schedule 3 is to be varied or revoked as specified in the corresponding row
of column (4) of that Part in respect of the lengths of roads specified in the
corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.6

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant planning authority, the
footpaths, cycle tracks, footways and bridleways set out in column (2) of Part
6 (footpaths, cycle tracks, footways and bridleways) of Schedule 3 and
identified on the rights of way and access plans are to be constructed by the
undertaker in the specified locations and open for use from the date on which
the authorised development is open for traffic.

13.7

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the roads described in Part 7
(roads to be de-trunked) of Schedule 3 and identified on the de-trunking plans
are to cease to be trunk roads as if they had ceased to be trunk roads by
virtue of an order made under section 10(2) of the 1980 Act specifying that
date as the date on which they were to cease to be trunk roads.

13.8

The application of paragraphs  (1)  to  (7)  may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing
and maintaining the authorised development, alter the layout of any street
within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a junction with
such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of this paragraph, the
undertaker may—

14.1.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street;

14.1.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footway, cycle track
or verge;

14.1.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

14.1.d

make and maintain passing places.

14.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

14.3

The powers conferred by paragraph  (1) —

14.3.a

are exercisable on the giving of not less than 42 days’ notice to the street
authority; and

14.3.b

are not to be exercised without the consent of the street authority where that
authority is a public authority.

14.4

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (3) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

14.5

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (4) apply to that application.

14.6

Paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Street works

15

15.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

15.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

15.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street;

15.1.c

place and keep apparatus in or under the street;

15.1.d

maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and

15.1.e

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
sub-paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d).

15.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right for the purposes
of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

#### Temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of use of streets

16

16.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or restrict
the use of any street and may for any reasonable time—

16.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

16.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

16.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may use any
street temporarily prohibited or restricted under the powers conferred by this
article, and which is within the Order limits, as a temporary working site.

16.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition of the use of or restriction of the use of a street under this
article if there would otherwise be no such access.

16.4

The undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert, prohibit the use of or
restrict the use of any street for which it is not the street authority
without the consent of the street authority, which may attach reasonable
conditions to any consent but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

16.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

16.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

16.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

17

17.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private
means of access and provision of new highways and private means of access) and
identified on the rights of way and access plans to the extent specified and
described in column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule.

17.2

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
2 or Part 3 of Schedule 4 (being a highway or private means of access to be
stopped up for which a substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly
stopped up under this article unless—

17.2.a

the new highway or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (4) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

17.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the highway or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new highway or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a).

17.3

No private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part 4 of
Schedule 4 (being a private means of access to be stopped up for which no
substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly stopped up under this
article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is satisfied in
relation to all the land which abuts on either side of the street or private
means of access to be stopped up.

17.4

The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that—

17.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land;

17.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned;

17.4.c

there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

17.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

17.5

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, alter the private means of access specified in column (1) of Part
5 of Schedule 4 as specified in column (2) of that Part.

17.6

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

17.6.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

17.6.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

17.7

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

17.8

This article is subject to article 37 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

18

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

19

19.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after such day as the undertaker
may determine, no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part
of the lengths of road described in column (2) of Part 8 (traffic regulation
measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads,
etc.) and identified on the traffic regulation plans where it is identified in
the corresponding row of column (3) of that Part that such lengths of road are
to become a clearway, except upon the direction of, or with the permission or,
a uniformed constable or uniformed traffic officer.

19.2

Nothing in paragraph  (1)  applies—

19.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

19.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

19.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

19.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 3A (the electronic
communications code)  to the Communications Act 2003; or

19.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

19.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

19.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

19.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

19.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

19.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Services (Universal Postal Service)
Order 2012 ; or

19.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

19.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

19.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

19.2.c.iii

prevented from proceedings by circumstances outside the person’s control.

19.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph  (1)  for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

19.4

Paragraphs  (1) , (2) and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

19.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the 2004 Act.

#### Traffic regulation

20

20.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

20.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

20.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

20.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

20.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

20.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

20.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

20.3

The power conferred by   paragraph (2)   may be exercised at any time prior to
the expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for
public use but subject to   paragraph (2)   any prohibition, restriction or
other provision made under   paragraph (2)   may have effect both before and
after the expiry of that period.

20.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of   paragraph (2) .

20.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by   paragraph (2)
unless the undertaker has—

20.5.a

given not less than—

20.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

20.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention so to do in the case of a
prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

20.5.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of its receipt
of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i).

20.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (2) —

20.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

20.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

20.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces)  of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

20.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the 2004 Act.

20.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by   paragraph (2)   within a period of 24
months from the opening of the authorised development.

20.8

Before exercising the powers of   paragraph (2)   the undertaker must consult
such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take into
consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any such person.

20.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

20.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

20.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under   paragraph (2)   the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

20.12

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of   paragraph (11)   apply to that application.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

21

21.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any public sewer or
drain for the drainage of water in connection with the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that purpose may lay
down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order limits,
make openings into, and connections with, the drain.

21.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or use of a public sewer
or drain by the undertaker under paragraph  (1)  is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)  of
the Water Industry Act 1991.

21.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any public sewer or drain
except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such consent may
be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may reasonably
impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

21.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

21.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

21.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

21.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a public sewer or drain under this article is
as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid substance, oil
or matter in suspension.

21.6

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12 (requirement for an environmental permit)  of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016.

21.7

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

21.8

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (7) apply to that application.

21.9

In this article—

21.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority, a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

21.9.b

other expressions used both in this article and in the Water Resources Act
1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

22

22.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

22.2

Protective works may be carried out—

22.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

22.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

22.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may (subject to paragraph (5)) enter and survey any
building falling within paragraph  (1)  and any land within its curtilage.

22.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works to a building under this
article the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

22.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

22.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it.

22.5

Before exercising—

22.5.a

a right under paragraph  (1)  to carry out protective works to a building;

22.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

22.5.c

a right under paragraph  (4) (a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

22.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

22.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article  49  (arbitration).

22.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

22.8

Where—

22.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

22.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

22.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance)  of the 2008 Act.

22.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (8) or  (9)  is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

22.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

22.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

23

23.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

23.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

23.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such
positions on the land as the undertaker sees fit to investigate the nature of
the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

23.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land; and

23.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes.

23.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land indicating the nature of the survey or
investigation that the undertaker intends to carry out.

23.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

23.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

23.3.b

may take into the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

23.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

23.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority or the local highway authority as the case may be; or

23.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority.

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

23.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

23.6

If either the highway authority, the local highway authority or a street
authority which receives an application for consent fails to notify the
undertaker of its decision within 28 days of receiving the application for
consent—

23.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of the highway authority or the local
highway authority; or

23.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

23.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

24.2

This article is subject to paragraph  (2)  of article 27 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and paragraph
(8) of article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

25

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that—

25.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

25.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

25.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

26

26.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

26.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 (compulsory purchase under
Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965 Act as modified by article 30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

26.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 31 (application of the 1981 Act).

26.2

The authority conferred by article 34 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  (1) , except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

27

27.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land, as
may be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as
acquiring rights already in existence.

27.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants,
as may be required for the purposes specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

27.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule 6
(modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights and imposition of restrictive covenants)), where the undertaker
acquires a right over land or the benefit of a restrictive covenant affecting
land under paragraph (1) or (2), the undertaker is not required to acquire a
greater interest in that land.

27.4

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Extinguishment of public rights of way

28

28.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the public rights of way identified in columns (1)
to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and
private means of access & provision of new highways and private means of
access) and identified on the rights of way and access plans are to be
extinguished on the date of the expiry of the notice given under paragraph
(2) .

28.2

Prior to the extinguishment of each of the public rights of way identified in
columns (1) to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and shown on the rights of
way and access plans, the undertaker must—

28.2.a

erect a site notice at each end of the rights of way to be extinguished no
less than 28 days prior to the extinguishment of that right of way; and

28.2.b

where the public right of way is identified in Part 2 of that Schedule,
provide a new highway or a temporary alternative route in accordance with
article  17(2)  (permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and
private means of access).

#### Private rights over land

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

29.1.a

on the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker whether compulsorily
or by agreement; or

29.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (powers
of entry)  of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or the burden
of the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

from the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement;
or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker which, being within the limits of land which are within the
Order limits are extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by
this Order which interferes with or breaches those rights.

29.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

29.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance)  of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

29.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section
138(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory
undertakers etc.)  of the 2008 Act or article 36 (statutory undertakers)
applies.

29.7

Paragraphs  (1)  to (4) have effect subject to—

29.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the right
or the imposition of the restrictive covenant over or affecting the land;

29.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

29.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

29.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

29.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.8

If any such agreement is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

29.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

29.10

From such date as the undertaker may determine, which may not be later than
the date on which the private means of access listed in column 2 of Part 3 of
Schedule 4 is stopped up, the owners and occupiers, their agents, contractors
and any person with the permission of the owner or occupier of the land to be
accessed by the private means of access to be substituted or provided on the
Order land and listed in column 4 of Part 3 of Schedule 4, will be entitled to
take access to their land at all times with or without vehicles across or
along the private means of access to be substituted or provided on the Order
land listed in column 4 of Part 3 of Schedule 4.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

30

30.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125 (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions)  of the 2008 Act, is modified as
follows—

30.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)  for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent)  of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsory) of the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order
2022” .

30.3

In section 11A (powers of entry: further notice of entry) —

30.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

30.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

30.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 26 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsory) of the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham
Development Consent Order 2022” .

30.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

30.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

30.5.a.2

But see article 32 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) on the A47
Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes
the acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

; and

30.5.b

after paragraph 29 insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

30.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 22 (protective work to buildings), 34
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 35
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the A47
Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

31

31.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

31.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph  (1) , has effect with the following
modifications.

31.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection (2) substitute—

31.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

31.4

In section 5(2) (earliest date for execution of declaration) , omit the words
from “, and this subsection” to the end.

31.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration) .

31.6

In section 5B(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)  for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent
Order 2022” .

31.7

In section (6) (notices after execution of declaration) , in subsection
(1)(b), for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition
of Land Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of
compulsory acquisition)  of the Planning Act 2008” .

31.8

In section 7 (constructive notice to treat) , in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

31.9

In Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) , omit paragraph 1(2).

31.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125  (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 30
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

32

32.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1)  of
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

32.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1) , the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

32.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph  (1)  in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

32.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 30 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

32.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981; and

32.3.c

Section 153(4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test)  of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

32.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

33

33.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

33.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph  (1)  in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

33.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

33.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

33.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

33.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph  (1)  is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

33.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

34

34.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 26(2) (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily)—

34.1.a

enter on and take possession of—

34.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule; and

34.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act,

34.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land,

34.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

34.1.d

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of Schedule 7, or any other mitigation works in connection with the authorised
development.

34.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph  (1) (a)(ii).

34.3

Notwithstanding article 26(2), the undertaker must not, without the agreement
of the owners of the land, remain in possession of any land under this
article—

34.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph  (1) (a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 7 (land of which temporary possession may be taken); or

34.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph  (1) (a)(ii), after the end
of the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work
for which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker
has, by the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of
the 1965 Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation
to that land.

34.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

34.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

34.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

34.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

34.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus; or

34.4.e

remove or reposition any apparatus installed for or belonging to statutory
undertakers or necessary mitigation works.

34.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

34.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

34.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

34.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph  (1) (a)(i) except that the undertaker is not to be precluded
from acquiring any part of the subsoil or airspace over (or rights in the
subsoil or airspace over) that land under article 32 (acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only).

34.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority)  of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

34.11

Paragraph  (1) (a)(ii) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article  24  (compulsory acquisition of land) or article 27 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

35

35.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

35.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

35.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

35.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

35.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

35.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

35.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

35.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and must explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

35.4

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

35.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

35.6

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

35.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

35.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (6).

35.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

35.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land under to this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

35.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development, means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

36

36.1

Subject to the provisions of article 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective provisions) and
paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

36.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

36.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

36.2

Paragraph  (1) (b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

36.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

36.2.b

article 37 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

37

37.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

37.2

Where a street is altered, diverted, prohibited or restricted under   article
16 (temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of use of
streets)   any statutory utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, over, along
or across the street may, and if reasonably requested to do so by the
undertaker must—

37.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

37.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

37.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

37.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

37.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

37.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

37.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

37.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

37.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

37.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

37.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

37.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

37.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

37.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

37.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

37.8

In this article—

“ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and “ statutory utility ” means a statutory undertaker for the
purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications provider as defined in
section 151(1) (interpretation of chapter 1)  of the Communications Act 2003.

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

38

38.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 36 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

38.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed under article 36, any person who is—

38.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

38.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

38.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 37
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

38.4

In this paragraph—

    “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) (interpretation of chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003; and
“ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage
undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub, within or overhanging land
within the Order limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it
to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1)  or  (4) , the
undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

39.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2)—

39.4.a

remove any hedgerow described in Schedule 8 (removal of hedgerows); and

39.4.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph  (1) , and with the consent
of the local authority in whose area the hedgerow is located, remove any
hedgerow within the Order limits that is required to be removed.

39.5

The grant of a consent by a local authority under paragraph  (4)(b)  must not
be unreasonably withheld.

39.6

If a local authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (4)(b)  the
local authority is deemed to have granted consent.

39.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

39.8

In this article “ hedgerow ” includes a hedgerow to which the Hedgerow
Regulations 1997  apply and includes important hedgerows.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

40

40.1

This article applies to—

40.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

40.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

40.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

40.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

40.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

40.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

40.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

41

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

42

42.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance)  of the Environmental Protection Act
1990 in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2)of that Act if—

42.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

42.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
; or

42.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

42.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

42.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990)  of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### No double recovery

43

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract, or any rule of law, or
under two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Disregard of certain improvements etc.

44

44.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

44.1.a

any interest in land; or

44.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

44.2

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works constructed or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set off for enhancement in value of retained land

45

45.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

45.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

45.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

45.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

45.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  as if this
Order were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Protection of interests

46

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

47

47.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents, etc. to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification
that they are true copies of those plans and documents.

47.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 is required to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph  (1) .

47.3

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

48

48.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

48.1.a

by post;

48.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

48.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

48.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

48.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post)  of the
Interpretation Act 1978 as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address, and otherwise—

48.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

48.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

48.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

48.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

48.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

48.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

48.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

48.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

48.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

48.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

48.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

48.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

48.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

48.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

48.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

48.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

48.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

49

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

#### Crown Rights

50

50.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to use, enter upon or in any manner
interfere with any land or rights of any description—

50.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

50.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

50.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

50.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order
for the compulsory purchase of any interest in any Crown land (as defined in
the 2008 Act) for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of the
Crown.

50.3

A consent under paragraph  (1)  may be given unconditionally or subject to
terms and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is
sent electronically.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport     Natasha
Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department for
Transport   22nd June 2022

## SCHEDULES

AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

The authorised development is a nationally significant infrastructure project
as defined in sections 14 (nationally significant infrastructure projects:
general)  and 22 (highways)  of the 2008 Act and associated development as
defined in section 115(2) (development for which development consent may be
granted)  of the 2008 Act, comprising—

##### In the administrative areas of Norfolk County Council and Broadland District Council

Work No. 1  – alteration of the A47 shown on sheet 1-8 of the works plans, of
4570 metres in length, from a point 361 metres west of the junction of the
existing A47 with Yarmouth Road over the existing A47 to a point 203 metres
east of the junction of existing A47 with the unclassified road known as the
Windle and including a retaining wall west of Yarmouth Road, Blofield, a lay-
by, bunds and noise barriers;

Work No. 2  – installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications code operators of 987 metres, from a point 302
metres west of the existing A47 and Yarmouth Road, to a point 413 metres east
of High Noon Lane junction, shown on sheet numbers 1 and 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 3  – diversion underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution
network cables, crossing Work No. 1, west of the junction of the existing A47
with Yarmouth Road and east of Blofield, shown on sheet number 1 of the works
plans;

Work No. 4  – improvements to Yarmouth Road at its junction with the A47,
south of Work No. 1, to the east of Blofield, shown on sheet number 1 of the
works plans;

Work No. 5  – diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main of 3754 metres in
length between a point 62 metres south of the junction of the existing A47
with Yarmouth Road, east of Blofield and a point 250 metres southwest of the
junction of the existing A47 with B1140 White House Lane, west of Acle Hall,
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers shown on sheets numbers 1 to 7 of the
works plans;

Work No. 6  – new car park (of approximately 25 spaces) for Blofield
Allotments including access to Work No. 7, together with a field access to
Work No. 7, south of Work No. 7 and shown on sheet number 1 of the works
plans;

Work No. 7  – new highway between the junction of the A47 with Yarmouth Road,
Blofield, to a point 384 metres east of that junction, south of Work No. 1 and
shown on sheet numbers 1 and 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 8  – installation of potable water pipes of 446 metres in length,
from a point east of Sparrow Hall, Blofield, south to a point to the east of
the highway of Waterlow, shown on sheet number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 9  – improvements to Yarmouth Road of 419 metres in length and
creation of a junction between High Noon Lane and Yarmouth Road, east of
Blofield and north of Work No. 1, shown on sheet number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 10  – improvements to Waterlow including new junction with Work No.
7, 307 metres east of Yarmouth Road, Blofield, and south of Work No. 7, shown
on sheet number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 11  –– new highway, including bridge approaches to form the southern
approach to the new Blofield Overbridge (Work No. 15), east of Blofield, and
shown on sheet number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 12  – installation of ducts, cables, sewers and apparatus for
utilities and electronic code communications operators of 570 metres in
length, between Yarmouth Road and Waterlow, to the east of Blofield, shown on
sheet numbers 1 and 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 13  – infiltration basin, soakaways, pond and associated drainage,
drivable swale and maintenance access track, south of Work No 11 and east of
Waterlow, shown on sheet number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 14  – new highway from a junction with Work No. 15, east for 197
metres to a point 943 metres west of Lingwood Road and shown on sheet number 2
of the works plans;

Work No. 14A  – access track and cycle track commencing at the termination of
Work No. 14. east for 1270 metres to a junction with Footpath FP3, at a point
327 metres east of Lingwood Road and shown on sheet numbers 2, 3 and 4 of the
works plans;

Work No. 14B  – access track and cycle track, from a junction with Work No.
14A east for 92 metres to a point 328 metres east of Lingwood Road and shown
on sheet number 4 of the works plans;

Work No. 15  – bridge over Work No. 1 located 601 metres east of the existing
junction of the A47 with Yarmouth Road, (Blofield Overbridge), together with
approaches and shown on sheet no. 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 16  – construction compound east of Blofield Overbridge (Work No.15)
and south of work Nos. 1,4 and 14A, shown on sheet numbers 2 and 3 of the
works plans;

Work No. 17  – new highway and approach to form the northern approach to
Blofield Overbridge (Work No. 15), north of Work No. 1 and shown on sheet
number 2 of the works plans;

Work No. 17A  – works to support the reclassification of the existing A47 and
provision of cycle track, north of Work No. 1 and shown on sheet numbers 2, 3
and 4 of the works plans;

Work No. 18  – drainage and soakaway to the east of the Blofield Overbridge
(Work No. 15) and north of Work No. 1 shown on sheet numbers 2 and 3 of the
works plans;

Work No. 19  – diversion underground of electricity distribution network
cables (33kV) of 397 metres, crossing Work No. 1, east of Blofield and shown
on sheet no. 3 of the works plans;

Work No. 20  – diversion underground of electricity distribution network
cables (11kV) of 126 metres, crossing Work No. 1, north of Poplar Farm, shown
on sheet no. 3 of the works plans;

Work No. 21  – turning head on Lingwood Road south of Work No. 1, west of
North Burlingham and shown on sheet no. 4 of the works plans;

Work No. 22  – installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications code operators and potable water pipes of 103 metres
in length, between the existing A47 and Lingwood Road, to the west of North
Burlingham, shown on sheet   numbers 3 and 4   of the works plans;

Work No. 23  – cycle track, access track, soakaway, drivable swale and
diversion of existing permissive equestrian and walking route south of Work
No. 1, west of North Burlingham, and shown on sheet numbers 4 and 5 of the
works plans;

Work No. 24  – diversion underground of electricity distribution network cable
of 292 metres (11kV) south of the existing A47, south of North Burlingham,
shown on sheet numbers 4 and 5 of the works plans;

Work No. 25  – turning head on Lingwood Lane, south of Work No. 1, south of
North Burlingham and shown on sheet number 5 of the works plans;

Work No. 26  – temporary compound west of Lingwood Lane and south of Work No.
1, south of North Burlingham and shown on sheet number 5 of the works plans;

Work No. 26A  - temporary compound east of Lingwood Lane, south of Work No. 1,
south of North Burlingham and shown on sheet numbers 5 and 6 of the works
plans;

Work No. 26B  – temporary diversion of permissive equestrian and walking route
west of Lingwood Lane, south of Work No. 1, south of North Burlingham and
shown on sheet numbers 4 and 5 of the works plans;

Work No. 26C  – temporary haul road to connect Work No. 26A to White House
Lane, east of North Burlingham, and shown on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the
works plans;

Work No. 27  – cycle track between Lingwood Lane and Work No. 35, south of
Work No. 1 and shown on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 28  – works to the existing A47 east of North Burlingham, to connect
to the new proposed junction with the B1140 classified road to the north of
Work No. 1 shown on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 28A  – junction to connect the existing A47 to Main Road, North
Burlingham and including installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications code operators, to the north of Work
No. 1 shown on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 29  – realignment of B1140 South Walsham Road, North Burlingham,
north of Work No. 1 and shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 30  – soakaway and access track south of Work No. 28, North
Burlingham, shown on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 31  – installation of ducts, potable water pipes, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications code operators of 925
metres in length north of the existing A47 and east of North Burlingham, shown
on sheet numbers 5, 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 32  – westbound compact connector road from Work No. 1 to a junction
with Work No. 35, east of North Burlingham, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of
the works plans;

Work No. 33  – soakaway and access track north of Work No. 1, east of North
Burlingham, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 34  – overbridge (B1140 Overbridge), and bridge approaches, to carry
the improved B1140 over Work No. 1, 88 metres west of the existing South
Walsham Road junction with A47 shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works
plans;

Work No. 35  – southern approach to B1140 Overbridge, together with
improvements to the highway of Coxhill Road and provision of junction with
Acle Road, on the southern side of Work No. 1, and shown on sheet numbers 6
and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 36  – northern approach to B1140 Overbridge, on the northern side of
Work No. 1 east of North Burlingham and associated tying in works to South
Walsham Road and shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 37  – temporary compound east of South Walsham Road and north of Work
No. 1, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 38  – soakaways and associated access for drainage, to the north of
Work No. 1 and west of B1140 South Walsham Road, shown on sheet numbers 6 and
7 of the works plans;

Work No. 39  –– compound, soakaways and associated access from White House
Lane, east of Acle Road and south of Work No.1, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7
of the works plans;

Work No. 40  – realignment of White House Lane south of Work No.1, including
turning head and shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 41  – soakaway and associated access west of Work No. 35 and shown on
sheet 6 and 7 of the works plans;

Work No. 42  – diversion underground of overhead electricity distribution
network cables (33kV) of 260 metres east of North Burlingham and shown on
sheet   number 6   of the works plans;

Work No. 43  – diversion of utility apparatus from the layby to the north of
the existing A47 and to the west of the junction of the A47 with The Windle
and shown on sheet numbers 6, 7 and 8 of the works plans; and

Work No. 44  – diversion of potable water pipes to the south of the A47, to
the west of the junction of the A47 with The Windle and shown on sheet numbers
6, 7 and 8 of the works plans.

In connection with the construction of any of those works mentioned above,
such ancillary development within the Order limits which does not give rise to
any materially new or materially different environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement consisting of— a alteration
to the layout of any street permanently or temporarily, including but not
limited to increasing or reducing the width of the carriageway of the street
by reducing or increasing the width of any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle
track or verge within the street; and altering the level of any such kerb,
footpath, footway, cycle track or verge; b works required for the
strengthening, improvement, maintenance or reconstruction of any street; c
ramps, means of access, non-motorised links, footpaths, cycle tracks and
crossing facilities; d embankments, aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations,
piling, retaining walls, barriers, parapets, drainage, cofferdams, ditches,
wing walls, highway lighting, fencing and culverts; e street works, including
breaking up or opening up a street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;
tunnelling or boring under a street; f works to place, alter, remove or
maintain street furniture or apparatus in a street, or apparatus in other
land, including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, ducts and
lights; g landscaping, noise bunds and barriers, works associated with the
provision of ecological mitigation and other works to mitigate any adverse
effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised
development; h works for the benefit or protection of land affected by the
authorised development; i site preparation works, site clearance (including
fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of existing structures and the
creation of alternative footpaths); earthworks (including soil stripping and
storage, site levelling); remediation of contamination and lay down areas; j
the felling of trees; k the establishment of construction compounds and
working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking, construction fencing,
perimeter enclosures, security fencing, construction-related buildings,
temporary worker accommodation facilities, welfare facilities, construction
lighting, haulage roads and other buildings, machinery, apparatus, works and
conveniences; l the provision of other works including pavement works, kerbing
and paved areas works, signing, signals, road markings works, traffic
management measures including temporary roads and such other works as are
associated with the construction of the authorised development; and m such
other works, working sites, storage areas and works of demolition, as may be
necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or for purposes ancillary to, the
construction of the authorised development which do not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects to those assessed
in the environmental statement.

  REQUIREMENTS

Articles 5 and 25

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

    “ completed ” means the relevant parts of the authorised development are
completed and fully open to traffic and completion is to be construed
accordingly;         “ contaminated land ” has the same meaning as that term
is given in section 78A (preliminary)  of the Environmental Protection Act
1990;         “ drainage strategy ” means the document certified as the
drainage strategy by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order
under article  47  (certification of documents, etc.);         “ DMRB ” means
the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges, which accommodates all current
standards, advice and other documents relating to the design, assessment and
operation of trunk roads and motorways, or any equivalent replacement to the
DMRB published;         “ EMP (First Iteration) ” means the first iteration of
the environmental management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB during
the preliminary design stage and certified as the EMP (First Iteration) by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order under article  47
(certification of documents, etc.);         “ EMP (Second Iteration) ” means
the second iteration of the environmental management plan produced in
accordance with the DMRB, which is to be a refined version of the EMP (First
Iteration) including more detailed versions of the outline plans contained or
listed within the EMP (First Iteration) or any other plans as required;
“ EMP (Third Iteration) ” means the third iteration of the environmental
management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB, which is a refined
version of the EMP (Second Iteration) and which relates to the operational and
maintenance phase of the authorised development;         “ European protected
species ” has the same meaning as in regulations 42 (European protected
species of animals) and 46 (European protected species of plants) of the
Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 ;         “ lead local
flood authority ” has the same meaning as in section 6 (other definitions)  of
the Flood and Water Management Act 2010;         “ the Manual of Contract
Documents for Highway Works ” means the document of that name published
electronically by or on behalf of the strategic highway authority for England
or any equivalent replacement published for that document;         “ the
masterplan ” means the document certified as the masterplan by the Secretary
of State for the purposes of this Order under article  47  (certification of
documents, etc.);         “ nationally protected species ” means any species
protected under the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 ;         “ the outline
landscape and ecology management plan ” means the outline landscape and
ecology management plan included at paragraph 7 of Annex B to the EMP (First
Iteration);         “ the outline traffic management plan ” means the document
certified as the outline traffic management plan by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order under article  47  (certification of documents,
etc.);         “ REAC ” means the Record of Environmental Actions and
Commitments forming table 3.1 of the EMP (First Iteration).

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the works plans
and engineering drawings and sections unless otherwise agreed in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the
relevant planning authority and the local highway authority on matters related
to their functions, provided that the Secretary of State is satisfied that any
amendments to the engineering drawings and sections showing departures from
the preliminary scheme design would not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects in comparison with those reported
in the environmental statement.

3.2

Except where paragraph  (3)  applies, where cycle tracks are shown on the
Rights of Way and Access Plans the authorised development must be designed so
that those cycle tracks are no less than 2.5 metres in width.

3.3

Where—

3.3.a

there are existing physical constraints which mean that a 2.5 metre wide cycle
track is not achievable; or

3.3.b

providing a cycle track 2.5 metres in width would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

at those locations the authorised development must be designed so that those
cycle tracks are no less than 2 metres in width for as short a length as is
reasonably possible.

3.4

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph  (1) , those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public.

###### Environmental Management Plan

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an EMP (Second
Iteration) for that part, substantially in accordance with the EMP (First
Iteration), has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning
authority, the Environment Agency, the local highway authority and the lead
local flood authority, to the extent that the content of the EMP (Second
Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their functions.

4.2

The EMP (Second Iteration) for a part must be written in accordance with
ISO14001 and so far as is relevant to that part of the authorised development,
must reflect the mitigation measures required by the REAC and set out in the
Environmental Statement and must include as many of the following plans and
strategies as are applicable to the part of the authorised development to
which it relates—

4.2.a

Biosecurity management plan;

4.2.b

Construction communications strategy;

4.2.c

Construction noise and dust management plan;

4.2.d

Materials management plan;

4.2.e

Landscape and ecology management plan;

4.2.f

Site waste management plan;

4.2.g

Soil management plan to include soil resource plan and soil handling strategy;

4.2.h

Traffic management plan; and

4.2.i

Water monitoring and management plan.

4.3

The relevant part of the authorised development must be constructed in
accordance with the EMP (Second Iteration).

4.4

On completion of construction of each part of the authorised development the
EMP (Third Iteration) relating to that part must be submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority, the Environment Agency, the relevant local highway
authority and the lead local flood authority, to the extent that the content
of the EMP (Third Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their functions.

4.5

The relevant part of the authorised development must be operated and
maintained in accordance with the EMP (Third Iteration).

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft landscaping works
and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with the relevant planning authority on matters
related to its functions.

5.2

The landscaping scheme must reflect the mitigation measures set out in the
REAC and must be based on the outline landscape and ecology management plan
and the masterplan.

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include details
of—

5.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

5.3.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and

5.3.f

measures for the replacement, in the first available planting season, of any
tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a period
of 5 years after the completion of the part of the authorised development to
which the relevant landscaping scheme relates, dies, becomes seriously
diseased or is seriously damaged.

5.4

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
or other recognised codes of good practice.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement, it must be reported as soon as
reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State, the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency, and the undertaker must complete a risk
assessment of the contamination in consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency.

6.2

Where the risk assessment prepared in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1)
determines that remediation of the contaminated land is necessary, a written
scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be taken to render the land
fit for its intended purpose and to prevent any impacts on controlled waters
must be submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority
on matters related to its function and the Environment Agency.

6.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until, for that part,
final preconstruction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by that part of the relevant works, or in
any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped or felled as part of the relevant
works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a protected species is shown to be present, or where there is a reasonable
likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works must cease until a scheme of
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult with Natural England on the scheme referred to in
sub-paragraph  (2)  prior to submission to the Secretary of State for
approval, except where a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding
where relevant and appropriate a licence relating to the species in question,
determines that the relevant works do not require a protected species licence.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after consultation by the undertaker with Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until, for that part,
written details of the surface water drainage system, reflecting the drainage
strategy and the mitigation measures set out in the REAC including means of
pollution control, have been submitted and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State following consultation by the undertaker with the
Environment Agency, the relevant planning authority and the lead local flood
authority, on matters related to their functions.

8.2

The surface water drainage system must be constructed in accordance with the
approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State
following consultation by the undertaker with the Environment Agency, the
relevant planning authority and the lead local flood authority, on matters
related to their functions, provided that the Secretary of State is satisfied
that any amendments to the approved details would not give rise to any
materially new or materially different environmental effects in comparison
with those reported in the environmental statement.

###### Archaeological remains

9

9.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until, for that part, a
written scheme of investigation of areas of archaeological interest,
reflecting the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC, has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority and the
Historic Buildings and Monuments Commission for England.

9.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the scheme
referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Traffic management

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction, alteration
or improvement of Work No. 1 is to commence until a traffic management plan
for that part, reflecting the outline traffic management plan, has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant highway authority on matters
related to its function.

10.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the traffic
management plan referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Fencing

11

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works maintained by or on behalf of
the undertaker except where any departures from that manual are agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State in connection with the authorised
development.

###### New Pond

12

12.1

No part of Work No. 13 is to commence until the siting, design, method of
construction and timetable for delivery of the new pond to be included within
Work No. 13 and specified in W8 of the REAC has been submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority.

12.2

The pond forming part of Work No. 13 must thereafter be carried out in
accordance with the approved details.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

13

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes approved under this
Schedule, the approved details or schemes are taken to include any amendments
that may subsequently be approved in accordance with the provisions of the
relevant requirement.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

14

14.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

14.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

14.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph  15  (further information); or

14.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

14.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

14.3

Where—

14.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

14.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ; and

14.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

15

15.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

15.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates.

15.3

In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such notification
within the 21 day business period mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) the Secretary
of State is deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application
and is not subsequently entitled to request further information without the
prior agreement of the undertaker.

15.4

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 14 (applications made under requirements) and in this
paragraph.

15.5

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays)  of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971.

###### Register of requirements

16

16.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

16.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

16.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

17

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

###### Details of consultation

18

With respect to any provision of this Schedule requiring details to be
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval following consultation by the
undertaker with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party
with not less than 28 days for any response to the consultation and the
details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval must be accompanied
by a summary report setting out the consultation undertaken by the undertaker
to inform the details submitted and the undertaker’s response to that
consultation.

  CLASSIFICATIONS OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 13 and 19

##### TRUNK ROADS

      (1)   Area   (2)   Length of road     The classification of roads plans
– sheets 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8 Blofield,   Lingwood and Burlingham, Beighton,
Acle.   The new A47 Trunk Road   A 4,570 metre length of new highway to be
classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road (including existing highway to be
improved), as identified in sub-paragraphs (a), (c), (d) and (f):       on the
eastbound carriageway commencing from point A, 362 metres east of the
centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to
point AM, a distance of 479 metres.       on the eastbound carriageway
commencing from point AM, 841 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation
Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to point AJ (sheet 6), a distance of
3,549 metres.       on the eastbound carriageway commencing from point AJ,
4,390 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in an
easterly direction to point B (sheet 8), a distance of 538 metres.       on
the westbound carriageway commencing from point C, 362 metres east of the
centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to
point AN, a distance of 485 metres.       on the westbound carriageway
commencing from point AN, 847 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation
Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to point AK (sheet 6), a distance of
3,548 metres.       on the westbound carriageway commencing from point AK,
4,395 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in an
easterly direction to point D (sheet 8), a distance of 441 metres.       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 1 Blofield Yarmouth Road Junction
Westbound Merge (including existing highway to be improved) to be classified
as part of the A47 Trunk Road   From point E, 758 metres east of the
centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in a north-westerly direction to
point F, a distance of 159 metres.   Blofield Yarmouth Road Junction Westbound
Diverge (including existing highway to be improved) to be classified as part
of the A47 Trunk Road   From point E, 758 metres east of the centreline of the
Plantation Road Overbridge, in a north-easterly direction to point G (sheet
2), a distance of 162.5 metres.   The classification of roads plans – sheet 6
Lingwood and Burlingham New slip road to the new B1140 overbridge diverge to
be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road   From point M, 4,034 metres east
of the centreline of the Plantation Road overbridge, in a westerly and then
south-westerly direction to point K, a distance of 165 metres.   Lingwood and
Burlingham New slip road to the new B1140 overbridge to be classified as part
of the A47 Trunk Road   From point K, 3,978 metres east of the centreline of
the Plantation Road overbridge, in a southerly and then easterly direction to
point AG, a distance of 172 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham New slip road to
the new B1140 Overbridge Merge to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
From point K, 3,978 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road
overbridge, in a north-westerly and then westerly direction to point L (sheet
5), a distance of 311 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham South Walsham Road
junction eastbound diverge to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road
From point I, 4,013 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road
overbridge, in an easterly and then north-easterly direction to point H, a
distance of 158 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham, Beighton South Walsham Road
junction eastbound merge to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road   From
point H, 4,172 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road
overbridge, in a south-easterly and then easterly direction to point J, a
distance of 292 metres.

##### CLASSIFIED B ROADS

      (1)   Area   (2)   Length of road     The classification of roads plans
– sheet 6 Lingwood and Burlingham B1140 South Walsham Road   A 236 metre
length of new highway to be classified as part of the B1140 (including
existing highway to be improved), as identified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b):
from point AH, 270 metres north of its junction with the new A47 Trunk Road,
in a southerly direction to point AI, a distance of 205 metres.       from
point AI, 65 metres north of its junction with the new A47 Trunk Road, in a
southerly direction to point H, a distance of 31 metres.       Lingwood and
Burlingham New B1140 overbridge and approach roads   A 588 metre length of new
highway to be classified as part of the B1140 (including existing highway to
be improved), as identified in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b):       from point Z,
148 metres north of the junction of South Walsham Road with the new A47 Trunk
Road, in a westerly and then southerly direction crossing the new B1140
overbridge to point AL, a distance of 485 metres.       from point AL in a
southerly direction to point AA (sheet 7), a distance of 103 metres.

##### CLASSIFIED C ROADS

      (1)   Area   (2)   Length of road     The classification of roads plans
– sheet 1 Blofield Yarmouth Road (including existing highway to be improved)
to be classified as part of the C458 Yarmouth Road   From point N, 6 metres
east of the private access into the Norwich Camping and Leisure garden centre,
in an easterly and then northerly direction to point E, a distance of 153
metres.   Blofield Waterlow (new alignment)   From point O, 155 metres east of
the private access into the Norwich Camping and Leisure garden centre, in an
easterly direction to point P (sheet 2), a distance of 313 metres.   The
classification of roads plans – sheet 2 Blofield Blofield Bridge and approach
roads   From point P, 313 metres east of the new junction of Waterlow with
Yarmouth Road, in easterly direction crossing the new Blofield Overbridge to
point Q on the de-trunked A47, a distance of 570 metres.   Blofield, Lingwood
and Burlingham De-trunked A47 (including existing highway to be improved)
From point Q, 570 metres east of the centreline of Waterlow, in easterly
direction to point V (sheet 5), a distance of 1,972 metres.   Blofield
Waterlow (including existing highway to be improved)   From point S, 313
metres east of its junction with Yarmouth Road, in a southerly direction to
point R, a distance of 69 metres.   Blofield De-trunked A47 (including
existing highway to be improved)   From point T, 7 metres west of the
centreline of High Noon Lane, in an easterly direction to point U, north of
the new Blofield overbridge, a distance of 414 metres.   The classification of
roads plans – sheet 4 Lingwood and Burlingham Lingwood Road turning head   A
turning head on Lingwood Road from point AS, 91 metres south of the southern
boundary of the de-trunked A47, in an easterly direction to point AT, a
distance of 13 metres.   The classification of roads plans – sheet 5 Lingwood
and Burlingham De-trunked A47 East Side road realignment (including existing
highway to be improved)   From point V, 2,537 metres east of its junction with
High Noon Lane, in an easterly and then north-easterly direction to point W
(sheet 6), a distance of 520 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Lingwood Lane
turning head   A turning head on Lingwood Lane from point AU, 111 metres south
of the southern boundary of the de-trunked A47, in an easterly direction to
point AV, a distance of 11 metres.   The classification of roads plans – sheet
6 Lingwood and Burlingham Main Road East   From point X, 121 metres east of
the private access into the Old College, in an easterly and then southerly
direction to point Y,, a distance of 55 metres.   Beighton Acle Road junction
with the B1440 Coxhill Road (including existing highway to be improved)   From
point AC, 5 metres northeast of the junction of Acle Road with Coxhill Road,
in a south-westerly direction to point AB (sheet 7), for a distance of 29
metres.

##### UNCLASSIFIED ROADS

      (1)   Area   (2)   Length of road     The classification of roads plans
– sheet 2 Blofield Access road   From point AO, 52 metres south west of the
new Blofield Overbridge, in a south-easterly then north-easterly direction to
point AP, a distance of 197 metres.   Blofield Access road link to maintenance
access track   From point AQ, 22 metres west of the point AP in a southerly
then westerly direction to point AR, a distance of 15 metres.   The
classification of roads plans – sheet 6 Lingwood and Burlingham, Beighton
White House Lane realignment   From point AD, 66 metres northwest of the
junction of Coxhill Road and Lingwood Long Lane in a north-easterly direction
to point AE, a distance of 117 metres.   Beighton White House Lane   From
point AE, 163 metres southwest of its junction with the southern boundary of
the new A47 Trunk Road, in a north-easterly direction to point AF, a distance
of 143 metres.   Beighton White House Lane link to maintenance access track
From point AX on White House Lane, 45 metres south of the junction of the de-
trunked A47 with the B1140 White House Lane, in a westerly direction to point
AY, a distance of 24 metres.

##### SPEED LIMITS

Note: where speed limits are indicated on the plans relating to this Part (the
traffic regulation plans) but are not referenced in this Schedule, they
indicate that national speed limits apply in accordance with either: a the
national speed limit set out in— i section 86 (speed limits for particular
classes of vehicles)  of and Schedule 6 (speed limits for particular classes
of vehicles)  to the 1984 Act; and ii the 70 miles per hour, 60 miles per hour
and 50 miles per hour (Temporary Speed Limit) Order 1977 as varied by the 70
miles per hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per hour (Temporary Speed
Limit) (Variation) Order 1978 and continued indefinitely by Regulation 2 of
the 70 Miles Per Hour, 60 Miles Per Hour and 50 Miles Per Hour (Temporary
Speed Limit) (Continuation) Order 1978 ; or b sections 81 and 82 of the Road
Traffic Regulation Act 1984 (which defines speed limits on ‘restricted roads’
by reference to street lighting),

and are not subject to this order. For details of the scheme lighting design,
refer to the general arrangement plans. (1) Parish (2) Road name, number and
length (3) Speed Limit The traffic regulation plans – sheet 1 Blofield A47
Trunk Road westbound From point X1, 573 metres east of the centreline of the
Plantation Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to point X2, a distance
of 26 metres. For extent of lighting design see general arrangement plans
sheet 1. Removal of Restricted Road Status Blofield A47 Trunk Road including
westbound diverge From point X5 (sheet 2) in a westerly and then south-
westerly direction to point X4 (sheet 1), a distance of 163 metres. For extent
of lighting design see general arrangement plans sheets 1 and 2. Removal of
Restricted Road Status Blofield A47 Trunk Road including westbound merge From
point X3 in a north-westerly direction to point X2, a distance of 173 metres.
For extent of lighting design see general arrangement plans sheet 1. Removal
of Restricted Road Status Blofield The realigned Waterlow From point O, 18
metres east of its junction with Yarmouth Road, in an easterly direction
crossing the new Blofield Overbridge to point U (sheet 3) on the de-trunked
A47, a total distance of 1045 metres. 40 miles per hour The traffic regulation
plans – sheet 2 Blofield A47 Trunk Road westbound From point X6, 944 metres
east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in a westerly
direction to point X5, a distance of 33 metres. For extent of lighting design
see general arrangement plans sheet 2. Removal of Restricted Road Status
Blofield Access Road From point N, 554 metres east of the junction of Yarmouth
Road and the realigned Waterlow, in a south-easterly and then north-easterly
direction to point P, a distance of 196 metres. 30 miles per hour Blofield
Access Road link to Maintenance Access Track From point AJ, 728 metres east of
the junction of Yarmouth Road and the realigned Waterlow, in a southerly then
westerly direction to point AK, a distance of 13 metres. 30 miles per hour
Blofield Existing Waterlow From point T, 310 metres east of the junction with
Yarmouth Road  ..., in a southerly direction to point S, a distance of 19
metres. 40 miles per hour Blofield High Noon Lane From point W, 1,027 metres
east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in a northerly
direction to point V, a distance of 19 metres. 40 miles per hour Blofield The
de-trunked A47 From point R, at the new junction between High Noon Lane and
the de-trunked A47, in an easterly direction to point X north of the new
Blofield Overbridge, a distance of 423 metres. 40 miles per hour The traffic
regulation plans – sheet 5 Lingwood and Burlingham The de-trunked A47 From
point Y, 697 metres east of its western junction with Main Road, in an
easterly and then north-easterly direction to point X7 (sheet 6), a distance
of 382 metres. 50 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans – sheet 6
Lingwood and Burlingham The de-trunked A47 From point X7, 1,079 metres east of
its western junction with Main Road, in a north-easterly and then easterly
direction to point Z, a distance of 117 metres. Removal of Restricted Road
Status 50 miles per hour Lingwood and Burlingham Main Road From point AA in an
easterly and then southerly direction to point AB, a distance of 55 metres. 50
miles per hour Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road eastbound From point X8,
1,057 metres west of the centreline of The Windle Junction, in an easterly
direction to point X9, a distance of 77 metres For extent of lighting design
see general arrangement plans sheet 6. Removal of Restricted Road Status
Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road including eastbound diverge From point
X9 in an easterly and then northerly direction to point X10, a distance of 181
metres. For extent of lighting design see general arrangement plans sheet 6.
Removal of Restricted Road Status Lingwood and Burlingham / Beighton A47 Trunk
Road including eastbound merge From point X11 in a southerly and then easterly
direction to point X12, a distance of 332 metres. For extent of lighting
design see general arrangement plans sheet 6. Removal of Restricted Road
Status Beighton / Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road westbound From point
X13, 795 metres west of the centreline of The Windle Junction, in a westerly
direction to point X14, a distance of 66 metres. For extent of lighting design
see general arrangement plans sheet 6. Removal of Restricted Road Status
Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road including westbound diverge From point
X14 in a westerly and then south-westerly direction to point X15, a distance
of 171 metres. For extent of lighting design see general arrangement plans
sheet 6. Removal of Restricted Road Status Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk
Road including westbound merge From point X16 in a north-westerly and then
westerly direction to point X17, a distance of 322 metres. For extent of
lighting design see general arrangement plans sheet 6. Removal of Restricted
Road Status Lingwood and Burlingham / Beighton Coxhill Road from point AF, at
its junction with Acle Road, in a southerly direction to point AG (sheet 7), a
distance of 109 metres. 30 miles per hour Beighton / Lingwood and Burlingham
White House Lane from point AC, 30 metres south of the A47 Trunk Road, in a
southerly and then south-westerly direction to Point AD, a distance of 259
metres. 30 miles per hour Beighton White House Lane link to Maintenance Access
Track From point AH, 45 metres south of the junction of White House Lane with
the de-trunked A47 in an westerly direction to point AI, a distance of 24
metres. 30 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans – sheet 7 Lingwood and
Burlingham / Beighton Acle Road from point AE, 798 metres northeast of its
junction with Lingwood Lane, in a north easterly direction to point AF (sheet
6), a distance of 19 metres. 30 miles per hour

##### REVOCATIONS & VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDERS

      (1)   Parish   (2)   Road name and number   (3)   Title of Order   (4)
Revocations or Variations     The traffic regulation plans – sheet 2 Blofield
Former A47 Trunk Road The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to
Great   Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013   Paragraph 3 of the
said order will not apply to the eastbound Former A47 Trunk Road from point Z1
876 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge in an
easterly direction to point Z3, a distance of 370 metres. Blofield Former A47
Trunk Road The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to Great
Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013   Paragraph 3 of the said
order will not apply to the westbound Former A47 Trunk Road from point Z2 979
metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge in an easterly
direction to point Z3, a distance of 268 metres. Blofield / Lingwood and
Burlingham Former A47 Trunk Road The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of
Peterborough to Great   Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013
Paragraph 3 of the said order will not apply to the Former A47 Trunk Road from
point Z3 1,246 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge
in an easterly direction to point Z4 (sheet 5), a distance of 2,272 metres.
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 5 Lingwood and Burlingham Former A47
Trunk Road The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough to Great
Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013   Paragraph 3 of the said
order will not apply to the eastbound Former A47 Trunk Road from point Z4 3518
metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge in an easterly
direction to point Z5 (sheet 6), a distance of 826 metres. Lingwood and
Burlingham / Beighton Former A47 Trunk Road The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City
of Peterborough to Great   Yarmouth, Norfolk) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013
Paragraph 3 of the said order will not apply to the westbound Former A47 Trunk
Road from point Z4 3518 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road
Overbridge in an easterly direction to point Z6 (sheet 6), a distance of 721
metres.

##### FOOTPATHS, CYCLE TRACKS, FOOTWAYS AND BRIDLEWAYS

      (1)   Parish   (2)   Length of Footpath/Cycle track/Footway/Bridleway
The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1 Blofield Reference F1 to F2   A
footway in the verge on the northern side of Yarmouth Road, opposite the
access to Norwich Camping and Leisure garden centre from point F1 at the
termination of the existing footway, in an easterly direction to point F2, a
distance of 8 metres.   Blofield Reference F3 to F4   A footway in the verge
on the southern side of Yarmouth Road and the realigned Waterlow from point F3
on Yarmouth Road, 6 metres east of the private access into the Norwich Camping
and Leisure garden centre, in an easterly direction passing into the realigned
Waterlow to point F4, a distance of 224 metres.   Blofield Reference SU1 to
SU2 (sheet 2)   A cycle track in the verge on the northern side of the
realigned Waterlow from point SU1, 69 metres east of its junction with
Yarmouth Road, in an easterly and then north-easterly direction over the new
Blofield Overbridge to the de-trunked A47 at point SU2 (sheet 2), a distance
of 627 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Blofield
Reference SU3 to SU4 (sheet 3)   A cycle track in the verge on the northern
side of the de-trunked A47 from point SU3, 396 metres east of High Noon Lane
junction, in an easterly direction to the Plantation Farm and Jary’s Farm
access at point SU4 (sheet 3), a distance of 385 metres.   Blofield Reference
SU16 to SU17   A cycle track in the verge on the southern approach road to the
new Blofield Overbridge from point SU16, 512 metres east of the junction of
the realigned Waterlow and Yarmouth Road, in an easterly and then south-
easterly direction onto the new Access Road to point SU17, a distance of 77
metres.   Blofield Reference SU18 to SU21   A cycle track on the northern side
of new Access Road from point SU18, 593 metres east of the junction of the
realigned Waterlow and Yarmouth Road, in a north-easterly and then easterly
direction to point SU21 (sheet 4) at Burlingham Footpath 3, a distance of
1,425 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 3 Lingwood and
Burlingham Reference SU5 to SU6   A cycle track in the verge on the northern
side of the de-trunked A47 from point SU5, at the Plantation Farm and Jary’s
Farm access, in an easterly direction to Dell Corner Lane at point SU6 (sheet
4), a distance of 705 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4
Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU14 to SU15   A cycle track in the verge on
the northern side of the de-trunked A47 from point SU14 at the eastern side of
Dell Corner Lane, in an easterly direction to point SU15 at Main Road, a
distance of 250 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU19 to SU21   A
cycle track from point SU19, 63 metres south of the former junction of the
stopped up Lingwood Road with the de-trunked A47, in a southerly direction
crossing the new agricultural access track to point SU21 at Lingwood Road, a
distance of 9 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Reference FP4 to FP5   A
footpath from point FP4, 67 metres south of the junction of the stopped up
Burlingham Footpath 3 with the de-trunked A47 in a southerly direction
crossing the new agricultural access track to point FP5, a distance of 9
metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU21 to SU29 (sheet 5)   A cycle
track:       on the northern side of new agricultural access track from point
SU21, 67 metres south of the junction of stopped up Burlingham Footpath 3 with
the de-trunked A47, in an easterly direction to point SU23, a distance of 97
metres;       then in a southerly direction, crossing from the northern to the
southern side of new maintenance access track to point SU24, a distance of 9
metres;       then in an easterly direction, on the southern side of new
maintenance access track, in an easterly direction to point SU25 (sheet 5), a
distance of 340 metres;       then in a southerly direction, to the south of
the new maintenance access track, to point SU26 (sheet 5), a distance of 5
metres;       then in a south-easterly direction of the southern side of new
maintenance access track to point SU27 (sheet 5), a distance of 145 metres;
then in a northerly direction to point SU28 (sheet 5), a distance of 39
metres; and       then in an easterly direction to point SU29 (sheet 5) at
Lingwood Lane, a distance of 194 metres.       The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 5 Lingwood and Burlingham Reference F9 to F10   A footway in the
verge on the northern side of Main Road from point FP9, at the eastern side of
the private access to the Old College, in an easterly direction to point F10
(sheet 6), a distance of 96 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU29
to SU34   A cycle track:       from point SU29, at Lingwood Lane, 86 metres
south, the southern boundary of the de-trunked A47, in a northerly direction
along the line of the stopped up Lingwood Lane to point SU30, a distance of 22
metres;       then in an easterly direction, south of the A47 Trunk Road to
point SU31 (sheet 6), a distance of 388 metres;       then in a south-easterly
and then easterly direction, on the western side of new slip road onto the new
A47 Trunk Road (south-west of the new B1140 Overbridge), to point SU32 (sheet
6), a distance of 263 metres;       then in a south-easterly direction,
parallel to the new B1140 Overbridge southern approach road, to point SU33
(sheet 6), a distance of 65 metres; and       then in a easterly direction to
point SU34 (sheet 6), a distance of 9 metres.       The rights of way and
access plans – sheet 6 Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU7 to SU8   A cycle
track in the verge on the northern side of Main Road from point SU7, 96 metres
east of the eastern side of the private access to the Old College, in an
easterly and then north-easterly direction to point SU8 on the B1140 South
Walsham Road (sheet 6), a distance of 414 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham
Reference SU9 to SU10   A cycle track in the verge on the southern side of the
new road linking the de-trunked A47 to the new B1140 Overbridge northern
approach from point SU9, 352 metres east of the eastern side of the private
access to the Old Cottage on Main Road, in a north-easterly and then southerly
direction, crossing the new B1140 Overbridge on its western side and then
turning west at the new slip road onto the new A47 Trunk Road to point SU10, a
distance of 326 metres.   Lingwood and Burlingham Reference SU11 to SU13   A
cycle track in the verge on the southern side of the new slip road onto the
new A47 Trunk Road (south of the new B1140 Overbridge):       from point SU11
in an easterly and then south-easterly direction to point SU12, a distance of
104 metres; and       then in a south-easterly and then south-westerly
direction to point SU13 (sheet 7) at Acle Road, a distance of 72 metres.

##### ROADS TO BE DE-TRUNKED

      (1)   Parish   (2)   Length of Road     The de-trunking plans – sheets
1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 A length of 3,250 metres of the A47 Trunk Road from point
A (sheet 2), 877 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road
Overbridge, in an easterly direction to point B (sheet 6) 123 metres east of
South Walsham Road.

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

      (1)   Parish   (2)   Road name, number and length   (3)   Measures
The traffic regulation plans – sheets 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 Blofield /
Lingwood and Burlingham / Beighton / Acle A47 Trunk Road eastbound   From
point A, 362 metres east of the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge,
in an easterly direction to point B (sheet 8), a distance of 4,570 metres.
Clearway (including verges, hard shoulders) Blofield / Lingwood and Burlingham
/ Beighton / Acle A47 Trunk Road westbound   From point C, 362 metres east of
the centreline of the Plantation Road Overbridge, in an easterly direction to
point D (sheet 8), a distance of 4,474 metres.   Clearway (including verges,
hard shoulders) The traffic regulation plans – sheets 1 Blofield A47 Trunk
Road Yarmouth Road Junction Westbound Merge (including existing highway to be
improved)   From point E in a north-westerly direction to point F, a distance
of 173 metres.   Clearway (including verges, hard shoulders) The traffic
regulation plans – sheets 2 Blofield A47 Trunk Road Yarmouth Road Junction
Westbound Diverge (including existing highway to be improved)   From point G
in a westerly and then south-westerly direction to point E (sheet 1), a
distance of 163 metres.   Clearway (including verges, hard shoulders) The
traffic regulation plans – sheets 6 Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road new
Diverge to Southern Slip Road leading to New B1140 Overbridge   From point M
in a westerly and then south-westerly direction to point K, a distance of 171
metres.   Clearway (including verges, hard shoulders) Lingwood and Burlingham
A47 Trunk Road new Merge from Southern Slip Road leading to New B1140
Overbridge   From point K in a north-westerly and then westerly direction to
point L (sheet 5), a distance of 322 metres.   Clearway (including verges,
hard shoulders) Lingwood and Burlingham A47 Trunk Road South Walsham Road
Junction Eastbound Diverge   From point I in an easterly and then northerly
direction to point H, a distance of 181 metres.   Clearway (including verges,
hard shoulders) Lingwood and Burlingham / Beighton / Acle A47 Trunk Road South
Walsham Road Junction Eastbound Merge   From point H in a southerly and then
easterly direction to point J, a distance of 332 metres.   Clearway (including
verges, hard shoulders)

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS & PROVISION OF
NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

Articles 17, 28 and 29

The provisions described in this Schedule are shown on the rights of way and
access plans in the following manner—   a     Existing highways which are to
be stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule,
are shown by thick black diagonal hatching (as shown in the key on the rights
of way and access plans) over the extent of the area to be stopped up, which
is described in column (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and given a
reference label in a square box (a capital A followed by a number).       b
New highways which are to be substituted for a highway to be stopped up (or
which are otherwise to be provided), as are included in column (4) of Part 2
of this Schedule, are shown by—     i     red honeycomb-hatching (for
motorways and trunk roads),       ii     blue cross-hatching (for other
classified roads and highways),       iii     orange dashes (for cycle
tracks),       iv     brown dashes (for footpaths),       v     and green
dashes (for footways),     (as shown in the key on the rights of way and
access plans) and are given a reference label in a square (D for new highway
to be substituted or provided, SU for cycle tracks, FP for footpaths and F for
footways in each case followed by a number) and will be a road unless the word
“footpath” , “bridleway”, “footway” or “cycle track” appears beneath its
reference letter in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule.       c     Private
means of access which are to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of
Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, are shown by solid black shading (as shown in
the key on the rights of way and access plans) over the extent of stopping up
described in column (3) of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, and are given a
reference label in a square (a capital B followed by a number).       d
New private means of access which are to be substituted for a private means of
access to be stopped up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are
included in column (4) of Part 3 of this Schedule, are shown by black line
hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) and are
given a reference label in a square (a capital C followed by a number).
e     Private means of access which are to be altered are included in column
(2) of Part 5 of this Schedule, are shown by purple line hatching (as shown in
the key on the rights of way and access plans) and are given a reference label
in a square (a capital C followed by a number).

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Area   (2)   Highway to be stopped up   (3)   Extent of stopping
up     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1 Blofield Reference A2
See sheet 2   Reference A2   See sheet 2   The rights of way and access plans
– sheet 2 Blofield Reference A2   De-trunked A47   Reference A2   From a point
48 metres east of the Yarmouth Road junction in an easterly direction to a
point 10 metres east of the improved private means of access into the Atlantic
Truck and Van Centre (see reference C3), a distance of 285 metres.   Blofield
Reference A3   De-trunked A47   Reference A3   From a point 382 metres east of
High Noon Lane in an easterly direction for a distance of 106 metres.   The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 4 Lingwood and Burlingham Reference A4
(see inset D)   Lingwood Road   Reference A4 (see inset D)   From its junction
with the southern boundary of the de-trunked A47 in a southerly direction to
the southern boundary of the new private means of access (reference C4), a
distance of 72 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5 Lingwood
and Burlingham Reference A6   Lingwood Lane   Reference A6   From its junction
with the southern boundary of the de-trunked A47 in a southerly direction to
the northern boundary of the new cycle track where it turns north along
Lingwood Lane, a distance of 86 metres.   The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 6 Beighton Reference A9   Part of White House Lane   Reference A9   From
its junction with the new A47 Trunk Road in a southerly direction for a
distance of 22 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 8 Acle
Reference A10   A47 Trunk Road eastbound lay-by   Reference A10   A length of
lay-by from a point 384 metres east of the junction of the de-trunked A47 with
the B1140 South Walsham Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 335
metres.

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Area   (2)   Highway to be stopped up   (3)   Extent of stopping
up   (4)   New highway to be substituted/provided     The rights of way and
access plans – sheet 1 Blofield Reference A1   Part of the existing Waterlow
Reference A1   A length from a point 27 metres east of its junction with
Yarmouth Road in an easterly and then southerly direction for a distance of
292 metres (sheet 2)   Reference D1   Realigned Waterlow   To be substituted
by a length of new highway from a point 27 metres east of the junction of
Waterlow with Yarmouth Road in an easterly and then south-easterly direction
to the part of Waterlow which is not being stopped up (sheet 2), a distance of
270 metres.   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Blofield Reference
A1   See sheet 1   Reference D1   See sheet 1   The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 4 Lingwood and Burlingham Reference A5 (see inset E)
Burlingham Footpath 3   Reference A5 (see inset E)   From its junction with
the de-trunked A47 in a southerly direction for a distance of 76 metres to the
southern boundary of the new agricultural access track   Reference SU18 (sheet
2) to FP5       A cycle track on the northern side of new Access Road from
point SU18 (sheet 2), 593 metres east of the junction of the realigned
Waterlow and Yarmouth Road, in a north-easterly and then easterly direction to
point SU21 (sheet 4) at Burlingham Footpath 3, a distance of 1,425 metres; and
A footpath from point FP4, 67 metres south of the junction of the stopped up
Burlingham Footpath 3 with the de-trunked A47 in a southerly direction
crossing the new agricultural access track to FP5, at Burlingham Footpath 3, a
distance of 9 metres.       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5
Lingwood and Burlingham Reference A7   Part of the de-trunked A47   Reference
A7   A length from a point 59 metres east of its junction with Lingwood Lane
in an easterly direction for a distance of 706 metres   References D2, D3, D4,
D5, D6, D7   To be substituted by the following lengths of new highway:
Reference D2 from a point 59 metres east of the junction of the de-trunked A47
with Lingwood Lane in an easterly direction for a distance of 520 metres;
Reference D3 (sheet 6) a length of new highway from a point 579 metres east of
the junction of the de-trunked A47 with Lingwood Lane in an easterly direction
for a distance of 70 metres to a new junction with B1140 South Walsham Road;
Reference D4 (sheet 6, see inset F) a length of improved South Walsham Road
from a point 649 metres east of the junction of the de-trunked A47 with
Lingwood Lane in a southerly direction for 91 metres to the northern boundary
of the junction of South Walsham Road with the stopped up de-trunked A47;
Reference D5 (sheet 6, see inset F) a length of new highway from the northern
boundary of the junction of South Walsham Road with the stopped up de-trunked
A47 in a southerly direction for 58 metres to the northern boundary of the new
A47 Trunk Road;       Reference D6 (sheet 6) a length of new highway from a
point 579 metres east of the junction of the de-trunked A47 with Lingwood Lane
in a southerly direction (over but not including the structure of the new
B1140 Overbridge) for 268 metres; and       Reference D7 (sheet 6) a length of
new highway from a point 177 metres south of the southern boundary of the de-
trunked A47 in a westerly and then northerly direction to the new A47 Trunk
Road, a distance of 209 metres.       The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 6 Lingwood and Burlingham Reference A7   See sheet 5   References D2,
D3, D4, D5, D6, D7   See sheet 5   Beighton Reference A8   Part of White House
Lane   Reference A8   A length from its junction with the B1140 Coxhill Road
in a north-easterly direction for a distance of 101 metres   Reference D8, D9
To be substituted by the following lengths of new highway:       Reference D8
from a point 101 metres north-east of the junction of White House Lane with
the B1140 Coxhill Road in a south-westerly direction for a distance of 110
metres; and       Reference D9 from a point 64 metres north-west of the
junction of White House Lane with the B1140 Coxhill Road in a south-easterly
direction for a distance of 64 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Area   (2)   Private means of access to be stopped   (3)   Extent
of stopping up   (4)   New private means of access to be substituted or
provided     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1 Blofield Reference
B4 (see inset A)   Access to the Blofield Allotments and adjacent field from
the southern boundary of the existing Waterlow, 48 metres east of its junction
with Yarmouth Road   Reference B4 (see inset A)   The whole of the private
access from a point 48 metres east of the junction of the existing Waterlow
with Yarmouth Road eastwards for a distance of 11 metres   Reference C1   To
be substituted by a new private access to the Blofield Allotments and adjacent
field from the southern boundary of the realigned Waterlow from a point 53
metres east of its junction with Yarmouth Road in an easterly direction for a
distance of 25 metres   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Blofield
Reference B6   Agricultural access from the southern boundary of the de-
trunked A47, 485 metres east of High Noon Lane   Reference B6   The whole of
the private access from a point 485 metres east of High Noon Lane eastwards
for a distance of 8 metres   Reference C4   New private means of access to
agricultural land and infiltration pond from the eastern end of the Access
Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 251 metres (sheet 3)   (NOTE:
the measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general arrangement
plans sheet 3)   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 3 Blofield
Reference B7   Agricultural access from the southern boundary of the de-
trunked A47, 620 metres east of High Noon Lane   Reference B7   The whole of
the private access from a point 620 metres east of High Noon Lane eastwards
for a distance of 8 metres   Reference C4   New private means of access to
agricultural land and infiltration pond from the eastern end of the Access
Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 251 metres (Sheet 3)   (NOTE:
the measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general arrangement
plans sheet 3)   Blofield Reference B8   Agricultural access from the southern
boundary of the de-trunked A47, 946 metres east of High Noon Lane   Reference
B8   The whole of the private access from a point 946 metres east of High Noon
Lane eastwards for a distance of 10 metres   Reference C4   New private means
of access to agricultural land from the eastern end of the Access Road in an
easterly direction for a distance of 251 metres (Sheet 3)   (NOTE: the
measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general arrangement plans
sheet 3)   Blofield Reference B9   Agricultural access from the southern
boundary of the de-trunked A47, 1,127 metres east of High Noon Lane
Reference B9   The whole of the private access from a point 1,127 metres east
of High Noon Lane eastwards for a distance of 10 metres   Reference C4   New
private means of access to agricultural land from the eastern end of the
Access Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 251 metres (Sheet 3)
(NOTE: the measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general
arrangement plans sheet 3)   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4
Lingwood and Burlingham Reference B10   Agricultural access from the eastern
boundary of Lingwood Road, 53 metres south of the junction of Lingwood Lane
and the de-trunked A47   Reference B10   The whole of the private access from
a point 53 metres south of the junction of Lingwood Lane and the de-trunked
A47 southwards for a distance of 6 metres   Reference C4   New private means
of access to agricultural land from the eastern end of the Access Road in an
easterly direction for a distance of 1,337 metres (Sheet 4)   (NOTE: the
measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general arrangement plans
sheet 4)   Blofield Reference B11   Agricultural access from the southern
boundary of the de-trunked A47, 1,774 metres east of High Noon Lane
Reference B11   The whole of the private access from a point 1,774 metres east
of High Noon Lane eastwards for a distance of 11 metres   Reference C4   New
private means of access to agricultural land from the eastern end of the
Access Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 1,337 metres (Sheet4)
(NOTE: the measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general
arrangement plans sheet 4)   Blofield Reference B12   Agricultural access from
the southern boundary of the de-trunked A47, 2,004 metres east of High Noon
Lane   Reference B12   The whole of the private access from a point 2,004
metres east of High Noon Lane eastwards for a distance of 6 metres   Reference
C4   New private means of access to agricultural land from the eastern end of
the Access Road in an easterly direction for a distance of 1,337 metres (Sheet
4)   (NOTE: the measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general
arrangement plans sheet 4)   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5
Blofield Reference B13   Agricultural access from the southern boundary of the
de-trunked A47, 2,210 metres east of High Noon Lane   Reference B13   The
whole of the private access from a point 2,210 metres east of High Noon Lane
eastwards for a distance of 5 metres   Reference C4   New private means of
access to agricultural land from the eastern end of the Access Road in an
easterly direction for a distance of 1,337 metres (Sheet 4)   (NOTE: the
measurement given above is to the gate shown on the general arrangement plans
sheet 4)   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 6 Lingwood and
Burlingham Reference B18   Agricultural access on the north-western side of
the junction of Acle Road with the B1140 Coxhill Road, 291 metres south-west
of the junction of White House Lane with the new A47 Trunk Road   Reference
B18   The whole of the private access from a point 291 metres south-west of
the junction of White House Lane with the new A47 Trunk Road for a distance of
5 metres   Reference C5 (sheet 7)   To be substituted by a new private access
from the western boundary of Acle Road from a point 77 metres south west of
the junction of White House Lane with the B1140 Coxhill Road south-westwards
for a distance of 5 metres   Lingwood and Burlingham None None Reference C6
New private means of access to agricultural land from the eastern boundary of
White House Lane from a point 105 metres north-east of the junction of the
White House Lane with B1140 Coxhill Road in a north-easterly direction for a
distance of 5 metres

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

      (1)   Area   (2)   Private means of access to be stopped up   (3)
Extent of stopping up     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1
Blofield Reference B1   Access to Plantation Park football fields to the south
of the all-weather pitch from the northern boundary of the existing A47, 323
metres west of Yarmouth Road junction   Reference B1   The whole of the
private access from a point 323 metres west of Yarmouth Road junction
eastwards for a distance of 10 metres   Blofield Reference B2   Access to the
Plantation Park football fields from the northern boundary of the existing
A47, 193 metres west of Yarmouth Road junction   Reference B2   The whole of
the private access from a point 193 metres west of Yarmouth Road junction
eastwards for a distance of 7 metres   Blofield Reference B3   Access to the
High Noon Lane private road from the northern boundary of the existing A47, 20
metres north of Yarmouth Road junction   Reference B3   The whole of the
private access from a point 20 metres north of Yarmouth Road junction
eastwards for a distance of 27 metres.   The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 2 Blofield Reference B5 (see inset C)   Agricultural access on the
eastern side of the existing Waterlow from a point 297 metres from the
junction of Waterlow and Yarmouth Road   Reference B5 (see inset C)   The
whole of the private access from a point 297 metres east of the existing
Waterlow and Yarmouth Road junction, for a distance of 8 metres in a south-
easterly direction   The rights of way and access plans – sheet 6 Lingwood and
Burlingham Reference B14   Agricultural access on the eastern side of the
South Walsham Road, 21 metres north of its junction with the de-trunked A47
Reference B14   The whole of the private access from a point 21 metres north
of the junction with the de-trunked A47 northwards for a distance of 8 metres
Lingwood and Burlingham Reference B15 (see inset G)   Agricultural access on
the northern side of the stopped up (see reference A7) de-trunked A47, 147
metres east of its junction with South Walsham Road   Reference B15 (see inset
G)   The whole of the private access from a point 147 metres east of the
junction of South Walsham Road the de-trunked A47 eastwards for a distance of
8 metres   Beighton Reference B16   Agricultural access on the western side of
White House Lane, 31 metres south of its junction with the new A47 Trunk Road
Reference B16   The whole of the private access from a point 31 metres south
of the junction of White House Lane with the newA47 Trunk Road southwards for
a distance of 14 metres   Beighton Reference B17   Agricultural access on the
western side of White House Lane, 148 metres south of its junction with the
new A47 Trunk Road   Reference B17   The whole of the private access from a
point 148 metres south of the junction of White House Lane with the new A47
Trunk Road southwards for a distance of 10 metres   The rights of way and
access plans – sheet 8 Acle Reference B19 (see inset H)   Agricultural access
on the northern side of the A47 Trunk Road eastbound lay-by, 485 metres east
of the junction of the A47 Trunk Road and South Walsham Road   Reference B19
(see inset H)   The whole of the private access from a point 485 metres east
of the junction of the A47 Trunk Road and South Walsham Road southwards for a
distance of 10 metres

##### ALTERATIONS TO PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

      (1)   Parish(es)   (2)   Private means of access to be altered     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 2 Blofield Reference C2 (see inset B)
Modified access to the High Noon Lane private road 10 metres to the west of
the southernmost point of High Noon Lane highway   Blofield Reference C3
Modified access to Atlantic Truck and Van Centre 44 metres east of High Noon
Lane

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 27

      (1)   Plot reference number shown on land plans   (2)   Purpose for
which rights and restrictive covenants over land may be acquired   (3)
Relevant part of the authorised development     Land Plans – Sheet No. 1 1/2d
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 2 1/7 Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables
and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 2 1/10b Installation,
maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work Nos. 5, 12 1/11a Diversion of an intermediate pressure gas
main together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Installation, maintenance
and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic
communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants
for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access
to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work Nos.
5, 12 1/12b Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas
main together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants
for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access
to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
Land Plans – Sheet No. 2 2/1b Installation, maintenance and use of an
intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 2/1c Installation, maintenance and use
of an intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 2/2b Installation, maintenance and use
of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 2 2/3
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 2 2/4 Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables
and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work Nos. 2, 12 2/5 Installation,
maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 2 2/13a Installation, maintenance and use of an
intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 2/14a Installation, maintenance and
use of an intermediate pressure gas main together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 2/17 Installation,
maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work Nos. 2, 8 2/17a Installation, maintenance and use of ducts,
cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 2 2/18c
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 2 2/19b Installation, maintenance and use of an
intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 Land Plans – Sheet No. 3 3/2b
Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
3/2c Installation, maintenance and use of electricity distribution network
cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 19
3/2d Installation, maintenance and use of electricity distribution network
cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 20
3/4c Installation, maintenance and use of electricity distribution network
cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 19
3/7 Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
Land Plans – Sheet No. 4 4/2a Installation, maintenance and use of an
intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 4/4 Installation, maintenance and use
of an intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 4/7d Installation, maintenance and use
of an intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 4/7e Installation, maintenance and use
of electricity distribution network cables.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 24 Land Plans – Sheet No. 5 5/1b Installation,
maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 5/1d
Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
5/1f Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
5/1g Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
5/5d Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
5/5f Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
5/6a Installation, maintenance and use of electricity distribution network
cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 28A
Land Plans – Sheet No. 6 6/1h Installation, maintenance and use of electricity
distribution network cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 42 6/1i Installation, maintenance and use of an
intermediate pressure gas main together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.   Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 5 6/1l Installation, maintenance and use
of ducts, water pipes, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic
communications operators and including covenants for the protection of the
installed apparatus.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants
for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access
to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 31
6/2d Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, water pipes, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 31 6/10a Installation of
ducts, water pipes, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic
communications operators.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting
the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work Nos. 28, 31 6/10b
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, water pipes, cables and apparatus
for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.   Work No. 31 6/10c Works to the existing A47(T)
east of North Burlingham, to connect to the new proposed junction with the
B1140 classified road to the north of Work No. 1.   Installation of ducts,
water pipes, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators and including restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work Nos. 28, 31 6/14 Installation,
maintenance and use of electricity distribution network cables and potable
water pipes.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work Nos. 42,
44 6/14b Installation, maintenance and use of electricity distribution network
cables.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 42
6/15a Installation maintenance and use of potable water pipes.   Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 44 6/15b Installation,
maintenance and use of electricity distribution network cables.   Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 42 6/17 Installation,
maintenance and use of electricity distribution network cables.   Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 42 Land Plans – Sheet No. 7
7/1b Installation, maintenance and use of an intermediate pressure gas main
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 5
Land Plans – Sheet No. 8 8/1 Installation, maintenance and use of ducts,
cables, potable water pipes and apparatus for utilities and electronic
communications operators.   Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.   To include restrictive covenants
for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access
to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 43
8/5a Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables, potable water pipes
and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.   To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.   Work No. 43 8/6 Installation,
maintenance and use of potable water pipes.   Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.   To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.   Work No. 44

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS AND IMPOSITION OF RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS

Article 27

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the compulsory purchase
of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date)  of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 (modification of compensation and
compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants) to the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Development
Consent Order 2022 (“ the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A47 Blofield to North Burlingham Order) to acquire an
interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition
provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 30 (modification of Part
1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under article 24 (compulsory
acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory acquisition of a right by the
creation of a new right, or to the imposition of a restrictive covenant under
article  27(1)  (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For Section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the posers
conferred by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11 (powers of entry)  of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory acquisition under
article 24), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject
to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or
enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections—

5.5.a

11A (powers of entry: further notices of entry) ,

5.5.b

11B (counter-notice requiring possession to be taken on specified dated) ,

5.5.c

12 (unauthorised entry) , and

5.5.d

13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority ,

of the 1965 Act are modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.)  of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act is modified by
article 30(4) so as to enable the acquiring authority in circumstances
corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue to be entitled
to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that section as
respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an undertaker serves a notice to treat in respect
of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 as
applied by article 31 (application of the 1981 Act) of the A47 Blofield to
North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of the land to
which the notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 32(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47
Blofield to North Burlingham Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they are included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes it determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Articles 20 and 34

      (1)   Location   (2)   Plot Reference Number shown on Land Plans   (3)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken   (4)   Relevant part of
the authorised development     Land plans – Sheet No. 1 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Blofield 1/3a Required to facilitate alteration of the A47
and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.
Also required to facilitate Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications operators to the east of Blofield; and
to facilitate diversion underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution
network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 3 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
1/3b Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also required to
facilitate Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators; and to facilitate diversion underground
of 11kV overhead electricity distribution network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 3
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 1/4b Required to facilitate
alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space.   Also required to facilitate installation of ducts, cables
and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators; and to
facilitate diversion underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution
network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 3 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
1/4c Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also required to
facilitate installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators; and to facilitate diversion underground
of 11kV overhead electricity distribution network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 2
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 1/7a Required to facilitate
alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas and
working space.   Also required to facilitate installation of ducts, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators; and to
facilitate diversion underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution
network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 2 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
1/9a Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also required to
facilitate a diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main.   Work Nos. 1, 4,
5, 12 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 1/9b Required to facilitate
alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space. Work Nos 1, 4 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
1/12a Required to facilitate diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main
together and to provide temporary storage laydown areas, working space and
access. Work Nos. 5, 7 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 1/13
Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary access
and working space.   Also required to facilitate a diversion underground of
11kV overhead electricity distribution network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 3, 4
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 1/14 Required to facilitate
alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary access and working space.
Also required to facilitate a diversion underground of 11kV overhead
electricity distribution network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 3, 4 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Blofield 1/15 Required to facilitate alteration of the A47
and to provide temporary access and working space.   Also required to
facilitate a diversion underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution
network cable.   Work Nos. 1, 3, 4 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
1/16 Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary
access and working space.   Also required to facilitate a diversion
underground of 11kV overhead electricity distribution network cable.   Work
Nos. 1, 3 Land plans – Sheet No. 2 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood
and Burlingham 2/1a Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also
required to facilitate a diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main.   And
required to facilitate Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications cables.   Work Nos. 1, 5, 7, 10, 12
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 2/1d Required to
facilitate a diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main and to provide
temporary storage laydown areas, working space and access Work No. 5 Norfolk
County Council, Parish of Blofield 2/1e Required to facilitate a diversion of
an intermediate pressure gas main and to provide temporary storage laydown
areas, working space and access Work No. 5 Norfolk County Council, Parish of
Blofield 2/3a Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also required to
facilitate installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 12 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Blofield 2/3b Required to facilitate alteration of the A47
and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.
Also required to facilitate installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications operators.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 12
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 2/3c Required to facilitate
alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space.   Also required to facilitate installation of ducts, cables
and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.   Work
Nos. 1, 2, 12 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 2/5a Required to
facilitate alteration of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space.   Also required to facilitate installation of
ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators.   Work Nos. 1, 2, 12 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield
2/13b Required to facilitate installation of water pipes ducts, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications cables. Also required to
facilitate Infiltration pond, soakaways and associated drainage, drivable
swale and maintenance access track, and to provide temporary laydown areas,
working space and access. Work Nos. 8, 13 Norfolk County Council, Parish of
Blofield 2/14b Required to facilitate a diversion of an intermediate pressure
gas main and to provide temporary storage laydown areas, working space and
access. Work No. 5 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 2/18c Required
to facilitate installation of, ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications cables. Also required to provide temporary laydown
areas, working space and access for the purposes of adjoining works. Work Nos
2, 9 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Blofield 2/19a Required to facilitate a
temporary construction compound. Work Nos. 1-44 Land plans – Sheet No. 3
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 3/2a Required to
facilitate a temporary construction compound.   Also required to facilitate
diversion underground of electricity distribution network cables underground.
Work nos. 1-44 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 3/4
Required to facilitate works to adjoining street and to provide temporary
laydown areas, working space and work access. Work No. 17A Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 3/4a Required to facilitate works
to adjoining street and to provide temporary laydown areas, working space and
work access. Work No. 17A Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and
Burlingham 3/4b Required to facilitate works to adjoining street and to
provide temporary laydown areas, working space and work access. Work No 17A
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 3/4d Required to
facilitate works to adjoining street and to provide temporary laydown areas,
working space and work access.   Also required to facilitate a diversion
underground of electricity distribution network cable.   Work Nos. 17A, 19
Land plans – Sheet No. 4 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and
Burlingham 4/7c Required to facilitate a diversion of an intermediate pressure
gas main and to provide temporary storage laydown areas, working space and
access.   Also required to facilitate works to adjacent streets and new roads.
Work Nos 1, 5, 14A 14B, 21 and 23 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood
and Burlingham 4/9 Required to facilitate works to adjoining street and to
provide temporary laydown areas, working space and work access.   Also
required to facilitate installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications operators and potable water pipes.
Work Nos. 17A and 22 Land plans – Sheet No. 5 Norfolk County Council, Parish
of Lingwood and Burlingham 5/1a Required to facilitate alteration of the A47
and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.
Also required to facilitate cycle track, access track, soakaway, drivable
swale and diversion of existing permissive equestrian and walking route and to
facilitate construction for highway turning head on Lingwood Lane,   Required
for temporary compound.   Work Nos 1-44 Norfolk County Council, Parish of
Lingwood and Burlingham 5/1c Required to facilitate alteration of the A47 and
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space.   Also
required to facilitate cycle track, access track, soakaway, drivable swale and
diversion of existing permissive equestrian and walking route and to
facilitate construction for highway turning head on Lingwood Lane,   required
for temporary compound.   Work Nos 1-44 Norfolk County Council, Parish of
Lingwood and Burlingham 5/5a Required for temporary compound. Work Nos. 1-44
Land plans – Sheet No. 6 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and
Burlingham 6/1a Required for Temporary compound. Work Nos. 1-44 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/1c Required to facilitate works
to neighbouring land to provide temporary compound. Work Nos. 1-44 Norfolk
County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/1f Required to facilitate
improvements to neighbouring street. Work No. 29 Norfolk County Council,
Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/1g Required to facilitate works to
neighbouring land to provide temporary compound. Work Nos 1-44 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/1j Required to facilitate a
diversion of an intermediate pressure gas main and to provide temporary
storage laydown areas, working space and access.   Also required to facilitate
a soakaway and associated access and works to adjoining streets.   Work Nos.
5, 35, 41 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/2a
Required to facilitate installation of ducts, water pipes, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators and to provide
temporary lay down areas, working space and work access. Work No. 31 Norfolk
County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 6/2c Required to facilitate
installation of ducts, water pipes, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators and to provide temporary lay down areas,
working space and work access.   Also required to facilitate improvements to
neighbouring street.   Work Nos. 29, 31 Norfolk County Council, Parish of
Beighton 6/6 Required to carry out works to form an new street on adjoining
land and to provide temporary lay down areas, working space and work access.
Work No. 35 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Beighton 6/9 Required to
facilitate installation of ducts, water pipes, cables and apparatus for
utilities and electronic communications operators and to provide temporary lay
down areas, working space and work access.   Also required to facilitate
improvements to neighbouring street.   Work No 31, 40 Land plans – Sheet No. 7
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Lingwood and Burlingham 7/1 Required to
facilitate a soakaway and to provide temporary storage laydown areas, working
space and access. Work No. 41 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Beighton 7/3
Required to facilitate works to adjoining street and to provide temporary
storage laydown areas, working space and access. Work No. 35 Norfolk County
Council, Parish of Beighton 7/3a Required to facilitate works to adjoining
street and to provide temporary storage laydown areas, working space and
access. Work No. 35 Norfolk County Council, Parish of Beighton 7/5a Required
to facilitate works to adjoining street and to provide temporary storage
laydown areas, working space and access. Work No. 35 Land plans – Sheet No. 8
Norfolk County Council, Parish of Acle 8/5 Required to facilitate alteration
of the A47 and to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space.   Also required to facilitate diversion of utility apparatus.   Work
Nos. 1, 43

  REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

Article 39

      (1)   Location of hedgerow   (2)   Relevant part of the authorised
development   (3)   Important hedgerow     Shown as H1 on sheets 1 and 2 of
the hedgerow plan: hedgerow south of Yarmouth Road, within Blofield
Allotments, Blofield. Work Nos. 5, 6 and 12 No Shown as H2 on sheets 1 and 2
of the hedgerow plan: hedgerow west of Waterlow, within Blofield Allotments,
Blofield. Work No. 5, 6 and 12 No Shown as H3 on sheet 2 of the hedgerow plan:
hedgerow west of Waterlow, within Blofield Allotments, Blofield. Work No. 5, 6
and 12 No Shown as H4 on sheet 2 of the hedgerow plan: hedgerow west of
Waterlow, on the eastern boundary of Blofield Allotments, Blofield. Work No.
5, 6 and 12 Yes Shown as H5 on sheet 2 of the hedgerow plan: hawthorn being
the main species, parallel to and north of the A47 and south of High Noon
Lane, Blofield. Work Nos. 1, 2, 9 and 12 No Shown as H6 on sheet 2 of the
hedgerow plan: species poor hedgerow parallel to and south of the A47 and
north of Waterlow, Blofield. Work Nos. 1, 7 and 12 No Shown as H7 on sheet 2
of the hedgerow plan: species poor hedgerow which is dominated by hybrid
poplar south of the A47 and west of Waterlow, Blofield. Work Nos. 5, 6, 7, 10
and 12 Yes Shown as H8 on sheet 2 of the hedgerow plan: species rich intact
hedgerow comprising mainly hawthorn and blackthorn on the south side of the
existing A47 and east of Waterlow, Blofield. Work No. 13 Yes Shown as H9 on
sheet 3 of the hedgerow plan: isolated species poor hedgerow surrounded by
arable with a species poor margin including false oat and common couch grass,
south of the A47 and west of Lingwood Road. Work No. 19 Yes Shown as H10 on
sheet 4 of the hedgerow plan: Species rich hedge with false oat and Yorkshire
fog abundant margins including Lucerne and bird’s foot trefoil on the eastern
side of this hedge, separating arable fields perpendicular to existing A47,
south of the A47 and west of Lingwood Road. Work Nos. 1, 23 and 24 Yes Shown
as H11 on sheet 5 of the hedgerow plan: including a margin with common couch,
perennial rye grass, false oat grass and several forbs, parallel to the
existing A47 south of the existing A47 and west of Lingwood Lane. Work No. 23
Yes Shown as H12 on sheet 5 of the hedgerow plan: species rich hedgerow
located south of the A47 on the west side of Lingwood Lane. Work No. 1, 23, 25
and 27 Yes Shown as H13 on sheet 5 of the hedgerow plan: species poor hedge as
it includes less than five woody species, located south of the A47 on the
eastern side of Lingwood Lane, bordering an area of arable to the east. Work
Nos. 1, 25 and 27 Yes Shown as H14 on sheet 6 of the hedgerow plan: species
poor hedgerow with no standards located north of the A47 between Main Road and
west of South Walsham Road, North Burlingham. Work Nos. 28 and 31 No

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 37 and 47

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWERAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
the utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a
manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ” means—
in the case of an electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant
(as defined in the Electricity Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker;       in that case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes
or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply;
in the case of water undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to
or maintained by that utility undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and
in the case of a sewerage undertaker—     any drain or works vested in the
utility undertaker under the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and       any sewer
which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given
under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers and disposal works)  of that Act or
an agreement to adopt made under section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers,
drains or sewage disposal works, at future date)  of that Act,       and
includes a sludge main, disposal main (within the meaning of section 219
(general interpretation)  of that Act) or sewer outfall and any manholes,
ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any such sewer,
drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be
lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus;               “
functions ” includes powers and duties;         “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;         “plan” include all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and         “ utility undertaker ” means—       any licence holder
within the meaning of Part 1 (electricity supply) of the Electricity Act 1989;
a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 (gas supply) of the Gas Act
1986;       a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry Act
1991; and       a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1
(preliminary) of the Water Industry Act 1991,

for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus,
means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access
to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of
the utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 7 or the power of the undertaker to carry out works under paragraph
9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion or prohibition of the use of
or restriction of the use of any highway under the powers conferred by article
16 (temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of use of
streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such altered, diverted, prohibited or restricted
highway and to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any
such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to
maintain any apparatus which at the time of the alteration, diversion or
prohibition of use of or restriction of use was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  49  (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  49  (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  49
(arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (5)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

9.7

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
10 metres measured in any direction of any electricity apparatus, or involve
embankment works within 10 metres of any electricity apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to the utility undertaker under sub-paragraph  (1)  must be
detailed, include a method statement and describe—

9.7.a

the exact position of the works;

9.7.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.7.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

9.7.d

the position of all electricity apparatus; and

9.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to such
apparatus.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1) , that
value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  49  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2) any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1) .

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise of any proceedings necessary to resist
the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co- operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003;         “ the code
rights ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 3 of the electronic
communications code;         “ electronic communications apparatus ” has the
same meaning as in the electronic communications code;         “ the
electronic communications code ” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1
(electronic communications, networks and services) of Part 2 (networks,
services and the radio spectrum)   of the 2003 Act;         “ electronic
communications code network ” means—       so much of an electronic
communications network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic
communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 (application
of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and       an
electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;             “ electronic communications code operator ”
means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by
a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;         “ infrastructure system
” has the same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references
to providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7 of that code; and         “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 36 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertakers’ works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from the
authorised development—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of the authorised
development), or other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other reasonable expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any
such damage or interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
49  (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damage, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on
which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER

###### Application

18

18.1

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

18.2

Before commencement of any work set out in Schedule 1 to divert any apparatus
the undertaker will provide Anglian Water with a schedule of apparatus which
will be diverted as part of the authorised development setting out for each
piece of apparatus whether those works are to be undertaken under this
Schedule or under the 1991 Act and, where a diversion is to be carried out
partly under this Schedule and partly under the 1991 Act, details of which
part of the diversion is to be carried out under which power.

18.3

The undertaker may from time to time provide to Anglian Water amendments to
the schedule referred to in paragraph (2).

18.4

No amendment may be submitted under paragraph (3) in respect of apparatus
which is to be diverted as part of a work set out in Schedule 1, or which
comprises such a work, after that work has commenced.

###### Interpretation

19

In this part of this Schedule –

    “ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991;         “
alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable Anglian
Water to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than
previously;         “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited
(company number 02366656), whose registered office is Lancaster House,
Lancaster Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, PE29 6YJ;
“ apparatus ” means—       any works, mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of water supply
and sewerage;       any drain or works vested in Anglian Water under The Water
Industry Act 1991;       any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a
notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption of sewers
and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section
104 (agreements to adopt sewer, drain or sewage disposal works, at future
date) of that Act; and       includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus,

and for the purpose of this definition, where words are defined by section 219
(general interpretation) of the Water Industry Act 1991 they shall be taken to
have the same meaning.

    “ functions ” includes powers and duties;         “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land;         “ plan
” includes all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed.

###### On street apparatus

20

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

21

21.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), where Anglian
Water has apparatus in the street or accessed by virtue of that street, it has
the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Anglian
Water legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Anglian Water in respect of
such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any
right of the undertaker or of Anglian Water to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph  24  or the power of the undertaker to carry out
works under paragraph  26 .

21.2

Regardless of the temporary alteration, diversion or prohibition of the use of
or restriction of the use of any highway under the powers conferred by article
16 (temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of
streets), Anglian Water is at liberty at all times to take all necessary
access across any such altered, diverted, prohibited or restricted highway and
to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway
as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the alteration, diversion or prohibition of use
of or restriction of use was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

22

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

23

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

24

24.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that Anglian Water’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must
not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Anglian
Water to maintain that apparatus in that land must not (without the prior
written consent of Anglian Water) be extinguished, until—

24.1.a

alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(2)  to  (8) ; and

24.1.b

facilities and rights have been secured for that alternative apparatus in
accordance with paragraph 25.

24.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Anglian Water 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a
plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an undertaker
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to Anglian Water the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

24.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect
from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best endeavours to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

24.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Anglian Water and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  49
(arbitration).

24.5

Anglian Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article  49  (arbitration), and after the grant to Anglian Water of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

24.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if Anglian Water gives notice
in writing to the undertaker that it desires the undertaker to execute any
work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or removal of
apparatus in any land of the undertaker, or to the extent that Anglian Water
fails to proceed with that work in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5)  or the
undertaker and Anglian Water otherwise agree, that work, instead of being
executed by Anglian Water, must be executed by the undertaker without
unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable
satisfaction of Anglian Water.

24.7

Notice under sub-paragraph  (6)  that Anglian Water desires the undertaker to
execute any work, or part of any work, must be given within 14 days of
agreement under sub-paragraph  (4)  or, in default of agreement, within 14
days of the date of settlement by arbitration under sub-paragraph  (4) .

24.8

If Anglian Water fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide reasons for
its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be required to
make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal works under
sub-paragraph  (2)  within 28 days of receiving a notice of the required works
from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been approved. For
the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent” does not extend to the
actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain the sole
responsibility of Anglian Water or its contractors.

24.9

Whenever alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use best endeavours to comply with Anglian Water’s
reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to enable Anglian Water
to—

24.9.a

make network contingency arrangements; or

24.9.b

bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

25

25.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Anglian Water facilities and rights for the construction
and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights are to
be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the
undertaker and Anglian Water or in default of agreement settled by arbitration
in accordance with article  49  (arbitration).

25.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Anglian Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Anglian Water as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

25.3

Such facilities and rights as are set out in this paragraph are deemed to
include any statutory permits granted to the undertaker in respect of the
apparatus in question, whether under the Environmental Permitting Regulations
2010  or other legislation.

###### Retained apparatus

26

26.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus (or any means of access to it)
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
24(2) , the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a plan of the works to be
executed.

26.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by Anglian Water for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to watch and inspect the execution
of those works.

26.3

Any requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

26.4

If Anglian Water, in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  and  (6)  to (7) apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  24(2) .

26.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

26.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph  (3)  in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and will keep the impact of
those emergency works on Anglian Water’s apparatus, on the operation of its
water and sewerage network and on end-users of the services Anglian Water
provides to a minimum.

26.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , works are deemed to be in land near
Anglian Water’s apparatus (where it is a pipe) if those works fall within the
following distances measured from the medial line of such apparatus:

26.7.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

26.7.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres;

26.7.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 451 and 750 millimetres;
and

26.7.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres.

###### Expenses and costs

27

27.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Anglian Water all expenses reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this
Part of the Schedule.

27.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule that value being calculated after removal.

27.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

27.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

27.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration in accordance with article  49  (arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian Water by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

27.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

27.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

27.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

27.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian
Water in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Anglian Water any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

28

28.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs  22  or  24(2) ,
or by reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of Anglian
Water, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply
of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

28.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

28.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the undertaker, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption.

28.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Anglian Water on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Anglian Water or in
accordance with any requirement of Anglian Water or under its supervision does
not, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1)  unless Anglian Water fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and professional like manner or in a manner that does not accord with
the approved plan.

28.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

28.4

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) who,
if withholding such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

29

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Anglian Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  24(2)  or Anglian Water makes requirements for the protection
or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 26, the undertaker must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of Anglian Water’s undertaking and Anglian Water must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

30

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by Anglian Water but which does not appear on any statutory map
kept for the purpose by Anglian Water, it shall inform Anglian Water of the
existence and location of the apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

31

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

32

Any time period in which an action must be taken in this part of the Schedule
may be amended by written agreement between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF CADENT AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

33

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

34

In this Part of this Schedule—

    “ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;         “ apparatus ”
means any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic
protections, cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent
for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement
apparatus and such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that
becomes operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s
undertaking and includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged
or which gives or will give access to apparatus;         “ Cadent ” means
Cadent Gas Limited (company number 10080864), whose registered office is at
Pilot Way, Ansty, Coventry, CV7 9JU, and includes its successors in title or
any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 (introductory)
of the Gas Act 1986;         “ Cadent’s undertaking ” means the rights, duties
and obligations of Cadent Gas Limited as a public gas transporter within the
meaning of Section 7 (licensing of public gas transporters)  of the Gas Act
1986 (as amended by the Gas Act 1995);         “ commence ” has the same
meaning as in article 2 (1)  of this Order and “ commencement ” shall be
construed to have the same meaning save that for the purposes of this Part of
this Schedule the terms “ commence ” and “ commencement ” include any below
ground surveys, monitoring, work operations, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, the receipt and erection of
construction plant and equipment, and non-intrusive investigations for the
purpose of assessing ground conditions;         “ deed of consent ” means a
deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or new deed of grant
agreed between the undertaker and Cadent acting reasonably in order to vary or
replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other such interests so
as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out,
maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms
of this Part of this Schedule;         “facilities and rights” for
construction and for maintenance include any appropriate working areas
required to reasonably and safely undertake that construction or maintenance,
and any necessary rights of access;         “ functions ” includes powers and
duties;         “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by Cadent
(such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the
necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence event;         “ ground
monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets
out the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of
land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be monitored,
the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of ground
subsidence which, if exceeded, requires the undertaker to submit for Cadent’s
approval a ground mitigation scheme;         “ ground subsidence event ” means
any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in the
ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground
monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme;         “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land;         “maintain” and “ maintenance ” for the purposes of
this Part of this Schedule have effect as if Cadent’s existing apparatus was
authorised development and as if the term maintain includes protect and use,
improve, landscape, preserve, decommission, refurbish or replace;
“plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method
statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other
documents that are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe
and assess the works to be executed;         “ rights ” includes restrictive
covenants and, in relation to decommissioned apparatus, the surrender of
rights, release of liabilities and transfer of decommissioned apparatus; and
“ specified works ” means any of the authorised development or activities
(including maintenance) undertaken in association with the authorised
development which—       will or may be situated over, or within 15 metres
measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of which has not been
required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph  38(2)  (removal of apparatus)
or otherwise; or       may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the
removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under sub-paragraph
38(2)  (removal of apparatus) or otherwise.

###### On Street apparatus

35

35.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act, except for—

35.1.a

paragraphs 36 (apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets), 41 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent), 42 (expenses) and 43 (indemnity); and

35.1.b

where sub-paragraph  (2)  applies, paragraphs 39 (removal of apparatus) and 34
(facilities and rights for alternative apparatus).

35.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing adopted public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be
carried out under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

35.3

Paragraph 42 (expenses) does not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

35.3.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

35.3.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and Cadent in such
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

36

36.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if Cadent has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street Cadent is entitled to the
same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Cadent, or procure the granting
to Cadent of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Cadent in respect of
such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or
highway, but nothing in this paragraph shall affect any right of the
undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 39   (removal of apparatus).

36.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of use of
any street under the powers of article 16 (temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition and restriction of use of streets), Cadent will be at liberty at
all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute
and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as it would
have been entitled to do immediately before such temporary alteration,
diversion or restriction of use in respect of any apparatus which at the time
of the stopping up or diversion was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

37

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Acquisition of land

38

38.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
or contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any interest in land or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest in land
of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

38.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) , prior
to the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development
(or in such other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker) that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule
that will cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other
legal or land interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into
such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
Cadent and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less
favourable on the whole to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it
will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent
to and entering into of such deeds and variations by all other third parties
with an interest in the land at that time who are affected by such authorised
development or maintenance thereof.

38.3

Where there is any inconsistency or duplication between the provisions set out
in this Part of this Schedule relating to the relocation or removal of
apparatus, including but not limited to the payment of costs and expenses
relating to such relocation or removal of apparatus and the provisions of any
existing easement, rights, agreements and licences granted, used, enjoyed or
exercised by Cadent and other enactments relied upon by Cadent as of right or
other use in relation to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule
prevail.

38.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph 41 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent) or any other paragraph of this Part of this
Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under sub-paragraph  (1)
.

38.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph  (1)  that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must accept a
surrender of any existing easement or other interest of Cadent in such
decommissioned apparatus and release Cadent from all liabilities in respect of
such de-commissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

38.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 39 (removal of
apparatus) do not apply, the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

38.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

38.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

39

39.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 38 (acquisition of
land), the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus
is placed, that apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed under this
Part of this Schedule and any right of Cadent to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, is in operation, and the facilities and rights referred to in
sub-paragraph  (2)  have been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of
Cadent and in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (2)  to  (5)  inclusive.

39.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph  39(1)  (facilities
and rights for alternative apparatus)) the necessary facilities and rights—

39.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus; and

39.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

39.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2) , in the land in which the alternative
apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on
receipt of a written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such
steps as are reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to assist the
undertaker in obtaining the necessary facilities and rights in the land in
which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed save that this obligation
does not extend to the requirement for Cadent to use its compulsory purchase
powers to this end unless it (in its absolute discretion) elects to so do.

39.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker.

39.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) , then proceed
without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus
required by the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the
provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

40

40.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed unless otherwise agreed by Cadent.

40.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph  (1)  in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed, then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights
are subject in the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 49 (arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Cadent as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

41

41.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

41.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph  (1)  must include a
method statement and describe—

41.2.a

the exact position of the works;

41.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

41.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

41.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

41.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

41.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

41.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

41.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph  (3) —

41.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (5) ; and

41.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph  (1) .

41.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

41.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

41.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph  (1)  (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

41.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph  (4) (a) , and Cadent will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

41.7

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

41.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement,   paragraphs 33 to 35 and 38   to 40 apply as
if the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under
paragraph 39(2)   (removal of apparatus).

41.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan (and
ground monitoring scheme if required).

41.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

41.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

41.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line
with   paragraph 42   (expenses).

41.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must
comply with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph  (4) (a)  insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

41.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

42

42.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand, all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
reasonably incurred by Cadent in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development including without
limitation—

42.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a consequence of Cadent—

42.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 39(3)   (removal of apparatus) if it elects to do so; or

42.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

42.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

42.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

42.1.d

the approval of plans;

42.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

42.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

42.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub- paragraph 41(6)   (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent).

42.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

42.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

42.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

42.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 49 (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will be
reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances (or it would be unlawful due to a statutory or
regulatory change) to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same
capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

42.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

42.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

42.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

42.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works include
the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more
than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial
benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary
course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

43

43.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development (including works carried out under article 22
(protective work to buildings)) by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any goods, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

43.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Cadent, the
cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

43.1.b

indemnify Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty, compensation or costs properly incurred by, paid by or
recovered from Cadent, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Cadent becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other
than arising from any default of Cadent.

43.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance
with any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision including under any
watching brief will not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)  applies) excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph  (1)
unless Cadent fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care
and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that
does not accord with the approved plan.

43.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

43.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;
and

43.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by Cadent in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 10 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order).

43.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable at the commencement of the
relevant works referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

43.4

Cadent must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise must,
unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme,
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

44

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise or by agreement in
writing between Cadent and the undertaker, nothing in this Part of this
Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any apparatus laid
or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order
is made.

###### Co-operation

45

45.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under   paragraph 39(2)   (removal of apparatus) or Cadent makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under   paragraph
41   (retained apparatus: protection of Cadent), the undertaker must use its
best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

45.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

46

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 38(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative rights and means of access to such apparatus as will enable Cadent
to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

47

Save for differences or disputes arising under   paragraphs 39(2) and (4)
(removal of apparatus) and  41 (11)  (retained apparatus: protection of
Cadent) any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Cadent
under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance
with article  49  (arbitration).

###### Notices

48

Notwithstanding article  48  (service of notices) any plans submitted to
Cadent by the undertaker pursuant to   paragraph 41(1)   (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent) must be sent by email to Cadent Gas Limited Plant
Protection at plantprotection@cadentgas.com as well as by post to Plant
Protection, Cadent Gas Limited, Brick Kiln Street, Hinckley, Leicestershire,
LE10 0NA, or such other address as Cadent may from time to time appoint
instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

  DOCUMENTS, ETC. TO BE CERTIFIED

Article 47

##### ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT

      (1)   Document   (2)   Document Reference   (3)   Revision
Environmental Statement - Chapter 1: Introduction TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 1
Environmental Statement - Chapter 2: The Proposed Scheme TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev
2 Environmental Statement - Chapter 3: Assessment of Alternatives
TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Chapter 4: Environmental
Assessment Methodology TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Chapter 5: Air Quality TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Chapter 6: Cultural Heritage TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 3 Environmental Statement -
Chapter 7: Landscape and Visual Effects TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 8: Biodiversity TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 2 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 9: Geology and Soils TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Chapter 10: Materials Assets and Waste TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 1
Environmental Statement - Chapter 11: Noise and Vibration TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev
1 Environmental Statement - Chapter 12: Population and Human Health
TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 2 Environmental Statement - Chapter 13: Road Drainage and
Water Environment TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Chapter 14:
Climate TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 2 Environmental Statement - Chapter 15:
Cumulative Effects Assessment TR010040/APP/6.1 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 4.1 Scoping Opinion Responses TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 5.1 Air Quality Dispersion Modelling Process
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 5.2 Air Quality
Verification and Model Adjustment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 5.3 Air Quality Receptor Results TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.1 Cultural Heritage Information
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Appendix 6.2 Geophysical and
Metal Detector Survey TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 6.3 Geophysical Survey TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement
- Appendix 6.4 Archaeological Evaluation TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 7.1 Planning Policy Context TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.2 Landscape and Visual Assessment
Criteria TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.3 ZTV and
Verified Photomontage Methodology TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 7.4 Landscape Character Areas TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.5 Visual Receptors TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1
Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.6 Representative Viewpoints
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 7.7 Arboricultural
Impact Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Appendix
7.8 Lighting Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 8.1 Legislation and policy framework TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.2 DMRB biodiversity evaluation assessment
methodology TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.3 2018
Bat survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
8.4 2018 Breeding bird survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 8.5 Wintering bird survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.6 Badger survey report TR010040/APP/6.2
Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.7 Terrestrial invertebrate report
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.8 Great Crested
Newt report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.9
Reptile survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 8.10 2020 Bat survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 8.11 Bat activity crossing point survey report
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 8.12 Breeding Bird
and Barn Owl survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 8.13 Botanical Survey report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 9.1 Contaminated Land Preliminary Risk Assessment
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 10.1 Legislation and
Policy Framework TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
10.2 Waste Disposal Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement
- Appendix 10.3 Outline Site Waste Management Plan TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1
Environmental Statement - Appendix 10.4 Minerals Impact Assessment
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.1 Glossary of
Terms TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.2
Legislation and Policy Framework TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 11.3 Baseline Noise Survey TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1
Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.4 Noise Sensitive Receptors
TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 11.5 Construction
Noise Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix
13.1 Flood Risk Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1 Environmental Statement -
Appendix 13.2 Drainage Strategy TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 1 Environmental Statement
- Appendix 13.3 Groundwater Assessment TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Appendix 14.1 Carbon Assessment Report TR010040/APP/6.2 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Appendix 15.1 CEA Stage 2 Screening TR010040/APP/6.2
Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Appendix 15.2 CEA Short List TR010040/APP/6.2
Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figures 1.1 to 2.1 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Figures 5.1 to 5.9 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Figures 6.1 to 6.4 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Figure 6.5 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Figure 6.6 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Figures 7.1 to 7.5 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figure
7.6.1 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figure 7.6.2
TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figure 7.6.3 TR010040/APP/6.3
Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figure 7.6.4 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0
Environmental Statement - Figure 7.6.5 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental
Statement - Figure 7.6.6 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement -
Figure 7.6.7 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figures 7.6.8 to
7.6.9 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figures 7.6.10 to
7.6.13 TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figures 8.1 to 9.1
TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Figures 11.1 to 11.10
TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0 Environmental Statement - Figures 12.1 to 12.3
TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 1 Environmental Statement - Figures 13.1 to 15.1
TR010040/APP/6.3 Rev 0

##### OTHER DOCUMENTS

      (1)   Document   (2)   Document Reference   (3)   Revision     Book of
reference TR010040/APP/4.3 Rev 7 Classification of roads plans
TR010040/APP/2.12 Rev 0 De-trunking plans TR010040/APP/2.10 Rev 0 EMP (First
Iteration) TR010040/APP/7.7 Rev 6 Engineering drawings and sections
TR010040/APP/2.5 Rev 1 General arrangement plans TR010040/APP/2.6 Rev 4
Hedgerow plan TR010040/APP/2.9 Rev 1 Land plans TR010040/APP/2.2 Rev 2
Masterplan TR010040/APP/6.8 Rev 4 Outline traffic management plan
TR010040/APP/7.8 Rev 2 Report to Inform Habitats Regulations Assessment
TR010040/APP/6.9 Rev 3 Rights of way and access plans TR010040/APP/2.4 Rev 4
Traffic regulation plans TR010040/APP/2.11 Rev 0 Works plans TR010040/APP/2.3
Rev 2

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order authorises National Highways Limited to improve the A47 between
Blofield and North Burlingham in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.

The Order permits National Highways Limited to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

A copy of the plans, engineering drawings and sections, book of reference and
environmental statement and report mentioned in this Order and certified in
accordance with article  47  (certification of documents, etc.) may be
inspected free of charge during working hours at National Highways Limited,
Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

