Title: The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-04-04
Description: These Regulations come into force on 31 December 2022 and apply in relation to Wales.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/1350

## The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2022

    Rating And Valuation, Wales

  Made   14 December 2022

  Coming into force   31 December 2022

      The Welsh Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
power conferred on the Secretary of State by sections 58(1), (2), (3), (4),
(5), (6), (7) and (10) and 143(1) of the Local Government Finance Act 1988
and now vested in them .       A draft of these Regulations was laid before,
and approved by a resolution of Senedd Cymru, in accordance with section
143(4) of that Act .           In accordance with section 58(9) of that Act,
the Welsh Ministers have had regard to the object of securing (so far as
practicable) that the aggregate amount payable to the Welsh Ministers and all
billing authorities by way of non-domestic rates as regards the financial
years falling within the relevant period does not exceed that which the Welsh
Ministers consider would be likely to be payable apart from these Regulations.

### Preliminary: general

#### Title, commencement and application

1

1.1

The title of these Regulations is the Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts)
(Wales) Regulations 2022.

1.2

These Regulations come into force on 31 December 2022  and apply in relation
to Wales.

1.3

These Regulations apply in relation to the period beginning on 1 April 2023
and ending on 31 March 2028 (“ the relevant period ”).

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the Act ” (“  y Ddeddf ”) means the Local Government Finance Act 1988; “
base liability ” (“ BL ”) (“  rhwymedigaeth sylfaenol ”, “ BL ”) is the amount
calculated in accordance with regulation 4; “ central list ” (  “rhestr
ganolog” ) means a list compiled and maintained in accordance with section 52
of the Act ; “ chargeable day ” (“  diwrnod y codir swm ynglŷn ag ef ”), in
relation to occupied hereditaments shown in a local list, has the meaning
given in section 43(3) of the Act, in relation to unoccupied hereditaments
shown in a local list, has the meaning given in section 45(3) of the Act, and
in relation to hereditaments shown in a central list, has the meaning given in
section 54(3) of the Act; “ defined hereditament ” (“  hereditament
diffiniedig ”) has the meaning given in regulation 3; “ local list ” (“
rhestr leol ”) means a list compiled and maintained in accordance with section
41 of the Act ; “ notional chargeable amount ” (“ NCA ”) (“  swm tybiannol a
godir ”, “ NCA ”) is the amount calculated in accordance with regulations 6
and 7; “ relevant day ” (“  diwrnod perthnasol ”) is a chargeable day falling
within the relevant period; “ relevant period ” (“  cyfnod perthnasol ”) has
the meaning given in regulation 1(3).

#### Defined hereditament

3

A hereditament is a defined hereditament in respect of a relevant day if it is
shown in a local list or in a central list on—

3.a

31 March 2023,

3.b

the relevant day, and

3.c

each day, if any, falling after 31 March 2023 and before the relevant day.

### Preliminary: calculations

#### Base liability

4

4.1

Where, on 31 March 2023, section 43(4B)(b) of the Act  applies to a defined
hereditament, the base liability (“ BL ”) for that defined hereditament is
calculated by applying the formula—

A × 0.535 E

4.2

In all other cases, the BL for a defined hereditament is calculated by
applying the formula—

A × 0.535

4.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

A is the rateable value shown for the defined hereditament in a local list or
in a central list on 31 March 2023, and E is the amount of E which applies to
the defined hereditament on 31 March 2023 in accordance with the Non-Domestic
Rating (Small Business Relief) (Wales) Order 2017 .

#### Notional chargeable amount

5

The notional chargeable amount (“ NCA ”) for a defined hereditament is
calculated in accordance with regulations 6 and 7.

6

6.1

Where, on 1 April 2023, section 43(4B)(b) of the Act applies to a defined
hereditament, the NCA for that defined hereditament is calculated by applying
the formula—

A × B E

6.2

In all other cases, the NCA for a defined hereditament is calculated by
applying the formula—

A × B

6.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

A is the rateable value shown for the defined hereditament in a local list or
in a central list on 1 April 2023, B is the non-domestic rating multiplier for
the financial year beginning on 1 April 2023 calculated in accordance with
paragraph 4B of Schedule 7 to the Act , and E is the amount of E which applies
to the defined hereditament on 1 April 2023 in accordance with the Non-
Domestic Rating (Small Business Relief) (Wales) Order 2017.

7

7.1

This regulation applies to a defined hereditament where for a day after 1
April 2023 the rateable value shown in a local list or in a central list for
the defined hereditament is different to that shown for it in a local list or
in a central list on 1 April 2023.

7.2

From the day on which the change in rateable value has effect, regulation 6
has effect as regards the defined hereditament with the following amendments—

7.2.a

in paragraph (1), for “1 April 2023”, substitute  “the day on which the change
in rateable value has effect” , and

7.2.b

in paragraph (3), for the definition of ‘A’. substitute  “A is the rateable
value shown for the defined hereditament in a local list or in a central list
on the day on which the change in rateable value has effect  , but where
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 3 of Schedule 5A (improvement relief)
to the Act applies in respect of a hereditament (as the case may be), A is
that rateable value minus G. ” .

7.3

In paragraph (2)(b) above, G is the amount prescribed, or calculated in
accordance with provision prescribed, by the Welsh Ministers under paragraph
10(7) of Schedule 4ZA or paragraph 6(6) of Schedule 5A to the Act (as the case
may be).

### Cases to which the prescribed rules apply

8

For the purpose of section 58(2) of the Act, the cases are those that fall
within the descriptions prescribed in regulation 9, and do not fall within the
descriptions prescribed in regulation 10.

#### Prescribed descriptions

9

A defined hereditament where—

9.a

the NCA is greater than the sum calculated by applying the formula—

BL + 100

, and

9.b

on the relevant day, the occupier of the hereditament is the same person as
the occupier on 31 March 2023.

#### Exceptions

10

A defined hereditament where on the relevant day—

10.a

the chargeable amount would otherwise be zero under   paragraph 2 of Schedule
4ZB to   the Act , or

10.b

an apportionment under section 44A(1) of the Act  applies to the hereditament
and has effect in relation to the chargeable amount.

### Prescribed rules

#### Rules for finding the chargeable amount

11

For the purpose of   section 58(3)  of the Act, the chargeable amount for a
defined hereditament to which regulation 8 applies (cases that fall within the
prescribed description) is to be found in accordance with the rules prescribed
in regulations 12 to 16.

12

The chargeable amount for a relevant day is the amount calculated in
accordance with section 43 , 45  or 54  of the Act as appropriate, less the
amount calculated under whichever of regulations 14 to 16 applies.

13

If the result of reducing the chargeable amount in accordance with the rules
in regulations 14 to 16 is to produce a negative figure, the chargeable amount
is zero.

#### Financial year commencing on 1 April 2023

14

In the financial year commencing on 1 April 2023, the chargeable amount is
reduced by an amount calculated by applying the formula—

NCA - B L × 0.67 366

#### Financial year commencing on 1 April 2024

15

In the financial year commencing on 1 April 2024, the chargeable amount is
reduced by an amount calculated by applying the formula—

NCA - B L × 0.34 365

#### Financial years commencing on 1 April 2025, 1 April 2026 and 1 April 2027

16

In the financial years commencing on 1 April 2025, 1 April 2026 and 1 April
2027 the chargeable amount is reduced by zero.

### Revocation

17

The Non-Domestic Rating (Chargeable Amounts) (Wales) Regulations 2016  are
revoked.

Rebecca Evans Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the Welsh
Ministers 14 December 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations come into force on 31 December 2022 and apply in relation
to Wales.

  These Regulations prescribe rules to be used to find the chargeable amount
for cases which fall within the descriptions prescribed in the Regulations.

  The prescribed rules apply to a chargeable day falling within the period of
five years beginning on 1 April 2023 and ending on 31 March 2028 (“ the
relevant period ”). A chargeable day is defined in regulation 2.

  The prescribed rules apply to defined hereditaments. A defined hereditament
is a hereditament shown in a local list or in a central list on 31 March 2023,
the relevant day and every day between. Where a hereditament is removed from a
local list or a central list, subject to any appeals, the prescribed rules do
not apply to the hereditament from the day on which the removal took effect.
Such a removal would not impact the application of the prescribed rules to the
hereditament prior to the day on which the removal took effect.

  The prescribed rules reduce the increase in a ratepayer’s liability as a
result of the 2023 revaluation. Regulation 4 provides the calculations for the
chargeable amount for the hereditament on 31 March 2023 (the base liability).
This is the day before the new lists compiled on 1 April 2023 have effect.
0.535 is the non-domestic rating multiplier calculated for the financial year
2022-23 under paragraph 3B of Schedule 7 to the Act.

  Regulation 6 provides the formula for finding the notional chargeable amount
(“ NCA ”). This is the chargeable amount which would apply for the defined
hereditament on 1 April 2023 if the prescribed rules did not apply. There are
two formulae in regulation 6 to reflect the possibility that the prescribed
rules apply to ratepayers in receipt of small business rate relief and
ratepayers who do not receive such relief.

  The formula to find the NCA uses the rateable value, non-domestic rating
multiplier and, where necessary, E, as they are on 1 April 2023. E is the
figure prescribed by the Welsh Ministers in the Non-Domestic Rating (Small
Business Relief) (Wales) Order 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1229 ) (W. 293) which applies
to the hereditament in question on 1 April 2023. The fact that the relevant
day for which the chargeable amount is being calculated may be later than 1
April 2023 does not change these figures. This is because the reduction in
liability is based on a proportion of the increase in liability between 31
March 2023 and 1 April 2023 due to the compilation of the new lists.

  Regulation 7 modifies regulation 6 in the event that a change to the
rateable value for a hereditament takes effect during the relevant period but
from a day after 1 April 2023. It operates so that the NCA, used for the
purposes of regulations 8 and 9(a) and the formulae in regulations 14 and 15,
is calculated using the new rateable value rather than the rateable value on 1
April 2023. The non-domestic rating multiplier and E will remain as they were
on 1 April 2023.

  Part 3 prescribes the descriptions of cases to which the prescribed rules
apply. Regulations 9 and 10 both have to be read in conjunction with
regulation 8. Regulation 9(a) provides that for the prescribed rules to apply,
the base liability must have increased by more than £300. Regulation 9(b)
requires the same person to have occupied the defined hereditament in order to
be eligible for a reduction. Where occupation of the hereditament changes on 1
April 2023 or at any later date during the relevant period, the prescribed
rules do not apply.

  Regulation 10 describes cases where the prescribed rules do not apply.
Regulation 10(a) addresses the possibility of an unoccupied hereditament
falling within the cases in section 45A(2) or (3) of the Act (charities and
registered community amateur sports clubs). In such a case, the ratepayer’s
liability would be zero in accordance with section 45A(1) of the Act.
Regulation 10(b) addresses the situation where a part of a hereditament is
unoccupied and the billing authority has required the valuation officer to
apportion the rateable value of the hereditament between the occupied and
unoccupied parts of the hereditament under section 44A(1) of the Act. The
prescribed rules do not apply to such a case. No reduction in chargeable
amount is therefore available where such an apportionment applies to a defined
hereditament and has effect in relation to the chargeable amount.

  Where a defined hereditament is a case which falls within all of the
descriptions prescribed in regulation 9 and does not fall within the
descriptions in regulation 10, the rules prescribed in regulations 12 to 16
apply. These rules are to be used to find the chargeable amount for a
chargeable day.

  The first step under regulation 12 is to calculate the chargeable amount for
the hereditament under section 43 of the Act for occupied hereditaments,
section 45 of the Act for non-occupied hereditaments and section 54 of the Act
for hereditaments shown in the central list. The second step is to reduce that
amount by the amounts calculated under whichever of regulations 14 to 16
applies.

  Regulations 14 and 15 provide a phased reduction in chargeable amounts
during the period beginning on 1 April 2023 and ending on 31 March 2025. In
the first year, the chargeable amount is reduced by an amount equal to 67% of
the increase in liability between 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2023. In the
second year the chargeable amount is reduced by 34% of the increase in
liability between 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2023. The reduction in chargeable
amount is calculated for each relevant day, with the figure 366 used in
regulation 14 to reflect that 2024 is a leap year. Regulation 16 provides that
during the period beginning on 1 April 2025 and ending on 31 March 2028 the
chargeable amount is that found under section 43 of the Act for occupied
hereditaments, section 45 of the Act for non-occupied hereditaments, and
section 54 for hereditaments shown in the central list (i.e. there is no
reduction for those financial years).

  Regulation 13 ensures that the prescribed rules do not reduce the chargeable
amount to below zero.

  The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory
Impact Assessments was considered in relation to these Regulations. As a
result, a regulatory impact assessment has been prepared as to the likely
costs and benefits of complying with these Regulations. A copy can be obtained
from the Local Government Finance Policy Division, Welsh Government, Cathays
Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ.

