Title: The Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-11-13
Description: These Regulations make provision for Adult Disability Payment which is a type of disability assistance given by the Scottish Ministers under section 31 of the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/54

## The Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Scotland) Regulations 2022

Social Security

Made 9th February 2022

Coming into force 21st March 2022

The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 13(3), 31(2), 36(2), 41(4)(a), 43(5), 51(1), 52
and 95 of the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018 , and all other powers
enabling them to do so. In accordance with section 96(2) of that Act, a draft
of these Regulations has been laid before and approved by resolution of the
Scottish Parliament. In accordance with section 97(2) of that Act, the
Scottish Ministers have informed the Scottish Commission on Social Security of
their proposals, notified the Scottish Parliament that they have done so and
made their proposals publicly available by such means as they consider
appropriate.

### Introductory and interpretation

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Disability Assistance for Working Age
People (Scotland) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 21 March 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

“ the 2018 Act ” means the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018, “ Adult
Disability Payment ” means disability assistance for adults given in
accordance with these Regulations, “aid or appliance”— means any object or
device which— the individual needs to be able to perform an activity, and
improves, provides or replaces the individual’s impaired physical or mental
function, includes an object or device which a person without a disability
might choose to use for the same function, in relation to managing toilet
needs includes the use of incontinence pads, and includes a prosthesis, “
armed forces independence payment ” means the disability benefit paid in
accordance with article 24A of the Armed Forces and Reserve Forces
(Compensation Scheme) Order 2011 , “ assessment ” means an assessment as
described in section 13(2) of the 2018 Act, “ Attendance Allowance ” means an
attendance allowance under section 64 of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992 , “ authorised provider of vehicles ” means a supplier of
vehicles for persons with disabilities approved under an accreditation scheme
run by the Scottish Ministers, “ award ” means that a determination has been
made that an individual is entitled to be given assistance under section 24 of
the 2018 Act in accordance with these Regulations, and cognate expressions are
to be construed accordingly, “ care home ” means an establishment which
provides a care home service as defined in paragraph 2 of schedule 12 of the
Public Services Reform (Scotland) Act 2010  and includes a residential
educational establishment, “ Child Disability Payment ” means disability
assistance for children and young people given in accordance with the
Disability Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations
2021 , “ daily living component ” means the daily living component of Adult
Disability Payment within the meaning of regulation 5, “ descriptor ” means a
descriptor in column 2 of the tables in Parts 2 and 3 of schedule 1,
“determination” and “determination of entitlement” have the meaning of
“determination of entitlement” in section 25 of the 2018 Act, “ Disability
Living Allowance ” means a disability living allowance under— section 71 of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 , or section 71 of the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits (Northern Ireland) Act 1992 , ... “
immigration rules ” means the rules laid before the United Kingdom Parliament
under section 3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 , “ legal detention ” means
detention in legal custody within the meaning of section 295 of the Criminal
Procedure (Scotland) Act 1995 , ... “ mobility component ” means the mobility
component of Adult Disability Payment within the meaning of regulation 6,
“needs” where used in relation to an aid or appliance, or supervision,
prompting or assistance from another person, means that it is reasonably
required, though it may not have been available or provided,   “ Pension Age
Disability Payment ” means disability assistance for older people given in
accordance with the Disability Assistance for Older People (Scotland)
Regulations 2024,   “Personal Independence Payment”— means personal
independence payment under— Part 4 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 , or article
82 of the Welfare Reform (Northern Ireland) Order 2015 , and includes a
concessionary payment made in lieu of personal independence payment under
arrangements by the Secretary of State with the consent of the Treasury, “
previous award ” means an award of either or both components of Adult
Disability Payment to which an individual has ceased to be entitled,   “
qualifying services ” means accommodation, board and personal care,   “
relevant date ” means the date referred to in regulation 13 or, where
applicable, regulation 14 or 23, “ relevant EU Regulation ” means— one of the
following Regulations— Council Regulation  (EC) No 1408/71  of 14 June 1971
on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to self-
employed persons and to members of their families moving within the Community,
Regulation  (EC) No 883/2004  of the European Parliament and of the Council of
29 April 2004  on the coordination of social security systems, or in relation
to an individual to whom the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters
set out in the schedule of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and
Industrial Injuries (Gibraltar) Order 1974  applies, a Regulation mentioned in
paragraph (a) of this definition as it forms part of domestic law by virtue of
section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 , “ residential
educational establishment ” means a care home which provides education or
training except for one where the costs of any qualifying services are borne
wholly or partly out of public or local funds by virtue of— section 485 of the
Education Act 1996  or section 14 of the Education Act 2002  (which relate to
grants in aid of educational services), sections 49 or 73 of the Education
(Scotland) Act 1980  (which relate respectively to the power of education
authorities to assist persons to take advantage of educational facilities and
the powers of the Secretary of State to make grants to education authorities
and others), section 65 of the Further and Higher Education Act 1992 ,
sections 39 or 40 of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017  or sections 4
or 11 of the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 2005  (which relate
respectively to the funding of further education and the administration of
funds), or section 22 of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998  (new
arrangements for giving financial support to students), “ short-term
assistance ” means short-term assistance given in accordance with Part 1 of
schedule 2 of these Regulations, and “ week ” means a period of 7 days.

### Disability Assistance for Working Age People

#### Overview

3

3.1

An individual is entitled to Adult Disability Payment in accordance with these
Regulations if the individual meets the eligibility rules in—

3.1.a

regulation 4 (entitlement to other benefits),

3.1.b

regulations 15 to 21 (residence and presence conditions),

3.1.c

regulation 22 (age criteria), and

3.1.d

one or more of the following—

3.1.d.i

regulation 5 (daily living component),

3.1.d.ii

regulation 6 (mobility component),

3.1.d.iii

regulation 26 (entitlement under special rules for terminal illness).

3.2

Adult Disability Payment is to consist of a daily living component and a
mobility component.

3.3

There are 2 weekly rates of the daily living component and 2 weekly rates of
the mobility component and those rates are specified in regulation 34 (amount
and form of Adult Disability Payment).

#### Entitlement to other benefits

4

An individual is not entitled to Adult Disability Payment while they are
entitled to—

4.a

armed forces independence payment,

4.b

Attendance Allowance,

4.ba

Pension Age Disability Payment,

4.c

Child Disability Payment,

4.d

Disability Living Allowance, or

4.e

Personal Independence Payment.

### Eligibility: Daily Living Component and Mobility Component

#### Daily Living Component

5

5.1

An individual may be awarded the daily living component at either the standard
rate or the enhanced rate.

5.2

An individual is entitled to the daily living component at the standard rate
if—

5.2.a

the individual’s ability to carry out daily living activities is limited by
the individual’s physical or mental condition or conditions, and

5.2.b

the individual meets the required period condition in accordance with
regulation 11.

5.3

An individual is entitled to the daily living component at the enhanced rate
if—

5.3.a

the individual’s ability to carry out daily living activities is severely
limited by the individual’s physical or mental condition or conditions, and

5.3.b

the individual meets the required period condition in accordance with
regulation 11.

5.4

For the purpose of these Regulations—

5.4.a

“daily living activities” are the activities set out in column 1 of the table
in Part 2 of schedule 1, and “ a daily living activity ” is to be construed
accordingly,

5.4.b

“ the standard rate ” in relation to the daily living component means the
weekly rate of the daily living component set in regulation 34(1)(a),

5.4.c

“ the enhanced rate ” in relation to the daily living component means the
weekly rate of the daily living component set in regulation 34(1)(b),

5.5

Whether a person has limited or severely limited ability to carry out daily
living activities is to be determined in accordance with regulation 8 (scoring
for daily living activities).

#### Mobility Component

6

6.1

An individual may be awarded the mobility component at either the standard
rate or the enhanced rate.

6.2

An individual is entitled to the mobility component at the standard rate if—

6.2.a

the individual’s ability to carry out mobility activities is limited by the
individual’s physical or mental condition or conditions, and

6.2.b

the individual meets the required period condition in accordance with
regulation 12.

6.3

A individual is entitled to the mobility component at the enhanced rate if—

6.3.a

the individual’s ability to carry out mobility activities is severely limited
by the individual’s physical or mental condition or conditions, and

6.3.b

the individual meets the required period condition in accordance with
regulation 12.

6.4

For the purpose of these Regulations—

6.4.a

“mobility activities” are the activities set out in column 1 of the table in
Part 3 of schedule 1, and “ a mobility activity ” is to be construed
accordingly,

6.4.b

“ the standard rate ” in relation to the mobility component means the weekly
rate of the mobility component set in regulation 34(2)(a),

6.4.c

“ the enhanced rate ” in relation to the mobility component means the weekly
rate of the mobility component set in regulation 34(2)(b),

6.5

Whether a person has limited or severely limited ability to carry out mobility
activities is to be determined in accordance with regulation 9 (scoring for
mobility activities).

#### Determination of ability to carry out activities

7

7.1

An individual’s ability to carry out a daily living activity or mobility
activity is to be determined—

7.1.a

on the basis of the individual’s ability whilst wearing or using any aid or
appliance which the individual normally wears or uses, or

7.1.b

as if the individual were wearing or using any aid or appliance which the
individual could reasonably be expected to wear or use.

7.2

An individual’s ability to carry out an activity is to be determined—

7.2.a

by reference to the descriptors for the activity set out in column 2 of the
table in Part 2 of schedule 1  or, as the case may be, column 2 of the table
in Part 3 of schedule 1 , and

7.2.b

on the basis of which descriptor applies for the individual to be able to
carry out the activity—

7.2.b.i

safely,

7.2.b.ii

to an acceptable standard,

7.2.b.iii

repeatedly, and

7.2.b.iv

within a reasonable time period.

7.3

In this regulation—

7.3.a

“ safely ” means in a manner unlikely to cause harm to the individual or to
another person, either during or after completion of the activity, with
consideration given to—

7.3.a.i

the likelihood of harm, and

7.3.a.ii

the severity of the consequences of that harm,

7.3.b

“ to an acceptable standard ” means to a reasonable standard for the activity,
taking account of the impact on the individual of carrying out the activity to
that standard,

7.3.c

“ repeatedly ” means as often as the activity is reasonably required to be
completed, and

7.3.d

“ reasonable time period ” means no more than twice as long as the maximum
period that an individual without a physical or mental condition or conditions
which limits that individual’s ability to carry out the activity in question
would normally take to complete that activity.

#### Scoring for daily living activities

8

8.1

The score an individual obtains in relation to daily living activities is
determined by adding together the number of points (if any) awarded for each
activity listed in column 1 of the table in Part 2 of schedule 1.

8.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), the number of points awarded to an
individual for each activity listed in column 1 of the table is the number
shown in column 3 of the table against whichever of the descriptors set out in
column 2 of the table for the activity applies to the individual by virtue of
regulation 10.

8.3

For the purposes of regulation 5, an individual has—

8.3.a

limited ability to carry out daily living activities where the individual
obtains a score of at least 8 points and no more than 11 points in relation to
daily living activities,

8.3.b

severely limited ability to carry out daily living activities where the
individual obtains a score of at least 12 points in relation to daily living
activities.

#### Scoring for mobility activities

9

9.1

The score an individual obtains in relation to mobility activities is
determined by adding together the number of points (if any) awarded for each
activity listed in column 1 of the table in Part 3 of schedule 1.

9.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), the number of points awarded to an
individual for each activity listed in column 1 of the table is the number
shown in column 3 of the table against whichever of the descriptors set out in
column 2 of the table for the activity applies to the individual by virtue of
regulation 10.

9.3

For the purposes of regulation 6, an individual has—

9.3.a

limited ability to carry out mobility activities where the individual obtains
a score of at least 8 points and no more than 11 points in relation to
mobility activities,

9.3.b

severely limited ability to carry out mobility activities where the individual
obtains a score of at least 12 points in relation to mobility activities.

#### Scoring: further provision

10

10.1

The descriptor which applies to an individual in relation to each activity in
the tables referred to in regulations 8(2) and 9(2) is—

10.1.a

where one descriptor is satisfied on over 50% of the days of the required
period, that descriptor,

10.1.b

where two or more descriptors are each satisfied on over 50% of the days of
the required period, the descriptor which scores the higher or highest number
of points, and

10.1.c

where no descriptor is satisfied on over 50% of the days of the required
period but two or more descriptors (other than a descriptor which scores 0
points) are satisfied for periods which, when added together, amount to over
50% of the days of the required period—

10.1.c.i

the descriptor which is satisfied for the greater or greatest proportion of
days of the required period, or

10.1.c.ii

where both or all descriptors are satisfied for the same proportion, the
descriptor which scores the higher or highest number of points.

10.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a descriptor is satisfied on a day in the
required period if the descriptor has been satisfied for any part of the day
which is not minimal or fleeting.

10.3

In these Regulations, “ required period ” means—

10.3.a

where an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment falls to be
determined, the period of 13 weeks ending with the relevant date together
with—

10.3.a.i

in relation to an application after an interval (see regulations 14 and 23),
the period of 39 weeks beginning with the date on which that application is
made,

10.3.a.ii

in relation to any other application, the period of 39 weeks beginning with
the day after the relevant date.

10.3.b

where Adult Disability Payment has been awarded to an individual—

10.3.b.i

during the period of 13 weeks following a determination of entitlement in the
circumstances where regulation 14 or 23 applies, the period of 13 weeks ending
with the relevant date together with, for each day of the award, the period of
39 weeks beginning with the day after each day of the award,

10.3.b.ii

in any other case, for each day of the award, the period of 13 weeks ending
with that day of the award together with the period of 39 weeks beginning with
the day after that date.

### Required Period Condition

#### Required Period Condition: daily living component

11

An individual meets the required period condition for the purposes of
regulation 5 where, if the individual’s ability to carry out the daily living
activities were determined every day in the required period, it is likely that
the Scottish Ministers would determine on all of those days that the
individual had limited or, as the case may be, severely limited ability to
carry out the daily living activities.

#### Required Period Condition: mobility component

12

An individual meets the required period condition for the purposes of
regulation 6 where, if the individual’s ability to carry out the mobility
activities were determined every day in the required period, it is likely that
the Scottish Ministers would determine on all of those days that the
individual had limited or, as the case may be, severely limited ability to
carry out the mobility activities.

#### The relevant date

13

Except where regulation 14 or 23 applies, in these Regulations, the “relevant
date” is—

13.a

where the individual has made an application for Adult Disability Payment
which has not been determined—

13.a.i

the date of that application, or

13.a.ii

if later, the earliest date in relation to which, if the individual’s ability
to carry out daily living activities or, as the case may be, mobility
activities, had been determined on every day in the previous 13 weeks, it is
likely that the Scottish Ministers would have determined on all of those days
that the individual has limited ability or, as the case may be, severely
limited ability to carry out those activities, and

13.b

where the individual has an award of either or both components, each day of
that award.

#### The relevant date: Adult Disability Payment after an interval

14

14.1

This regulation does not apply where regulation 23 (Adult Disability Payment
after an interval and after reaching the relevant age) applies.

14.2

Paragraphs (3) and (4) apply where—

14.2.a

an individual makes an application for Adult Disability Payment (“ the
application ”),

14.2.b

that individual had a previous award of—

14.2.b.i

Adult Disability Payment,

14.2.b.ii

Child Disability Payment,

14.2.b.iii

Disability Living Allowance, or

14.2.b.iv

Personal Independence Payment,

which ended not more than two years before the date on which the application
is made,

14.2.c

the previous award referred to in sub-paragraph (b) consisted of the same
component as the one to which the individual is entitled (or would be entitled
if the individual met the required period condition) under the application,
and

14.2.d

the Scottish Ministers determine that the entitlement under the application
results from—

14.2.d.i

substantially the same physical or mental condition or conditions for which
the previous award was made, or

14.2.d.ii

a new physical or mental condition or conditions which developed as a result
of a condition for which the previous award was made.

14.3

In relation to determination of entitlement under the application, the
relevant date for the purpose of regulation 10(3) is the date on which the
previous award ended.

14.4

Where an individual is awarded either or both components under the
application, in relation to continued entitlement to that component or, as the
case may be, those components, the relevant date for the purpose of regulation
10(3) is—

14.4.a

during the period of 13 weeks following the date of the application, the date
on which the previous award ended,

14.4.b

in any other case, each day of the award.

14.5

For the purposes of this regulation—

14.5.a

an award of any of the following is to be treated as though it were an award
of the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment—

14.5.a.i

the care component of Child Disability Payment,

14.5.a.ii

the care component of Disability Living Allowance, or

14.5.a.iii

the daily living component of Personal Independence Payment,

14.5.b

an award of any of the following is to be treated as though it were an award
of the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment—

14.5.b.i

the mobility component of Child Disability Payment,

14.5.b.ii

the mobility component of Disability Living Allowance, or

14.5.b.iii

the mobility component of Personal Independence Payment.

### Residence and Presence Conditions

#### Residence and presence conditions

15

15.1

An individual satisfies the residence and presence conditions where on any day
that individual—

15.1.a

is ordinarily resident in Scotland,

15.1.b

is habitually resident in the common travel area,

15.1.c

is not a person subject to immigration control within the meaning of section
115(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 ,

15.1.d

is present in the common travel area, and

15.1.e

has been present in the common travel area for a period of, or for periods
amounting in the aggregate to, not less than 26 weeks out of the 52 weeks
immediately preceding that day.

15.2

In this Part, “ common travel area ” has the meaning given in section 1(3) of
the Immigration Act 1971 .

15.3

The residence condition set out in paragraph (1)(a) does not apply in relation
to the daily living component where on any day the individual—

15.3.a

is habitually resident in Ireland,

15.3.b

has a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland, and

15.3.c

is an individual—

15.3.c.i

to whom the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland
signed at Dublin on 1 February 2019 , as modified from time to time in
accordance with any provision of it, applies, and

15.3.c.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for payment
of long term care benefits.

15.4

The reference in paragraph (3)(b) to an individual’s link to Scotland being
sufficient is to it being sufficiently close that if the individual were not
entitled to Adult Disability Payment, paragraph (3) would be incompatible with
the Convention on Social Security between the Government of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Government of Ireland signed at
Dublin on 1 February 2019.

15.5

Paragraph (1)(c) does not apply to a person subject to immigration control
within the meaning of section 115(9) of the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999
where the person—

15.5.a

is lawfully working in United Kingdom and is a national of a state with which
the United Kingdom has concluded an agreement which replaces in whole or in
part an agreement under Article 217 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
European Union  which has ceased to apply to, and in, the United Kingdom,
providing, in the field of social security, for the equal treatment of workers
who are nationals of the signatory state and their families,

15.5.b

is a member of the family of, and living with, a person specified in sub-
paragraph (a), or

15.5.c

has been given leave to enter, or remain in, the United Kingdom by the
Secretary of State upon an undertaking by another person or persons pursuant
to the immigration rules, to be responsible for their maintenance and
accommodation.

15.6

The past presence condition in paragraph (1)(e) does not apply where an
individual has a terminal illness within the meaning of regulation 26.

15.7

The residence and presence conditions set out in paragraphs (1)(b) and (1)(e)
do not apply where an individual is a person who—

15.7.a

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under the
immigration rules by virtue of—

15.7.a.i

the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy, or

15.7.a.ii

the previous scheme for locally-employed staff in Afghanistan (sometimes
referred to as the ex-gratia scheme),

15.7.b

has been granted discretionary leave outside the immigration rules as a
dependant of a person referred to in sub-paragraph (a),  ...

15.7.c

has leave granted under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme,  ...

15.7.d

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules,   has a right   of abode in the United Kingdom within
the meaning given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971    or does not
require leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with
section 3ZA of that Act , where the individual—

15.7.d.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1 January 2022, and

15.7.d.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24
February 2022  ,  ...

15.7.e

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules, has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA
of that Act, where the individual—

15.7.e.i

was residing in Sudan before 15 April 2023, and

15.7.e.ii

left Sudan in connection with the violence which rapidly escalated on 15 April
2023 in Khartoum and across Sudan , or

15.7.f

has leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside
the immigration rules, has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the
meaning given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 or does not require
leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom in accordance with section 3ZA
of that Act, where the individual—

15.7.f.i

was residing in Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the
Golan Heights or Lebanon immediately before 7 October 2023, and

15.7.f.ii

left Israel, the West Bank, the Gaza Strip, East Jerusalem, the Golan Heights
or Lebanon in connection with the Hamas terrorist attack in Israel on 7
October 2023 or the violence which rapidly escalated in the region following
the attack

15.8

For the purposes of paragraph (7), “ the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ”
means the scheme announced by the United Kingdom Government on 18 August 2021
.

#### Temporary absence from the common travel area

16

16.1

Where an individual is temporarily absent from the common travel area, the
individual is to be treated as present in the common travel area for—

16.1.a

the first 13 weeks of that absence for any reason, or

16.1.b

the first 26 weeks of that absence where—

16.1.b.i

after the first 13 weeks, the absence is in connection with arrangements made
for the medical treatment of the individual for a disease or bodily or mental
disablement which commenced before leaving the common travel area, and

16.1.b.ii

the arrangements relate to medical treatment—

16.1.b.ii.aa

outside the common travel area,

16.1.b.ii.bb

during the period when the individual is temporarily absent from the common
travel area, and

16.1.b.ii.cc

by, or under the supervision of, a person appropriately qualified to carry out
that treatment.

16.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

16.2.a

an individual is “temporarily absent” if, at the beginning of the period of
absence, that absence is unlikely to exceed 52 weeks, and

16.2.b

“ medical treatment ” means medical, surgical, psychological or rehabilitative
treatment (including any course or diet regimen).

#### Serving members of Her Majesty’s forces, civil servants and their family members

17

17.1

A relevant individual is treated as meeting the residence and presence
conditions set out in regulations 15(1)(a), (b) and (d) where on any day that
individual is outside the common travel area—

17.1.a

by reason of their capacity mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) provided that the
individual satisfied the residence and presence conditions set out in
regulation 15(1)(a), (b) and (d) immediately prior to the start of their
employment mentioned in paragraph (3)(a), or

17.1.b

by reason of being a person mentioned in paragraph (3)(b) living with an
individual to whom paragraph (3)(a) applies.

17.2

The past presence condition set out in regulation 15(1)(e) does not apply to a
relevant individual.

17.3

A “relevant individual” in paragraph (1) and (2) means an individual who is—

17.3.a

outside of the common travel area in their capacity as a—

17.3.a.i

serving member of Her Majesty’s forces, or

17.3.a.ii

civil servant, or

17.3.b

living with a person mentioned in sub-paragraph (a) and—

17.3.b.i

is the child, step-child or child in care of that person,

17.3.b.ii

is the parent, step-parent or parent-in-law of that person, or

17.3.b.iii

is married to or in a civil partnership with that person, or is living
together with that person as if they were married or in a civil partnership.

17.4

In this regulation—

“ child in care ” means— under the law of Scotland, a child in respect of whom
a relevant individual listed in paragraph (3)(a)— is a foster carer within the
meaning of regulation 2 of the Looked After Children (Scotland) Regulations
2009 , is a kinship carer within the meaning of regulation 2 of the Looked
After Children (Scotland) Regulations 2009, has a kinship care order within
the meaning of section 72 of the Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014
, or under the law of England and Wales and Northern Ireland, a child in
respect of whom a person listed in paragraph (3)(a) has a relationship
equivalent to those listed under the law of Scotland, ... “ civil servant ”
has the meaning given by section 1(4) of the Constitutional Reform and
Governance Act 2010 , ... “ serving member of Her Majesty’s forces ” means a
member of a regular force or a reserve force (“ M ”) as defined, in each case,
by section 374 (definitions applying for purposes of the whole Act) of the
Armed Forces Act 2006 , unless— M is under the age of 16, M is committing an
offence under section 8 of the Armed Forces Act 2006 (desertion), the force
concerned is one of Her Majesty’s naval forces which M locally entered at an
overseas base without— previously being an insured person under the National
Insurance Act 1965 , or paying or having previously paid one or more of the
following classes of contributions under the Social Security Act 1975  or the
Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 — primary Class 1, Class
2, or Class 3, or the force concerned is one of Her Majesty’s military forces
or Her Majesty’s air forces which M entered, or was recruited for, outside the
United Kingdom and— where that force is one of Her Majesty’s military forces,
the depot for M’s unit is outside the United Kingdom, or where that force is
one of Her Majesty’s air forces, M is liable under the terms of M’s engagement
to serve only in a specified area outside the United Kingdom.

#### Aircraft workers, mariners and continental shelf operations

18

18.1

An individual is to be treated as meeting the presence conditions set out in
regulation 15(1)(d) and (e) for any period where that individual is—

18.1.a

outside the common travel area in their capacity as an aircraft worker or a
mariner, or

18.1.b

in employment prescribed for the purposes of section 120 (employment at sea
(continental shelf operations)) of the Social Security Contributions and
Benefits Act 1992  in connection with continental shelf operations.

18.2

In this regulation—

“ aircraft worker ” means a person who is, or has been, employed under a
contract of service either as a pilot, commander, navigator or other member of
the crew of any aircraft, or in any other capacity on board any aircraft
where— the employment in that other capacity is for the purposes of the
aircraft or its crew or of any passengers or cargo or mail carried on that
aircraft, and the contract is entered into in the United Kingdom with a view
to its performance (in whole or in part) while the aircraft is in flight,

but does not include a person so far as that employment is as a serving member
of Her Majesty’s forces, and

“ mariner ” means a person who is, or has been, in employment under a contract
of service either as a master or member of the crew of any ship or vessel, or
in any other capacity on board any ship or vessel where— the employment in
that other capacity is for the purposes of that ship or vessel or its crew or
any passengers or cargo or mail carried by the ship or vessel, and the
contract is entered into in the United Kingdom with a view to its performance
(in whole or in part) while the ship or vessel is on voyage,

but does not include a person in so far as that employment is as a serving
member of Her Majesty’s forces.

#### Persons residing in the United Kingdom to whom a relevant EU regulation applies

19

The past presence condition set out in regulation 15(1)(e) does not apply
where on any day the individual is—

19.a

ordinarily resident in Scotland,

19.b

habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

19.c

an individual—

19.c.i

to whom the rules set out in a relevant EU regulation apply by virtue of—

19.c.i.aa

Title III of Part 2 of the EU withdrawal agreement,

19.c.i.bb

Part 3 or Article 23(4) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (as defined in
section 39(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 (“ the
2020 Act ”) ,

19.c.i.cc

Title III of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (as defined in section 39(1) of
the 2020 Act), or

19.c.i.dd

the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters set out in the schedule
of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and Industrial Injuries
(Gibraltar) Order 1974 , and

19.c.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for payment
of sickness benefits in cash.

#### Persons residing outside the United Kingdom to whom a relevant EU regulation applies

20

20.1

The residence and presence conditions set out in regulation 15(1) do not apply
in relation to the daily living component where on any day the individual
satisfies the conditions in paragraph (2).

20.2

The conditions referred to in paragraph (1) are that the individual must—

20.2.a

be an individual—

20.2.a.i

to whom the rules set out in a relevant EU regulation apply by virtue of—

20.2.a.i.aa

Title III of Part 2 of the EU withdrawal agreement,

20.2.a.i.bb

Part 3 or Article 23(4) of the Swiss citizens’ rights agreement (as defined in
section 39(1) of the European Union (Withdrawal Agreement) Act 2020 (“ the
2020 Act ”)),

20.2.a.i.cc

Title III of the EEA EFTA separation agreement (as defined in section 39(1) of
the 2020 Act), or

20.2.a.i.dd

the agreement constituted by the exchange of letters set out in the schedule
of the Family Allowances, National Insurance and Industrial Injuries
(Gibraltar) Order 1974, and

20.2.a.ii

in respect of whom the United Kingdom is, as a result, competent for payment
of sickness benefits in cash,

20.2.b

be habitually resident in—

20.2.b.i

Switzerland,

20.2.b.ii

an EEA state, or

20.2.b.iii

Gibraltar, and

20.2.c

have a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland.

20.3

The reference in paragraph (2)(c) to an individual’s link to Scotland being
sufficient is to it being sufficiently close that if the individual were not
entitled to Adult Disability Payment, paragraph (2) would be incompatible with
the applicable agreement mentioned in sub-paragraph (a)(i) of that paragraph.

20.4

In this regulation, “ EEA State ” means—

20.4.a

any member state of the European Union, or

20.4.b

any other state that is party to the agreement on the European Economic Area
signed at Oporto on 2 May 1992 , together with the Protocol adjusting that
Agreement signed at Brussels on 17 March 1993 , as modified or supplemented
from time to time.

#### No entitlement to daily living component where UK is not competent state

20A

An individual to whom a relevant EU Regulation applies is not entitled to the
daily living component for a period unless during that period the United
Kingdom is competent for payment of sickness benefits in cash to the
individual for the purposes of the relevant EU Regulation in question.

#### Refugees

21

The residence and presence conditions set out in regulations 15(1)(b) and (e)
do not apply where an individual has—

21.a

been granted refugee status or humanitarian protection under the immigration
rules, or

21.b

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom as the dependant of a person
granted refugee status or humanitarian protection under the immigration rules.

### Entitlement under rules relating to age

#### Age Criteria

22

22.1

Adult Disability Payment may be paid in respect of an individual who—

22.1.a

is at least 16 years of age, and

22.1.b

has not reached the relevant age.

22.2

In this Part, “ the relevant age ” means—

22.2.a

pensionable age (within the meaning given by the rules in paragraph 1 of
schedule 4 to the Pensions Act 1995 ), or

22.2.b

if higher, 65.

22.3

Where an individual was born on 29 February, their birthday is to be taken to
fall on 28 February in a year which is not a leap year.

22.4

Paragraph (1)(b) is subject to the exceptions provided in regulations 23 and
24.

#### Exceptions: Adult Disability Payment after an interval and after reaching the relevant age

23

23.1

This regulation applies where—

23.1.a

an individual has reached the relevant age,

23.1.b

the individual makes an application for Adult Disability Payment and—

23.1.b.i

they had a previous award of Adult Disability Payment which ended not more
than one year before the day the new application is made, or

23.1.b.ii

they had a previous award of Personal Independence Payment or Disability
Living Allowance which ended not more than one year before the day the new
application is made,

23.1.c

the previous award referred to in sub-paragraph (b) consisted of the same
component as the one to which the individual is entitled (or would be entitled
if they met the required period condition) under the new application, and

23.1.d

the Scottish Ministers determine that the entitlement under the new
application results from—

23.1.d.i

substantially the same physical or mental condition or conditions for which
the previous award was made, or

23.1.d.ii

a new physical or mental condition or conditions which developed as a result
of a condition for which the previous award was made.

23.2

Where an application for Adult Disability Payment is made in terms of
paragraph (1)—

23.2.a

regulation 22(1)(b) does not apply, and

23.2.b

paragraphs (5) and (6) apply to the determination of entitlement under the new
application.

23.3

In relation to determination of entitlement under the new application, the
relevant date for the purpose of regulation 10(3) is the date on which the
previous award ended.

23.4

Where an individual is awarded either or both components under the new
application, in relation to continued entitlement to that component or, as the
case may be, those components, the relevant date for the purpose of regulation
10(3) is—

23.4.a

during the period of 13 weeks following the date of the new application, the
date on which the previous award ended,

23.4.b

in any other case, each day of the award.

23.5

Where the Scottish Ministers determine that the individual has severely
limited ability to carry out mobility activities—

23.5.a

the individual is entitled to the enhanced rate of the mobility component only
if they were entitled to that rate of that component under the previous award,
and

23.5.b

where the individual is not entitled to the enhanced rate of that component
because of sub-paragraph (a), they are entitled to the standard rate of that
component provided that they were entitled to that rate of that component
under the previous award.

23.6

Where the Scottish Ministers determine that the individual has limited ability
to carry out mobility activities, the individual is entitled to the standard
rate of the mobility component only if they were entitled to that component,
at either rate, under the previous award.

23.7

For the purposes of this regulation—

23.7.a

an award of either of the following is to be treated as though it were an
award of the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment—

23.7.a.i

the care component of Disability Living Allowance, or

23.7.a.ii

the daily living component of Personal Independence Payment, and

23.7.b

an award of either of the following is to be treated as though it were an
award of the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment—

23.7.b.i

the mobility component of Daily Living Allowance, or

23.7.b.ii

the mobility component of Personal Independence Payment.

#### Persons who have reached the relevant age: other exceptions

24

Regulation 22(1)(b) does not apply where the individual has reached the
relevant age, including for the purposes of any determination of their
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment made after they have reached the
relevant age, if they—

24.a

were entitled to an award of either or both components of Adult Disability
Payment on the day preceding the day on which they reached the relevant age,

24.b

made an application for Adult Disability Payment before reaching the relevant
age and that application was not determined before they reached that age, but
an award of either or both components would be made in respect of the
individual but for regulation 22(1)(b),  ...

24.c

are a transferring individual in terms of Part 3 of schedule 2  , or

24.d

are a transferring individual in terms of the Disability Assistance for
Working Age People (Transitional Provisions and Miscellaneous Amendment)
(Scotland) Regulations 2022.

#### Determination of an award after the person has reached the relevant age

25

25.1

This regulation applies where—

25.1.a

the individual—

25.1.a.i

has reached the relevant age, and

25.1.a.ii

is entitled to an award (“ the original award ”)  ... of Adult Disability
Payment, pursuant to an exception in regulation 23 or 24, and

25.1.b

the Scottish Ministers are under a duty to make a subsequent determination of
their entitlement by way of a determination without an application under
regulation 48(a).

25.2

The restrictions in paragraph (3) apply in relation to a determination
referred to in paragraph (1)(b) where—

25.2.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

25.2.b

the determination is being made under regulation 48(a) in relation to—

25.2.b.i

a change of circumstances which occurred after the person reached the relevant
age, or

25.2.b.ii

a material fact which the Scottish Ministers were not previously aware of, or
medical evidence received from a healthcare professional or other person
approved by the Scottish Ministers, where the Scottish Ministers become aware
of the material fact or medical evidence after the individual reached the
relevant age.

25.3

The restrictions referred to in paragraph (2) are—

25.3.a

where the original mobility component award is for the standard rate then,
regardless of whether the award would otherwise have been for the enhanced
rate, the Scottish Ministers—

25.3.a.i

may only make an award for the standard rate of that component, and

25.3.a.ii

may only make such an award where entitlement results from substantially the
same condition or conditions in respect of which the mobility component in the
original award was given,

25.3.b

where the original mobility component award is for the enhanced rate, the
Scottish Ministers may only award that rate of that component where
entitlement results from substantially the same condition or conditions in
respect of which the mobility component in the original award was given.

25.3.c

where the original award did not include an award of the mobility component,
the Scottish Ministers may not award that component at either the standard or
enhanced rate.

25.4

Where the original award does not include an award of the mobility component
but the individual had—

25.4.a

a previous award of—

25.4.a.i

the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment,

25.4.a.ii

the mobility component of Personal Independence Payment, or

25.4.a.iii

the mobility component of Disability Living Allowance, and

25.4.b

the previous award of the component under sub-paragraph (a) ceased no more
than 1 year prior to the date on which the determination referred to in
paragraph (1)(b) takes or would take effect,

for the purpose of this regulation, entitlement under that previous award is
to be treated as if it were under the original award.

25.5

Paragraph (2)(b)(ii) does not include medical evidence in the form of a
clinical judgement which was made in accordance with regulation 26(7) and (8)
before the individual reached the relevant age.

25.6

In this regulation, “ healthcare professional ” means a—

25.6.a

registered medical practitioner,

25.6.b

registered nurse, or

25.6.c

healthcare professional who is registered by the Health and Care Professions
Council.

### Entitlement under special rules for terminal illness

#### Entitlement under special rules for terminal illness

26

26.1

An individual who has a terminal illness is to be treated as satisfying the
conditions for the enhanced rate of both the daily living component and the
mobility component of Adult Disability Payment.

26.2

Paragraph (1) applies regardless of the period of time for which the
individual has had the terminal illness.

26.3

An individual to whom this regulation applies is to be treated as though—

26.3.a

they have obtained the maximum points for each activity listed in column 1 of
the tables in Part 2 and Part 3 of schedule 1, and

26.3.b

they have satisfied regulations 5(3) and 6(3).

26.4

Subject to paragraphs (5) and (6), the individual’s entitlement to the rates
referred to in paragraph (1) begins on the date on which—

26.4.a

the individual’s application for Adult Disability Payment was made, where the
application included information about the individual’s terminal illness,

26.4.b

the Scottish Ministers became aware of the individual’s terminal illness
(whether as a result of the individual notifying a change in circumstances or
otherwise), where the individual was previously awarded, and has an ongoing
entitlement to, Adult Disability Payment, on the basis of a determination that
the individual was entitled to the daily living component or the mobility
component or both in relation to a condition other than terminal illness, or

26.4.c

the clinical judgement was made in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8)
(“the judgement”),

whichever is the earlier.

26.5

Where the judgement mentioned in paragraph (4)(c) is dated not more than 26
weeks earlier than whichever date in paragraph (4)(a) or (b) applies (“the
applicable date”), the Scottish Ministers have the power, when making their
determination, to specify that an individual’s entitlement begins—

26.5.a

up to a maximum of 26 weeks prior to the applicable date, and

26.5.b

on or after the day these Regulations come into force.

26.6

Where the judgement mentioned in paragraph (4)(c)—

26.6.a

is dated more than 26 weeks earlier than whichever date in paragraph (4)(a) or
(b) applies (“the applicable date”), and

26.6.b

an appropriate healthcare professional confirms that the judgement is still
accurate by making a judgement in accordance with paragraphs (7) and (8),

an individual’s entitlement can only begin—

26.6.c

up to a maximum of 26 weeks prior to the applicable date, and

26.6.d

on or after the day these Regulations come into force.

26.7

For the purposes of these Regulations an individual is to be regarded as
having a terminal illness for the purpose of determining entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment if it is the clinical judgement of an appropriate
healthcare professional that the individual has a progressive disease that can
reasonably be expected to cause the individual’s death.

26.8

Subject to paragraph (9), an appropriate healthcare professional exercising
the judgement described in paragraph (7) must have regard to the guidance
prepared and made publically available by the Chief Medical Officer of the
Scottish Administration in accordance with paragraph 1(3) of schedule 5 of the
2018 Act .

26.9

Where regulation 20 (persons residing outside the United Kingdom to whom a
relevant EU regulation applies) applies to the individual, an appropriate
healthcare professional mentioned in paragraph 10(b) need not have regard to
the guidance mentioned in paragraph (8) where it would not be reasonable in
the circumstances to insist on the judgement being formed with regard to that
guidance.

26.10

In this regulation, “ an appropriate healthcare professional ” means—

26.10.a

a registered medical practitioner or a registered nurse who is—

26.10.a.i

involved in the diagnosis or care of the individual, and

26.10.a.ii

acting in their professional capacity, or

26.10.b

where regulation 20 applies to the individual, a person who—

26.10.b.i

has equivalent qualifications to a registered medical practitioner or a
registered nurse in an EEA state, Gibraltar or Switzerland,

26.10.b.ii

is a member of the professional body equivalent to the General Medical Council
or Nursing and Midwifery Council in that EEA state, Gibraltar or Switzerland,
and

26.10.b.iii

meets the requirements of sub-paragraph (a)(i) and (ii).

26.11

Where an individual has previously received Adult Disability Payment or a
benefit listed in paragraph 12(a) for a period and a determination is
subsequently made that the individual is entitled to Adult Disability Payment
at a higher rate for that period by virtue of this regulation, that individual
will be entitled to the difference between the value of entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment under the subsequent determination and the value of Adult
Disability Payment or the benefit listed in paragraph 12(a) to which that
individual was previously entitled for that period.

26.12

For the purpose of paragraph 11—

26.12.a

the benefits are—

26.12.a.i

armed forces independence payment,

26.12.a.ii

Attendance Allowance,

26.12.a.iia

Pension Age Disability Payment,

26.12.a.iii

Child Disability Payment,

26.12.a.iv

Disability Living Allowance, or

26.12.a.v

Personal Independence Payment, and

26.12.b

regulation 4 (entitlement to other benefits) is treated as omitted.

### Effect of time spent in care homes, hospital and legal detention

#### Effect of admission to a care home on ongoing entitlement to daily living component

27

27.1

This regulation applies where an individual who has an ongoing entitlement to
the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment becomes a resident of a
care home.

27.2

Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5) and regulation 29, on the day after the day
on which the individual has been resident in a care home for 28 days, and for
so long as the individual continues to reside in such a home, the value of the
daily living component of Adult Disability Payment that is to be given to the
individual is to be £0 instead of the values set out in regulation 34 (amount
and form of Adult Disability Payment).

27.3

The 28 days referred to in paragraph (2) may comprise two or more separate
periods, provided that there is no more than 28 days between each period.

27.4

Paragraph (2) does not apply to a resident in a care home, where the full
costs of any qualifying services are met—

27.4.a

entirely out of the resources of the individual for whom the qualifying
services are provided,

27.4.b

partly out of the resources of the individual for whom the qualifying services
are provided and partly out of the resources of another person (other than a
local authority) or assistance from a charity, or

27.4.c

entirely out of the resources of another person (other than a local authority)
or assistance from a charity.

27.5

For the purposes of this regulation, an individual is not resident in a care
home during any period when the individual is being looked after by a local
authority and—

27.5.a

has been placed temporarily in a private dwelling with a family, relative or
some other suitable person while aged between 16 and 18 and receiving services
under Part II of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995  by virtue of being a child
in need within the meaning of section 93(4)(a)(ii) (impairment of health), or
93(4)(a)(iii) (disability) of that Act, or

27.5.b

is accommodated in a care home outside the United Kingdom, where the costs of
any qualifying services are met wholly or partly by a local authority
exercising its powers under section 25 of the Education (Additional Support
for Learning) (Scotland) Act 2004 (attendance at establishments outwith the
United Kingdom) .

27.6

For the purposes of this regulation and regulation 32 (entitlement beginning
while in alternative accommodation), reference to an individual being “ looked
after by a local authority ” is to be construed, as the case may be, in
accordance with—

27.6.a

section 17(6) of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995 ,

27.6.b

section 105(4) of the Children Act 1989 , or

27.6.c

article 25 of the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 .

#### Effect of admission to hospital on ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability Payment

28

28.1

This regulation applies where an individual who is aged 18 years or older and
has an ongoing entitlement to either component of Adult Disability Payment—

28.1.a

is undergoing medical or other treatment as an in-patient at a hospital or
similar institution, and

28.1.b

any of the costs of the treatment, accommodation and any related services
provided for them are borne out of public funds.

28.2

Subject to regulation 29, on the day after the day on which the individual has
been an in-patient in a hospital or similar institution for 28 days, and for
so long as the individual continues to be an in-patient in such an
institution, the value of each component of Adult Disability Payment that is
to be given to the individual is £0 instead of the values set out in
regulation 34 (amount and form of Adult Disability Payment).

28.3

The 28 days referred to in paragraph (2) may comprise two or more separate
periods, provided that there is no more than 28 days between each period.

28.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the costs of treatment, accommodation or
any related services are borne out of public funds if the individual is
undergoing medical or other treatment as an in-patient in—

28.4.a

a hospital or similar institution under—

28.4.a.i

the National Health Service Act 2006 ,

28.4.a.ii

the National Health Service (Wales) Act 2006 ,  ...

28.4.a.iii

the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978 , or

28.4.a.iv

a hospital or similar institution under the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 or the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991,

28.4.b

a hospital or similar institution maintained or administered by the Defence
Council .

28.5

This regulation does not apply where an individual was under the age of 18 on
the day on which they began their current period undergoing medical or other
treatment as an in-patient at a hospital or similar institution.

#### Exception: Hospices

29

29.1

Regulations 27(2) and 28(2) do not apply where the individual is residing in a
hospice and has a terminal illness.

29.2

In this regulation, “ hospice ” means a hospital or other institution whose
primary function is to provide palliative care for persons resident there who
are suffering from a progressive disease in its final stages, other than—

29.2.a

a health service hospital (within the meaning of section 108(1) of the
National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1978 ) in Scotland,

29.2.b

a health service hospital (within the meaning of section 275(1) of the
National Health Service Act 2006 ) in England,

29.2.c

a hospital in Wales vested in—

29.2.c.i

an NHS trust,

29.2.c.ii

a Local Health Board, or

29.2.c.iii

the Welsh Ministers,

for the purpose of functions under the National Health Service (Wales) Act
2006 ,

29.2.ca

a hospital or similar institution under the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 or the Health and Personal Social
Services (Northern Ireland) Order 1991,

29.2.d

a hospital maintained or administered by the Defence Council, or

29.2.e

an institution similar to a hospital mentioned in any of the preceding sub-
paragraphs.

29.3

In this regulation—

“ NHS trust ” means a body established under section 18 of the National Health
Service (Wales) Act 2006, and “ Local Health Board ” means a body established
under section 11 of that Act.

#### Effect of legal detention on ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability Payment

30

30.1

This regulation applies where an individual who has an ongoing entitlement to
Adult Disability Payment begins a period of legal detention.

30.2

For the purposes of this regulation, an individual is to be treated as though
they are not in legal detention on any day on which they are an in-patient in
a hospital or in a hospice.

30.3

On the day after the day on which the individual has been in legal detention
for 28 days, and for so long as the individual continues to be in legal
detention, instead of the values set out in regulation 34 (amount and form of
Adult Disability Payment)—

30.3.a

where the individual is aged 18 or over, the value of each component of Adult
Disability Payment that is to be given to the individual is to be £0, or

30.3.b

where the individual is aged 16 or 17, the value of the daily living component
of Adult Disability Payment that is to be given to the individual is to be £0.

30.4

The 28 days referred to in paragraph (3) may comprise two or more separate
periods, provided there is no more than one year between each period.

30.5

Paragraph (3) of this regulation does not apply to an individual where—

30.5.a

the individual is undergoing legal detention outside the United Kingdom, and

30.5.b

in similar circumstances in Scotland, the individual would have been excepted
from the application of that paragraph by virtue of the operation of any
provision of this regulation.

#### Calculation of periods of time spent in a care home, hospital or legal detention

31

31.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) to (6), a period during which an individual is—

31.1.a

resident in a care home for the purpose of regulation 27,

31.1.b

an in-patient in hospital or similar institution for the purpose of regulation
28,

31.1.c

in legal detention for the purpose of regulation 30, or

31.1.d

resident in a care home, an in-patient in a hospital or similar institution,
or in legal detention for the purposes of regulation 32,

is to be determined in accordance with this regulation.

31.2

Such a period is to be taken to—

31.2.a

begin on the day after the day on which the individual enters the place, and

31.2.b

end on the day before the day on which the individual leaves the place.

31.3

Where an individual takes a period of leave from a place mentioned in
paragraph (1), the days on which the individual begins and returns from leave
are not to be counted as days of residence in that place.

31.4

Days constituting a period of leave are not to be counted as days of residence
in a place.

31.5

Where an individual enters a place (“the second place”) under paragraph (1) as
a result of transfer from another place (“the first place”) under that
paragraph—

31.5.a

the day of transfer is to be counted as a day of residence in the second
place, and

31.5.b

for the purposes of calculating when the individual has been in the second
place for 28 days for the purposes of regulations 27(2), 28(2) and 30(3)—

31.5.b.i

the days that they were resident in the first place are to be treated as days
of residence in the second place,

31.5.b.ii

if they were resident in the first place for more than 28 days, the individual
is to be treated as though they have been resident in the second place for 28
days on the day before the day of transfer, and

31.5.c

the period of residence in the first place is deemed to end on the day on
which the period of residence in the second place ends.

31.6

For the purposes of this regulation, ‘days of residence’ means—

31.6.a

days resident in a care home in terms of regulation 27 or 32,

31.6.b

days as an in-patient in hospital or similar institution in terms of
regulation 28 or 32, and

31.6.c

days in legal detention in terms of regulation 30 or 32.

#### Entitlement beginning while in alternative accommodation

32

32.1

This regulation applies where an individual is resident in a care home, an in-
patient in a hospital or similar institution, or in legal detention on the day
on which their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins.

32.2

On and after that day, and for so long as the individual continues to reside
in a place mentioned in paragraph (1), instead of the values set out in
regulation 34 (amount and form of Adult Disability Payment), the individual is
to be given the value of £0—

32.2.a

where the individual is resident in a care home, in respect of the daily
living component of Adult Disability Payment,

32.2.b

where the individual is—

32.2.b.i

aged 18 or over,

32.2.b.ii

undergoing medical or other treatment as an in-patient in a hospital or
similar institution, and

32.2.b.iii

any of the costs of the treatment, accommodation and any related services
provided for them are borne out of public funds within the meaning of
regulation 28(4),

in respect of each component of Adult Disability Payment, or

32.2.c

where the individual is in legal detention and—

32.2.c.i

aged 18 or over, in respect of either component of Adult Disability Payment,

32.2.c.ii

aged 16 or 17, in respect of the daily living component of Adult Disability
Payment.

32.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply where the individual is a resident in a
care home, and the full costs of any qualifying services are met—

32.3.a

entirely out of the resources of the individual for whom the qualifying
services are provided,

32.3.b

partly out of the resources of the individual for whom the qualifying services
are provided and partly out of the resources of another person (other than a
local authority) or assistance from a charity, or

32.3.c

entirely out of the resources of another person (other than a local authority)
or assistance from a charity.

32.4

For the purposes of this regulation, an individual is not resident in a care
home during any period when the individual is being looked after by a local
authority and—

32.4.a

has been placed temporarily in a private dwelling with a family, relative or
some other suitable person while aged between 16 and 18 and receiving services
under Part II of the Children (Scotland) Act 1995  by virtue of being a child
in need within the meaning of section 93(4)(a)(ii) (impairment of health), or
93(4)(a)(iii) (disability) of that Act, or

32.4.b

is accommodated in a care home outside the United Kingdom, where the costs of
any qualifying services are met wholly or partly by a local authority pursuant
to their powers under section 25 of the Education (Additional Support for
Learning) (Scotland) Act 2004 (attendance at establishments outwith the United
Kingdom) .

### Making of applications and payments and duration of eligibility

#### Making Payments

33

33.1

Where Adult Disability Payment is payable in respect of an individual, the
Scottish Ministers may, where they consider it appropriate, make the payment
to another person to be used for the benefit of the individual.

33.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider, for any reason, that it is no longer
appropriate for a particular person who falls within paragraph (1) to continue
to receive the payment, they may cease making payment to that person.

#### Amount and form of Adult Disability Payment

34

34.1

The weekly rate of payment of the daily living component is, where the
individual is entitled to—

34.1.a

the standard rate,  £72.65 , or

34.1.b

the enhanced rate,  £108.55 .

34.2

The weekly rate of the mobility component is, where the individual is entitled
to—

34.2.a

the standard rate,  £28.70 , or

34.2.b

the enhanced rate,  £75.75 .

34.3

Where an individual is entitled to payment of the daily living component or
the mobility component for a period shorter than one week, payment of that
component is to be made at one-seventh of the relevant weekly rate, for each
day of entitlement.

34.4

For any week where an individual is entitled to—

34.4.a

the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment, and

34.4.b

payment of an amount in respect of constant attendance under section 104 of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 ,

the amount of the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment that is
to be given to the individual is to be reduced by the amount paid under that
section.

34.5

For the purpose of calculating the amount of the daily living component that
is to be given to the individual, in accordance with paragraph (3), where the
amount in respect of constant attendance is equal to or greater than the
amount of the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment, the value of
the daily living component of Adult Disability Payment that is to be given to
the individual is to be £0.

34.6

For any week where an individual is entitled to—

34.6.a

the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment, and

34.6.b

payment of War Pensioners’ Mobility Supplement within the meaning of—

34.6.b.i

the Naval, Military and Air Forces etc. (Disablement and Death) Service
Pensions Order 1983 (“ 1983 Order ”) ,

34.6.b.ii

the Personal Injuries (Civilians) Scheme 1983 ,

34.6.b.iii

the 1983 Order by virtue of the War Pensions (Naval Auxiliary Personnel)
Scheme 1964 ,

34.6.b.iv

the Pensions (Polish Forces) Scheme 1964 ,

34.6.b.v

the War Pensions (Mercantile Marine) Scheme 1964 , or

34.6.b.vi

an Order of Her Majesty in relation to the Home Guard dated 21 December 1964
or 22 December 1964, or in relation to the Ulster Defence Regiment dated 4
January 1971,

the amount of the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment that is to be
given to the individual is to be £0.

34.7

Adult Disability Payment is only to be given in the form of money, except as
provided for by regulation 44 (Form of payment – giving Adult Disability
Payment by way of deduction).

#### When an application is to be treated as made and beginning of entitlement to assistance

35

35.1

An application for Adult Disability Payment is to be treated as made—

35.1.a

on the day it is received by the Scottish Ministers, or

35.1.b

if applicable, on the day identified by the Scottish Ministers in accordance
with paragraph (2).

35.2

If, before making a determination on the basis of an application, the Scottish
Ministers consider that the individual in respect of whom the application is
made—

35.2.a

would not satisfy a requirement in—

35.2.a.i

regulation 5 (daily living component),

35.2.a.ii

regulation 6 (mobility component),

35.2.a.iii

regulation 11 (required period condition: daily living component),

35.2.a.iv

regulation 12 (required period condition: mobility component),

35.2.a.v

Part 5 (residence and presence conditions), or

35.2.a.vi

regulation 22 (age criteria),

if the application were treated as made on the day it was received, and

35.2.b

would likely be entitled to receive Adult Disability Payment if those
requirements were satisfied within a 13-week period beginning on the day it
was received,

the Scottish Ministers may choose the date within that 13 week period on which
the application is to be treated as made.

35.3

Where, on the basis of an application (other than where regulation 58(1)
applies), a determination is made that an individual is entitled to Adult
Disability Payment, the date on which entitlement begins is to be identified
in accordance with paragraphs (4) to (6).

35.4

Where an application is made within 8 weeks of the day on which the full name
and date of birth of an individual (“the required data”) is submitted by, or
on behalf of, the individual to the Scottish Ministers for the purpose of an
application for Adult Disability Payment, entitlement begins on whichever is
the later of the day—

35.4.a

on which the required data was submitted, or

35.4.b

identified in accordance with paragraph (2).

35.5

Subject to paragraph (6), where an application is made after the 8 week period
described in paragraph (4), entitlement begins on the day on which the
application is treated as made in accordance with paragraph (1).

35.6

Where the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that there is a good reason why an
application was made after the 8 week period described in paragraph (4), they
may treat the application as having been made within that period.

35.7

For the purposes of section 38(3) of the 2018 Act, the period covered by an
application for Adult Disability Payment—

35.7.a

under paragraph (1)(a)—

35.7.a.i

begins on the day on which the application is treated as having been made, and

35.7.a.ii

ends on the day on which the determination of entitlement is made, and

35.7.b

under paragraph (1)(b)—

35.7.b.i

is deemed to begin on the day before the determination of entitlement is made
provided that the requirements are satisfied, and

35.7.b.ii

ends on the day on which the determination of entitlement is made.

#### Time of Payment

36

Where an award of Adult Disability Payment is made, the Scottish Ministers are
to make—

36.a

the first payment of assistance on a date specified in the notice of
determination, and

36.b

any subsequent payment—

36.b.i

4 weekly in arrears, or

36.b.ii

where regulation 26 (entitlement under special rules for terminal illness)
applies, weekly in advance.

#### Continuing Eligibility

37

37.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), a determination that an individual is
entitled to Adult Disability Payment in respect of a period is to be made on
the basis that the individual has an ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment after the end of that period, except where paragraph (2) applies.

37.2

This paragraph applies where, after the end of the period mentioned in
paragraph (1), the individual no longer satisfies the eligibility rules.

37.3

A determination of ongoing entitlement is made on the basis that—

37.3.a

the individual will continue to be entitled to Adult Disability Payment for a
fixed or indefinite period as specified in the notice of determination, and

37.3.b

the decision that the individual is entitled to Adult Disability Payment for
each subsequent 4-week period is to be taken in accordance with these
Regulations, on the strength of the assumptions set out in paragraph (4).

37.4

The assumptions are that—

37.4.a

the individual continues to satisfy the eligibility criteria which were
satisfied to be entitled to Adult Disability Payment under the determination
mentioned in paragraph (1),

37.4.b

the information on which the determination mentioned in paragraph (1) was made
still applies and is relevant in the individual’s case, and

37.4.c

there is no change in circumstances of the individual which would require to
be notified under section 56 (duty to notify change of circumstances) of the
2018 Act.

#### Circumstances in which assistance may be suspended

38

38.1

The Scottish Ministers may decide that an individual who has an ongoing
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment in respect of a period by virtue of
regulation 37 (continuing eligibility) is not to become entitled to be given
some or all of either component or both components of that assistance at the
time at which the individual otherwise would in accordance with that
regulation, as read with regulation 36 (time of payment) (referred to in these
Regulations as a decision to suspend the individual’s Adult Disability
Payment).

38.2

Where such a decision is made in respect of an individual, payments of Adult
Disability Payment to that individual are to be suspended until such a time as
the Scottish Ministers decide that the individual is once again to become
entitled to be given Adult Disability Payment.

38.3

The Scottish Ministers may decide to suspend an individual’s Adult Disability
Payment only in the circumstances where—

38.3.a

section 54(1A) of the 2018 Act  applies, or

38.3.b

the Scottish Ministers have made arrangements (whether under section 85A of
the 2018 Act, section 85B of the 2018 Act  or otherwise) for a person to
receive the Adult Disability Payment on the individual’s behalf, and the
Scottish Ministers consider that it is necessary to suspend the Adult
Disability Payment—

38.3.b.i

in order to protect the individual from the risk of financial abuse, or

38.3.b.ii

because the person with whom the Scottish Ministers have made arrangements is
unable to continue to receive the Adult Disability Payment.

38.4

In this regulation, “ financial abuse ” includes—

38.4.a

having money or other property stolen,

38.4.b

being defrauded,

38.4.c

being put under pressure in relation to money or other property,

38.4.d

having money or other property misused.

#### Having regard to financial circumstances

39

The Scottish Ministers must have regard to an individual’s financial
circumstances prior to making a decision to suspend payment to the individual
of some or all of either component or both components of Adult Disability
Payment.

#### Information to be given following suspension

40

40.1

Having made a decision to suspend an individual’s Adult Disability Payment,
the Scottish Ministers must inform the individual of—

40.1.a

their decision to suspend the individual’s Adult Disability Payment,

40.1.b

the reasons for their decision,

40.1.c

any steps which might be taken by the individual in order for the Scottish
Ministers to consider ending the suspension, and

40.1.d

the individual’s right under regulation 41 to require the Scottish Ministers
to review their decision to suspend the individual’s Adult Disability Payment.

40.2

The Scottish Ministers must fulfil their duty under paragraph (1) in a way
that leaves the individual with a record of the information which the
individual can show to, or otherwise share with, others.

#### Right to review suspension

41

41.1

An individual may require the Scottish Ministers to review their decision to
suspend that individual’s Adult Disability Payment.

41.2

The Scottish Ministers must—

41.2.a

complete a review mentioned in paragraph (1) within 31 days beginning with the
day when they received notice from the individual requiring them to review
their decision,

41.2.b

inform the individual of the outcome of the review including reasons for their
decision.

41.3

The Scottish Ministers must fulfil their duty under paragraph (2)(b) in a way
that leaves the individual with a record of the information which the
individual can show to, or otherwise share with, others.

#### Ending a suspension

42

The Scottish Ministers are to make a decision to end a suspension where—

42.a

the individual provides the information requested under section 54(1) of the
2018 Act  and the Scottish Ministers consider that they do not require to make
a determination without application,

42.b

regulation 38(3)(a) applies and the Scottish Ministers make a determination
without application under regulation 47 (consideration of entitlement after
specified period), 48 (determination following change of circumstances, etc.),
49 (determination following official error – underpayments), 50 (determination
following error – overpayments) or 51 (determination to effect a deduction
decision),

42.c

the Scottish Ministers make a determination under section 54(2) of the 2018
Act ,

42.d

the circumstances mentioned in regulation 38(3)(b) no longer apply, or

42.e

the Scottish Ministers consider it appropriate in the circumstances, including
having regard to the financial circumstances of the individual.

#### Effect of suspension ending

43

When—

43.a

the suspension of an individual’s Adult Disability Payment ends, and

43.b

under the latest determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment relating to the period of the suspension the individual
would have become entitled to be given Adult Disability Payment during that
period,

the individual is immediately to be given the Adult Disability Payment that
the individual would have become entitled to be given under the determination
during the period of suspension.

#### Form of payment – giving Adult Disability Payment by way of deduction

44

44.1

Where an individual has a liability to the Scottish Ministers under section 63
of the 2018 Act (liability for assistance given in error), the individual’s
payment of Adult Disability Payment may be given (in whole or in part) by way
of deduction, at a reasonable level, from that liability either—

44.1.a

with the agreement of the individual, or

44.1.b

without the individual’s agreement, where the individual has unreasonably
refused to agree to the assistance being given in that form.

44.2

For the purpose of paragraph (1), “ reasonable level ” means a level that is
reasonable having regard to the financial circumstances of the individual.

#### When an increase in level of entitlement takes effect

45

45.1

Where, as a result of a determination without an application, the amount of
Adult Disability Payment payable in respect of an individual is increased or
their entitlement to a component is awarded, the change takes effect—

45.1.a

in the case of an increase pursuant to a determination made under regulation
48(c), 48(d) or 48(e)   (determination following change of circumstances etc.)
on the day after the day on which Personal Independence Payment  or Disability
Living Allowance   ceased to be paid in respect of the individual,

45.1.b

in the case of an award of entitlement to a component or an increase pursuant
to a determination made in accordance with regulation 48(a) that affects their
eligibility under regulation 5 (daily living component) or regulation 6
(mobility component), on the date when—

45.1.b.i

if as a result of the individual reporting the change—

45.1.b.i.aa

if the individual reports the change within one month of the change occurring,
the individual first satisfies the requirements for a higher rate of the daily
living or mobility component,

45.1.b.i.bb

if the individual reports the change within more than one month but not more
than 13 months of the change occurring, the individual first satisfies the
requirements for a higher rate of the   daily living   or mobility component,
but only if the Scottish Ministers consider that the individual had good
reason for not notifying the change within one month, or

45.1.b.i.cc

in any other case, the individual reports the change.

45.1.b.ii

if as a result of the Scottish Ministers becoming aware that a determination
of an individual’s entitlement was made in ignorance of a material fact, on
the date when the Scottish Ministers make the determination.

45.1.c

in the case of an earlier determination which was based on official error  ...
within the meaning of regulation 49 (determination following official error –
underpayments) or on error within the meaning of regulation 50 (determination
following error – overpayments),  ... on the date when the earlier
determination took effect,  ...

45.1.ca

in the case of a determination made in accordance with regulation 48(a), where
the period that an individual has been—

45.1.ca.i

resident in a care home for the purpose of regulation 27,

45.1.ca.ii

an in-patient in hospital or similar institution for the purpose of regulation
28,

45.1.ca.iii

in legal detention for the purpose of regulation 30, or

45.1.ca.iv

resident in a care home, an in-patient in a hospital or similar institution,
or in legal detention for the purposes of regulation 32,

has come to an end, on the day on which the individual leaves the place, or

45.1.d

in any other case, on the date when the Scottish Ministers make the
determination.

45.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider that in all the circumstances it would
be unjust not to do so, they may, when making their determination, set an
earlier date for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), (c) or (d).

45.3

This regulation does not apply to an individual to whom regulation 26
(entitlement under special rules for terminal illness) applies.

45.4

Where an individual has previously received Adult Disability Payment for a
period and a determination without application has subsequently been made that
the same individual is entitled to Adult Disability Payment at a higher rate
for that period, that individual will be entitled to the difference between
the value of entitlement to Adult Disability Payment under the subsequent
determination and the value of Adult Disability Payment to which that
individual was previously entitled for that period.

#### When a decrease in level or cessation of entitlement takes effect

46

46.1

Where, as a result of determination without an application, the amount of
Adult Disability Payment payable in respect of an individual is decreased or
their entitlement to a component is ceased, the change takes effect—

46.1.a

in the case of a decrease pursuant to a determination made under regulation
48(c), 48(d) or 48(e)   (determination following change of circumstances etc.)
on the day after the day on which Personal Independence Payment  or Disability
Living Allowance   ceased to be paid in respect of the individual,

46.1.aa

in the case of a determination without application under regulation 48(b), on
the date of the individual’s death,

46.1.b

in the case of a determination without application under regulation 47 or
48(a), on the date—

46.1.b.i

where the individual was required to notify a change under section 56 of the
2018 Act, if the individual—

46.1.b.i.aa

knowingly fails to notify a change, or

46.1.b.i.bb

fails to notify the change as soon as reasonably practicable after it
occurred,

the individual should have notified the Scottish Ministers of the change, or

46.1.b.ii

in any other case, the Scottish Ministers make the determination,

46.1.c

in the case of an earlier determination which was based on official error  ...
within the meaning of regulation 49 (determination following official error –
underpayments) or on error within the meaning of regulation 50 (determination
following error – overpayments), on the date when the earlier determination
took effect,

46.1.d

in any other case, on the date when the Scottish Ministers make the
determination.

46.2

Where the Scottish Ministers consider that in all the circumstances it would
be unjust not to do so, they may, when making their determination, set a later
date for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), (c) or (d).

### Determination of entitlement to Adult Disability Payment without application

#### Consideration of entitlement after specified period

47

The Scottish Ministers must make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, without receiving an application,
after the end of the period specified (if any) in—

47.a

the individual’s notice of determination under section 40 or notice of re-
determination under section 44 (as the case may be), or

47.b

a determination made by the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland under section 49,

of the 2018 Act .

#### Determination following change of circumstances etc.

48

The Scottish Ministers must make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, without receiving an application,
where the individual has an ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
and they become aware—

48.a

of a change of circumstances, whether or not notified by the individual in
accordance with section 56 of the 2018 Act, or where the Scottish Ministers
become aware that a determination of an individual’s entitlement was made in
ignorance of a material fact, which would possibly result in an alteration to
the component or rate of Adult Disability Payment payable to the individual or
which is likely to mean that the individual is no longer entitled to Adult
Disability Payment,

48.b

that the individual has died,

48.c

of an alteration of the component or rate of award of Personal Independence
Payment which the individual was entitled to immediately before the date of
transfer to Adult Disability Payment in accordance with Part 3 of schedule 2
(transitional provisions) as a result of a decision made pursuant to—

48.c.i

a revision under Part 2 of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence
Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions
and Appeals) Regulations 2013 ,

48.c.ii

a supersession under Part 3 of those Regulations,

48.c.iii

an appeal under section 12 of the Social Security Act 1998 (“ the 1998 Act ”)
,

48.c.iv

a re-consideration under section 13 of the 1998 Act , or

48.c.v

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal under section 14 of the 1998 Act ,

48.c.vi

a revision under article 10 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998  (“ the 1998 Order ”),

48.c.vii

a supersession under article 11 of the 1998 Order ,

48.c.viii

an appeal under article 13 of the 1998 Order , or

48.c.ix

an appeal to the Commissioner under article 15 of the 1998 Order ,

48.d

of an alteration of the component or rate of award of Personal Independence
Payment which the individual was entitled to immediately before moving to
Scotland in circumstances in which regulation 52 (individuals in respect of
whom Personal Independence Payment is paid in another part of the United
Kingdom immediately before moving to Scotland) applies, as a result of a
decision made pursuant to—

48.d.i

a revision under Part 2 of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence
Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Decisions
and Appeals) Regulations 2013,

48.d.ii

a supersession under Part 3 of those Regulations,

48.d.iii

an appeal under section 12 of the Social Security Act 1998 (“ the 1998 Act ”),

48.d.iv

a re-consideration under section 13 of the 1998 Act,

48.d.v

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal under section 14 of the 1998 Act,

48.d.vi

a revision under article 10 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998 (“ the 1998 Order ”),

48.d.vii

a supersession under article 11 of the 1998 Order,

48.d.viii

an appeal under article 13 of the 1998 Order, or

48.d.ix

an appeal to the Commissioner under article 15 of the 1998 Order.

48.e

of an alteration of the component or rate of award of Disability Living
Allowance which the individual was entitled to immediately before the date of
transfer to Adult Disability Payment in accordance with regulation 4
(determination without application of entitlement to Adult Disability Payment)
of the Disability Assistance for Working Age People (Transitional Provisions
and Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland) Regulations 2022, as a result of a
decision made pursuant to—

48.e.i

revision under regulation 3 of the Social Security and Child Support
(Decisions and Appeals) Regulations 1999 (“ the 1999 Regulations ”),

48.e.ii

a supersession under regulation 6 of the 1999 Regulations,

48.e.iii

an appeal under section 12 of the Social Security Act 1998 (“ the 1998 Act ”),

48.e.iv

a re-consideration under section 13 of the 1998 Act ,

48.e.v

an appeal to the Upper Tribunal under section 14 of the 1998 Act,

48.e.vi

a revision under article 10 of the Social Security (Northern Ireland) Order
1998 (“ the 1998 Order ”),

48.e.vii

a supersession under article 11 of the 1998 Order,

48.e.viii

an appeal under article 13 of the 1998 Order, or

48.e.ix

an appeal to the Commissioner under article 15 of the 1998 Order.

#### Determination following official error – underpayments

49

49.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, without receiving an application,
where—

49.1.a

they have previously made a determination of the individual’s entitlement to
Adult Disability Payment (“the original determination”),

49.1.b

they establish that, due to an official error, the original determination was
incorrect resulting in the individual—

49.1.b.i

not being given an award of Adult Disability Payment, or

49.1.b.ii

being given a lower award than that,

to which the individual was entitled,

49.1.c

the Scottish Ministers are not considering a request for a re-determination of
the individual’s entitlement to the Payment, and

49.1.d

the individual has not appealed to the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland
against the Scottish Ministers’ determination of the individual’s entitlement
to Adult Disability Payment.

49.2

In making a determination required by paragraph (1) the Scottish Ministers are
to use—

49.2.a

the information—

49.2.a.i

provided in the application that led to the original determination,

49.2.a.ii

any other information they have obtained in connection with that application,
and

49.2.b

any other information they have obtained in connection with the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment.

49.3

In this regulation, “ official error ” means an error made by someone acting
on behalf of the Scottish Ministers or on behalf of a Minister of the Crown
that was not materially contributed to by anyone else.

#### Determination following error – overpayments

50

50.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, without receiving an application,
where—

50.1.a

they have previously made a determination of the individual’s entitlement to
Adult Disability Payment (“the original determination”),

50.1.b

they establish that, due to an error, the original determination was incorrect
resulting in the individual being given—

50.1.b.i

an award of Adult Disability Payment to which the individual was not entitled,
or

50.1.b.ii

a higher award than that to which the individual was entitled,

50.1.c

the Scottish Ministers are not considering a request for a re-determination of
the individual’s entitlement to the Payment, and

50.1.d

the individual has not made an appeal to the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland
or Upper Tribunal against the Scottish Ministers’ determination off the
individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, that has not yet been
determined.

50.2

In making a determination required by paragraph (1) the Scottish Ministers are
to use—

50.2.a

the information—

50.2.a.i

provided in the application that led to the original determination, and

50.2.a.ii

any other information they have obtained in connection with that application,

50.2.b

any other information they have obtained in connection with the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, and

50.2.c

any other information available to them that is relevant to their
consideration of whether the individual is entitled to Adult Disability
Payment.

50.3

In this regulation references to an “error” are to—

50.3.a

an error in the performance of a function conferred by these Regulations or
the 2018 Act, including a determination being made—

50.3.a.i

wrongly, or

50.3.a.ii

correctly but on the basis of—

50.3.a.ii.aa

incorrect information, or

50.3.a.ii.bb

an assumption which proves to be wrong, or

50.3.b

a new determination having not been made after an assumption on the basis of
which an earlier determination was made has proven to be wrong.

#### Determination to effect a deduction decision

51

51.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, without receiving an application,
where the circumstances in paragraphs (2) and (3) apply.

51.2

This paragraph applies where—

51.2.a

regulation 44 (form of payment – giving Adult Disability Payment by way of
deduction) allows Adult Disability Payment to be given to the individual by
way of deduction, or

51.2.b

Adult Disability Payment is being given to the individual by way of deduction,
and the Scottish Ministers consider that may no longer be appropriate.

51.3

This paragraph applies where the Scottish Ministers have decided to—

51.3.a

vary the amount of Adult Disability Payment to be given by way of deduction
(including introducing a deduction, where the full amount of Adult Disability
Payment was previously given as money),

51.3.b

vary any period for which the individual’s Adult Disability Payment is to be
given by way of deduction, that may have been specified in a previous
determination of the individual’s entitlement, or

51.3.c

cease making deductions, and instead give the individual’s Adult Disability
Payment in the form of money.

51.4

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination, without receiving an
application, where an individual who is receiving Adult Disability Payment by
way of deduction under a previous determination of entitlement notifies the
Scottish Ministers that the individual—

51.4.a

withdraws their agreement to their Adult Disability Payment being given by way
of deduction,

51.4.b

wishes the Scottish Ministers to increase the amount of their Adult Disability
Payment that is given by way of deduction,

51.4.c

wishes the Scottish Ministers to decrease the amount of their Adult Disability
Payment that is given by way of deduction (including ceasing the deduction),
or

51.4.d

wishes the Scottish Ministers to amend the length of any period referred to in
paragraph (3)(b).

### Movement of individuals between Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom

#### Individuals in respect of whom Personal Independence Payment is paid in another part of the United Kingdom immediately before moving to Scotland

52

52.1

Where an individual—

52.1.a

becomes resident in Scotland,

52.1.b

was resident in another part of the United Kingdom, and

52.1.c

was entitled to Personal Independence Payment immediately before the date of
the move,

the Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without application of the
individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment.

52.2

Entitlement to Adult Disability Payment under paragraph (1) begins on the day
after the day on which the individual’s entitlement to Personal Independence
Payment ends.

52.3

In this regulation, “the date of the move” is the date when the individual
becomes resident in Scotland, as notified by the individual or otherwise
communicated to the Scottish Ministers (whether the notification takes place
before or after the date of the move).

#### Individuals in respect of whom Adult Disability Payment is paid at the time of moving to another part of the United Kingdom

53

53.1

Where the Scottish Ministers become aware that an individual who is entitled
to Adult Disability Payment has moved or is to move to become resident in
another part of the United Kingdom, the individual is to be treated as though
the individual meets the condition under regulation 15(1)(a) of being
ordinarily resident in Scotland for a period of 13 weeks beginning in
accordance with paragraph (4).

53.2

Subject to Part 8 (effect of time spent in care homes, hospital and legal
detention), where the Scottish Ministers become aware that an individual has
moved or is to move to another part of the United Kingdom mentioned in
paragraph (1), they are to make a determination without application at the end
of the 13 week period mentioned in paragraph (1) that the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is to terminate.

53.3

Where before the end of the 13-week period, the Scottish Ministers become
aware that the individual is no longer to move to become resident in another
part of the United Kingdom, the duty in paragraph (2) does not apply.

53.4

The 13-week period mentioned in paragraph (1) begins on the date the
individual ceases to be ordinarily resident in Scotland.

53.5

On the day after the 13-week period specified in paragraph (4) ends—

53.5.a

entitlement to Adult Disability Payment ceases, and

53.5.b

regulation 50 (determination following error – overpayments) applies to any
Adult Disability Payment paid to an individual in relation to a period after
the end of that 13-week period.

### Periods in respect of a re-determination request

#### Periods in respect of a re-determination request

54

54.1

The period for requesting a re-determination of entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment under section 41 of the 2018 Act (right to request re-
determination) is 42 days beginning with the day that the individual is
informed, in accordance with section 40 of the 2018 Act (notice of
determination), of the right to make the request.

54.2

In relation to determining entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, the period
allowed for re-determination (within the meaning of section 43 of the 2018 Act
(duty to re-determine)) is 56 days beginning with—

54.2.a

the day that the request for a re-determination is received by the Scottish
Ministers,

54.2.b

in a case where the request for a re-determination is received by the Scottish
Ministers outwith the period prescribed in paragraph (1), the day on which it
is decided by the Scottish Ministers or (as the case may be) the First-tier
Tribunal for Scotland that the individual in question has a good reason for
not requesting a re-determination sooner, or

54.2.c

in a case where the Scottish Ministers have informed the individual of their
decision that the request for re-determination was not made in such form as
the Scottish Ministers require, the day on which it is subsequently decided by
the First-Tier Tribunal for Scotland that the individual in question has made
the request in such form as the Scottish Ministers require.

### Provision of vehicles

#### Payment of mobility component to authorised providers of vehicles for individuals with disabilities

55

55.1

Where—

55.1.a

an individual is entitled to the enhanced rate of the mobility component of
Adult Disability Payment, and

55.1.b

the individual has entered into an agreement with an authorised provider of
vehicles for persons with disabilities for the hire or hire-purchase of a
vehicle,

the Scottish Ministers may, with the consent of the individual, pay that
component (in whole or in part) to the provider to be used to meet, or
contribute towards meeting, the individual’s liability under the agreement.

55.2

The Scottish Ministers must cease to make payments in accordance with
paragraph (1) in the event that—

55.2.a

the agreement is brought to an end in accordance with the terms of the
agreement, or

55.2.b

the individual withdraws their consent.

#### Vehicles for persons with disabilities – powers of appointees

56

56.1

Where a person (“an appointee”) is appointed by the Scottish Ministers under
the 2018 Act to act on an individual’s behalf in connection with the
determination of the individual’s entitlement to assistance under section 24
(duty to give assistance) of the 2018 Act, in addition to the powers conferred
on the appointee by that Act the appointee can, on behalf of the individual—

56.1.a

enter into an agreement with an authorised provider of vehicles for the hire
or hire-purchase of a vehicle,

56.1.b

terminate any such agreement,

56.1.c

for the purpose of regulation 55(1), give consent to the Scottish Ministers to
pay (in whole or in part) the mobility component to which the individual is
entitled to the provider, and

56.1.d

withdraw any such consent.

56.2

An appointee may exercise the powers conferred by paragraphs (1)(b) and (d)
whether the agreement was entered into, or the consent given, by the appointee
or by any other person.

### Initial period for applications

#### Initial period for applications

57

Part 2 of schedule 2 makes provision about the initial period for
applications.

### Applications for Adult Disability Payment by individuals entitled to Child Disability Payment

#### Applications by individuals entitled to Child Disability Payment

58

58.1

This regulation applies where an individual who is entitled to Child
Disability Payment submits the required data in terms of regulation 35(4) on a
day on which the individual is still entitled to Child Disability Payment and
makes an application for Adult Disability Payment—

58.1.a

on a day on which the individual is still entitled to Child Disability
Payment,

58.1.b

on a day on which the individual is no longer entitled to Child Disability
Payment, where that day falls within the period of 8 weeks starting on the day
on which the individual submitted the required data, or

58.1.c

on a day on which the individual is no longer entitled to Child Disability
Payment, where that day is after the expiry of the 8 week period mentioned in
sub-paragraph (b) and the Scottish Ministers are satisfied that there is good
reason why the application was not made sooner.

58.2

Where, on the basis of that application, the Scottish Ministers make a
determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
(“Adult Disability Payment determination”), and on the date of that
determination—

58.2.a

the individual is still entitled to Child Disability Payment, the date on
which their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins is to be—

58.2.a.i

the day after the first day on which the individual is to be paid Child
Disability Payment after the date of the Adult Disability Payment
determination in accordance with regulation 25(b)(i) of the Disability
Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021, or

58.2.a.ii

7 days after the first day on which the individual is to be paid Child
Disability Payment after the date of the Adult Disability Payment
determination in accordance with regulation 25(b)(ii) of the Disability
Assistance for Children and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021,

58.2.b

the individual is no longer entitled to Child Disability Payment, the date on
which their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins is to be the date
on which the Scottish Ministers make the Adult Disability Payment
determination.

58.3

Where an individual receives a determination that they are entitled to a rate
of Adult Disability Payment which is higher than the rate of Child Disability
Payment they were entitled to immediately before their entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment begins, paragraph (4) applies.

58.4

The individual is to receive a payment equal to the value of Adult Disability
Payment they would have received for the period specified in paragraph (5),
reduced by the amount of Child Disability Payment that they were entitled to
for the same period.

58.5

The period specified for the purposes of paragraph (4) is the period between
the date—

58.5.a

their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment would have begun if this
regulation did not apply to the individual, in terms of regulation 35(4) to
(6), and

58.5.b

their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins in terms of paragraph
(2).

#### Determination without an application - terminal illness

59

59.1

Where an individual is entitled to Child Disability Payment and has a terminal
illness in terms of regulation 15 of the Disability Assistance for Children
and Young People (Scotland) Regulations 2021 , the Scottish Ministers are to
make a determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment, without receiving an application, where—

59.1.a

the individual—

59.1.a.i

has reached the age of 16, and

59.1.a.ii

makes a request that the Scottish Ministers make a determination of their
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment, or

59.1.b

the individual—

59.1.b.i

has reached the age of 18, and

59.1.b.ii

has not informed the Scottish Ministers that they do not want to receive Adult
Disability Payment.

59.2

Where the Scottish Ministers make a determination under paragraph (1)—

59.2.a

no judgement will be required in terms of regulation 26(7) and (8)
(entitlement under special rules for terminal illness), and

59.2.b

regulation 26 applies with the following modifications—

59.2.b.i

for paragraph (4), read “The individual’s entitlement to the rates referred to
in paragraph (1) begins on the date on which the Scottish Ministers make the
determination in terms of regulation 58(1).”, and

59.2.b.ii

paragraph (5) and (6) are omitted.

### Transfer from Personal Independence Payment to Adult Disability Payment

#### Transfer from Personal Independence Payment to Adult Disability Payment

60

Part 3 of schedule 2 makes provision about transferring from Personal
Independence Payment to Adult Disability Payment.

### Qualifications and experience necessary to carry out assessments

#### Qualifications and experience necessary to carry out assessments

61

61.1

A person is to be regarded as a suitably qualified person, within the meaning
of section 13(1) of the 2018 Act, for the purpose of carrying out assessments
if they satisfy the requirements specified in paragraph (2) or (4).

61.2

A person is a suitably qualified person for the purpose of carrying out
assessments under this paragraph if—

61.2.a

the person meets one of the conditions under paragraph (3),

61.2.b

the person has been employed in a capacity described in paragraph (3) in the
provision to individuals of health care or social care services,

61.2.c

where the assessment will involve consideration of the individual’s mental
condition or conditions, the person’s employment in the provision of health
care or social care services under paragraph (2)(b) included the provision of
health care or social care services to individuals with mental conditions, and

61.2.d

where the assessment will involve consideration of the individual’s learning
disability or disabilities, the person’s employment in the provision of health
care or social care services under paragraph (2)(b) included the provision of
health care or social care services to individuals with learning disabilities.

61.3

The conditions referred to in paragraph (2)(a) are that the person, at the
time of carrying out the assessment—

61.3.a

is an allied health professional with valid registration in the register
maintained by the Health and Care Professions Council under article 5 of the
Health Professions Order 2001 ,

61.3.b

is an adult, learning disability, or mental health nurse with valid
registration in the register maintained by the Nursing and Midwifery Council
under article 5 of the Nursing and Midwifery Order 2001 , or

61.3.c

is a social worker with valid registration in the register maintained by the
Scottish Social Services Council under section 44 of the Regulation of Care
(Scotland) Act 2001 .

61.4

A person is a suitably qualified person for the purpose of carrying out
assessments under this paragraph if—

61.4.a

the person has achieved a social care qualification to a minimum of Level 9 of
the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework ,

61.4.b

immediately prior to their employment for the purpose of carrying out
assessments, the person was registered as a social service worker in the
register maintained by the Scottish Social Services Council under section 44
of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001,

61.4.c

the person has been employed, in the provision to individuals of health care
or social care services, as a social service worker with valid registration in
the register maintained by the Scottish Social Services Council under section
44 of the Regulation of Care (Scotland) Act 2001,

61.4.d

where the assessment will involve consideration of the individual’s mental
condition or conditions, the person’s employment in the provision of health
care or social care services under paragraph (4)(c) included the provision of
health care or social care services to individuals with mental conditions, and

61.4.e

where the assessment will involve consideration of the individual’s learning
disability or disabilities, the person’s employment in the provision of health
care or social care services under paragraph (4)(c) included the provision of
health care or social care services to individuals with learning disabilities.

61.5

In this regulation, “ health and social care services ” means services which
require to be provided by an individual meeting the conditions under paragraph
(3) or (4)(c).

### Short-term assistance

#### Entitlement to short-term assistance

62

Part 1 of schedule 2 makes provision about short-term assistance.

### Consequential amendment

#### Consequential amendment

63

The amendment specified in Part 4 of schedule 2 has effect.

### Transitory provision

#### Transitory provision – initial period for applications

64

64.1

During the initial period for applications, in addition to meeting the
residence and presence conditions in Part 5, an individual must be resident in
one of the local authority areas specified in relation to the relevant phase
of that period in paragraph 6 of Part 2 of schedule 2 on the date their
application is received by the Scottish Ministers.

64.2

In this regulation and in Part 2 of schedule 2, “ initial period for
applications ” means the period beginning with 21 March 2022 and ending with
29 August 2022.

64.3

The initial period for applications comprises three phases—

64.3.a

phase 1, beginning with 21 March 2022 and ending with 19 June 2022,

64.3.b

phase 2, beginning with 20 June 2022 and ending with 24 July 2022, and

64.3.c

phase 3, beginning with 25 July 2022 and ending with 29 August 2022.

#### Exclusion to transitory provision

65

65.1

An individual who has made a claim for Personal Independence Payment prior to
21 March 2022 which has not yet been decided is not entitled to be paid Adult
Disability Payment during the initial period for applications.

65.2

In paragraph (1) a claim for Personal Independence Payment is decided if it
has—

65.2.a

been decided by the Secretary of State under section 8 (decisions by Secretary
of State) of the Social Security Act 1998 ,

65.2.b

been withdrawn in accordance with regulation 31 (withdrawal of claim) of the
Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment, Jobseeker’s Allowance and
Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and Payments) Regulations 2013 , or

65.2.c

otherwise is no longer to be decided by the Secretary of State as mentioned in
sub-paragraph (a).

      BEN MACPHERSON   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh

  ADULT DISABILITY PAYMENT DETERMINATION

Regulation 2

##### Interpretation

1

In this schedule—

    “ aided ” means with—       the use of an aid or appliance, or
supervision, prompting or assistance,             “ assistance ” means
physical intervention by another person and does not include speech,         “
assistance dog ” means a dog trained to guide or assist a person with a
sensory impairment,         “ basic verbal information ” means information in
the individual’s native language conveyed verbally in a simple sentence and
excludes information that is not communicated orally or received aurally,
“ basic written information ” means signs, symbols and dates written or
printed in standard size text in the individual’s native language,         “
bathe ” includes get into or out of an unadapted bath or shower,         “
communication support ” means support from a person trained or experienced in
communicating with people in general, or the individual in particular, with
specific communication needs, including interpreting verbal information into a
non-verbal form and vice versa,         “ complex budgeting decisions ” means
decisions involving—       calculating household and personal budgets,
managing and paying bills, and       planning future purchases,             “
complex verbal information ” means information in the individual’s native
language conveyed verbally in either more than one sentence or one complicated
sentence and excludes information that is not communicated orally or received
aurally,         “ complex written information ” means more than one sentence
of written or printed standard size text in the individual’s native language,
“ cook ” means heat food at or above waist height,         “ dress ” includes
put on socks and shoes,         “ engage socially ” means—       interact with
others in a contextually and socially appropriate manner,       understand
body language, and       establish relationships,             “ follow the
route of a journey ” means for an individual to navigate and make their way
along a planned route to a planned destination,         “ manage incontinence
” means manage involuntary evacuation of the bowel or bladder, including using
a collecting device or self-catheterisation, and clean oneself afterwards,
“ manage medication ” means take medication which improves the individual’s
symptoms or health, or, take medication where failure to do so is likely to
result in a deterioration in the individual’s health,         “ manage therapy
” means undertake therapy which improves the individual’s symptoms or health,
or, undertake therapy where a failure to do so is likely to result in a
deterioration in the individual’s health,         “ medication ” means
medication to be taken at home which is prescribed or recommended by a—
registered—     medical practitioner,       nurse,       pharmacist, or
health professional who is registered by the Health and Care Professions
Council,             “ monitor a health condition ” means—       detect
significant changes in the individual’s health condition which are likely to
lead to a deterioration in the individual’s health, and       take action
advised by a—     registered medical practitioner,       registered nurse, or
health professional who is registered by the Health and Care Professions
Council,       without which the individual’s health is likely to deteriorate,
“ orientation aid ” means a specialist aid designed to assist disabled people
to follow a route safely,         “prepare”, in the context of food, means
make food ready for cooking or eating,         “ prompting ” means reminding,
encouraging or explaining by another person,         “ psychological distress
” means distress related to an enduring mental condition or an intellectual or
cognitive impairment,         “ read ” includes read signs, symbols and words
but does not include read Braille,         “ simple budgeting decisions ”
means decisions involving—       calculating the cost of goods, and
calculating change required after a purchase,             “ simple meal ”
means a cooked one-course meal for one using fresh ingredients,         “
social support ” means support from a person trained or experienced in
assisting people in general, or the individual in particular, to engage in
social situations,         “ stand ” means stand upright with at least one
biological foot on the ground,         “ supervision ” means the continuous
presence of another person for the purpose of ensuring an individual’s safety,
“ take nutrition ” means—       cut food into pieces, convey food and drink to
one’s mouth and chew and swallow food and drink, or       ingest nutrition by
using a therapeutic source,             “ therapeutic source ” means
parenteral or enteral tube feeding, using a rate-limiting device such as a
delivery system or feed pump,         “ therapy ” means therapy to be
undertaken at home which is prescribed or recommended by a—       registered—
medical practitioner,       nurse, or       pharmacist, or             health
professional regulated by Health and Care Professions Council,       but does
not include taking or applying, or otherwise receiving or administering,
medication (whether orally, topically or by any other means), or any action
which, in the individual’s case, falls within the definition of “monitor a
health condition”,         “ toilet needs ” means—       getting on and off an
unadapted toilet,       evacuating the bladder and bowel, and       cleaning
oneself afterwards,             “ unaided ” means without—       the use or
aid of an appliance, or       supervision, prompting or assistance,
“ undress ” includes take off socks and shoes.

##### Daily Living Activities

      Column 1   Activity   Column 2   Descriptors   Column 3   Points     1.
Preparing food. a. Can prepare and cook a simple meal unaided. 0 b. Needs to
use an aid or appliance to be able to either prepare or cook a simple meal. 2
c. Cannot cook a simple meal using a conventional cooker but is able to do so
using a microwave. 2 d. Needs prompting to be able to either prepare or cook a
simple meal. 2 e. Needs supervision or assistance to either prepare or cook a
simple meal. 4 f. Cannot prepare and cook food. 8 2. Taking nutrition. a. Can
take nutrition unaided. 0 b. Needs—   (i) to use an aid or appliance to be
able to take nutrition, or   (ii) supervision to be able to take nutrition, or
(iii) assistance to be able to cut up food.   2 c. Needs a therapeutic source
to be able to take nutrition. 2 d. Needs prompting to be able to take
nutrition. 4 e. Needs assistance to be able to manage a therapeutic source to
take nutrition. 6 f. Cannot convey food and drink to their mouth and needs
another person to do so. 10 3. Managing therapy or monitoring a health
condition. a. Either—   (i) does not receive medication or therapy or need to
monitor a health condition, or   (ii) can manage medication or therapy or
monitor a health condition unaided.   0 b. Needs any one or more of the
following—   (i) to use an aid or appliance to be able to manage medication,
(ii) supervision, prompting or assistance to be able to manage medication,
(iii) supervision, prompting or assistance to be able to monitor a health
condition.   1 c. Needs supervision, prompting or assistance to be able to
manage therapy that takes no more than 3.5 hours a week. 2 d. Needs
supervision, prompting or assistance to be able to manage therapy that takes
more than 3.5 but no more than 7 hours a week. 4 e. Needs supervision,
prompting or assistance to be able to manage therapy that takes more than 7
but no more than 14 hours a week. 6 f. Needs supervision, prompting or
assistance to be able to manage therapy that takes more than 14 hours a week.
8 4. Washing and bathing. a. Can wash and bathe unaided. 0 b. Needs to use an
aid or appliance to be able to wash or bathe. 2 c. Needs supervision or
prompting to be able to wash or bathe. 2 d. Needs assistance to be able to
wash either their hair or body below the waist. 2 e. Needs assistance to be
able to get in or out of an unadapted bath or shower. 3 f. Needs assistance to
be able to wash their body between the shoulders and waist. 4 g. Cannot wash
and bathe at all and needs another person to wash their entire body. 8 5.
Managing toilet needs or incontinence. a. Can manage toilet needs or
incontinence unaided. 0 b. Needs to use an aid or appliance to be able to
manage toilet needs or incontinence. 2 c. Needs supervision or prompting to be
able to manage toilet needs. 2 d. Needs assistance to be able to manage toilet
needs. 4 e. Needs assistance to be able to manage incontinence of either
bladder or bowel. 6 f. Needs assistance to be able to manage incontinence of
both bladder and bowel. 8 6. Dressing and undressing. a. Can dress and undress
unaided. 0 b. Needs to use an aid or appliance to be able to dress or undress.
2 c. Needs either—   (i) prompting to be able to dress, undress or determine
appropriate circumstances for remaining clothed, or   (ii) prompting or
assistance to be able to select appropriate clothing.   2 d. Needs assistance
to be able to dress or undress their lower body. 2 e. Needs assistance to be
able to dress or undress their upper body. 4 f. Cannot dress or undress at
all. 8 7. Communicating verbally. a. Can express and understand basic and
complex verbal information unaided. 0 b. Needs to use an aid or appliance to
be able to speak or hear. 2 c. Needs communication support to be able to
express or understand complex verbal information. 4 d. Needs communication
support to be able to express or understand basic verbal information. 8 e.
Cannot express or understand verbal information at all even with communication
support. 12 8. Reading and understanding signs, symbols and words. a. Can read
and understand basic and complex written information either unaided or using
spectacles or contact lenses. 0 b. Needs to use an aid or appliance, other
than spectacles or contact lenses, to be able to read or understand either
basic or complex written information. 2 c. Needs prompting to be able to read
or understand complex written information. 2 d. Needs prompting to be able to
read or understand basic written information. 4 e. Cannot read or understand
signs, symbols or words at all. 8 9. Engaging socially with other people face
to face. a. Can engage socially with other people unaided. 0 b. Needs
prompting to be able to engage socially with other people. 2 c. Needs social
support to be able to engage socially with other people. 4 d. Cannot engage
socially with other people due to such engagement causing either—   (i)
overwhelming psychological distress to the individual, or   (ii) the
individual to exhibit behaviour which would result in substantial risk of harm
to the individual or another person.   8 10. Making budgeting decisions. a.
Can manage complex budgeting decisions unaided. 0 b. Needs prompting or
assistance to be able to make complex budgeting decisions. 2 c. Needs
prompting or assistance to be able to make simple budgeting decisions. 4 d.
Cannot make any budgeting decisions at all. 6

##### Mobility Activities

      Column 1   Activity   Column 2   Descriptors   Column 3   Points     1.
Planning and following journeys. a. Can plan and follow the route of a journey
unaided. 0 b. Needs the prompting of another person to be able to undertake
any journey to avoid overwhelming psychological distress to the individual. 4
c. Cannot plan the route of a journey. 8 d. Cannot follow the route of an
unfamiliar journey without another person, assistance dog or orientation aid.
10 e. Cannot undertake any journey because it would cause overwhelming
psychological distress to the individual. 10 f. Cannot follow the route of a
familiar journey without another person, an assistance dog or an orientation
aid. 12 2. Moving around. a. Can stand and then move more than 200 metres,
either aided or unaided. 0 b. Can stand and then move more than 50 metres but
no more than 200 metres, either aided or unaided. 4 c. Can stand and then move
unaided more than 20 metres but no more than 50 metres either aided or
unaided. 8 d. Can stand and then move using an aid or appliance more than 20
metres but no more than 50 metres, either aided or unaided. 10 e. Can stand
and then move more than 1 metre but no more than 20 metres, either aided or
unaided. 12 f. Cannot, either aided or unaided,—   (i) stand, or   (ii) move
more than 1 metre.   12

##### Short-term assistance

Regulation 2

###### Entitlement to short-term assistance

1

1.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5) and (6), an individual who is, or was, entitled
to Disability Payment under a determination made on the basis that the
individual has ongoing entitlement is entitled to short-term assistance where—

1.1.a

that determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
(“ the earlier determination ”) has been superseded by—

1.1.a.i

a determination under section 37 of the 2018 Act, or

1.1.a.ii

if the earlier determination is a determination—

1.1.a.ii.aa

of an application for Adult Disability Payment,

1.1.a.ii.bb

without application of an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
under paragraph 9 of this schedule (determination without application of
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment),

1.1.a.ii.cc

without application of an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
under regulation 52 (individuals in respect of whom Personal Independence
Payment is paid in another part of the United Kingdom immediately before
moving to Scotland),

1.1.a.ii.dd

without application of an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability payment
under regulation 4 (transfer determination without application of entitlement
to Adult Disability Payment) of the Disability Assistance for Working Age
People (Transitional Provisions and Miscellaneous Amendment) (Scotland)
Regulations 2022,

a determination under section 43 (Scottish Ministers’ duty to re-determine) or
section 49 (First-tier Tribunal’s power to determine entitlement on appeal) of
the 2018 Act,

1.1.b

as a result of—

1.1.b.i

the earlier determination being superseded as mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(a), or

1.1.b.ii

a later determination under section 43 or section 49 of the 2018 Act in
relation to the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment for the
period to which the determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(i) or the
earlier determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) relates,

the individual—

1.1.b.iii

is no longer entitled to Adult Disability Payment, or

1.1.b.iv

is entitled to less Adult Disability Payment than they were under the earlier
determination,

1.1.c

the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is under review
within the meaning of—

1.1.c.i

paragraph 1(2) of schedule 10 of the 2018 Act, or

1.1.c.ii

sub-paragraph (2), and

1.1.d

the individual—

1.1.d.i

continues to meet the conditions as to residence and presence set out in Part
5, or

1.1.d.ii

has transferred to become resident in another part of the United Kingdom, and
the matter under review is the determination of entitlement for the 13-week
period beginning in accordance with regulation 53 (individuals in respect of
whom Adult Disability Payment is paid at the time of moving to another part of
the United Kingdom).

1.2

An individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is under review in
terms of sub-paragraph   (1)(c)(ii)   if—

1.2.a

a decision of the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland under section 49 of the
2018 Act, in relation to the   individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment for the period to which the determination mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(a)(i) or the earlier determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii)
relates , is set aside after a review under section 43(2) of the Tribunals
(Scotland) Act 2014  (“ the 2014 Act ”), and

1.2.b

the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland decide not to uphold a determination of
an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment in an appeal under
section 46 of the 2018 Act and the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland are to
make a determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment under section 49 of the 2018 Act.

1.3

Where—

1.3.a

an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is set aside after a
review in terms of sub-paragraph (2)(a), and

1.3.b

the individual had previously been awarded short-term assistance on the basis
that their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment was under review by the
First-tier Tribunal prior to it making the decision that has been set aside,

the Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without application of the
individual’s entitlement to short-term assistance.

1.4

Where—

1.4.a

the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland set aside a decision by the Scottish
Ministers not to accept a request for a re-determination of the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) (i)
, and

1.4.b

the Scottish Ministers had previously determined, pursuant to an application
made by the individual, that the individual was not entitled to short-term
assistance on the basis that the   determination mentioned in sub-paragraph
(1)(a)(i)   was not under review,

the Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without application of the
individual’s entitlement to short-term assistance.

1.5

An individual is not entitled to short-term assistance where the individual is
no longer entitled to Adult Disability Payment as a result of a subsequent
determination made under regulation 48(b) (determination following change of
circumstances etc.).

1.6

In this part of the schedule “ the earlier determination ” has the meaning
given in sub-paragraph (1)(a).

1.6

An individual to whom regulation 27(2) (effect of admission to a care home on
ongoing entitlement to daily living component), regulation 28(2) (effect of
admission to hospital on ongoing entitlement to Adult Disability Payment),
regulation 30(3) (effect of legal detention on ongoing entitlement to daily
living component), or regulation 32(2) (entitlement beginning while in
alternative accommodation) applies is not entitled to short-term assistance in
respect of the component or components for which the value is to be £0 under
those regulations.

1.7

Where the Scottish Ministers have made a determination under section 37 of the
2018 Act (duty to make determination) that an individual is entitled to short-
term assistance, entitlement to short-term assistance begins—

1.7.a

where a request is made under section 41 of the 2018 Act (right to request re-
determination) for a re-determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment   for the period to which the determination  mentioned in
sub-paragraph (1)(a) (i) relates , on the day that request is made,

1.7.b

where a notice of appeal is submitted under section 47 of the 2018 Act
(initiating an appeal) against   a determination   of the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment   for the period to which the
determination  mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) (i) or the earlier
determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) relates , on the day that
request is made,

1.7.c

where a decision of the Scottish Ministers is made not to accept a request for
a re-determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
for the period to which the determination  mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)
(i) relates , on the day that decision is set aside by the First-tier Tribunal
for Scotland,

1.7.d

where a request is made under section 48(1)(b) of the 2018 Act (deadline for
appealing) for permission to appeal   a determination   of the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment   for the period to which the
determination  mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) (i) or the earlier
determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) relates , on the day that
request is made, or

1.7.e

where a decision of the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland under section 49 of
the 2018 Act, in relation to   a   determination of the individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment   for the period to which the
determination  mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a) (i) or the earlier
determination mentioned in sub-paragraph (1)(a)(ii) relates , is set aside
after a review under section 43(2) of the 2014 Act (review of decisions) and
the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland are to   make a decision about   the
individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment   for the period to which
the determination  under section 49 of the 2018 Act, on the day that the
decision is set aside.

1.8

Regulation 54 (periods in respect of a re-determination request) applies to
short-term assistance in the same way as it applies to Adult Disability
Payment.

###### Value and form

2

2.1

The value of short-term assistance payable for any period is equal to V1-V2
where—

2.1.a

V1 is the value of the Adult Disability Payment the individual would have been
given in respect of the period under the earlier determination had the earlier
determination not been superseded, and

2.1.b

V2 is the value of the Adult Disability Payment that the individual is to be
given in respect of the period under what is, at the time the individual
becomes eligible for short-term assistance in respect of the period, the most
recent determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment.

2.2

The form in which the short-term assistance is to be given is to be the same
as the form in which Adult Disability Payment was given under the earlier
determination.

2.3

Where the mobility component was being paid by the Scottish Ministers to an
authorised provider of vehicles for persons with disabilities in accordance
with regulation 55(1) (payment of mobility component to authorised provider of
vehicles for individuals with disabilities) on the day before an individual’s
entitlement to the mobility component ended as a result of a subsequent
determination mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a)—

2.3.a

the amount of short-term assistance that is payable in respect of the mobility
component may be paid by the Scottish Ministers to the authorised provider,
and

2.3.b

paragraphs (1) and (2) of regulation 55 apply to the payment of short-term
assistance as they had applied to the payment of mobility component prior to
the individual’s entitlement ending.

2.4

Regulations 44 (form of payment - giving Adult Disability Payment by way of
deduction), 49 (determination following official error – underpayments), 50
(determination following error – overpayments) and 51 (determination to effect
a deduction decision) apply to short-term assistance in the same way as they
apply to Adult Disability Payment.

###### End of entitlement

3

3.1

When an individual’s entitlement to short-term assistance is to end under sub-
paragraph (2), the Scottish Ministers are to make a determination without
application.

3.2

Entitlement to short-term assistance ends on the day—

3.2.a

a determination of an individual’s entitlement to short-term assistance is
cancelled under section 26(2) of the 2018 Act (individual’s right to stop
receiving assistance),

3.2.b

a re-determination of an individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
is made by the Scottish Ministers under section 43 of the 2018 Act (duty to
re-determine),

3.2.c

the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland makes a determination under section 49 of
the 2018 Act (First-tier Tribunal’s power to determine entitlement) in
relation to  ... the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment
for the period to which the determination  mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a) (i)
or the earlier determination mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a)(ii) relates ,

3.2.d

that the First-tier Tribunal for Scotland makes a determination to refuse
permission under section 48(1)(b) of the 2018 Act (deadline for appealing) to
bring an appeal against the  ... determination of the individual’s entitlement
to Adult Disability Payment   for the period to which the determination
mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a) (i) or the earlier determination mentioned in
paragraph 1(1)(a)(ii) relates , or

3.2.e

where the individual withdraws their application to bring an appeal against
the  ... determination of the individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment   for the period to which the determination  mentioned in paragraph
1(1)(a) (i) or the earlier determination mentioned in paragraph 1(1)(a)(ii)
relates , on that day.

###### Reduction of Adult Disability Payment where short-term assistance is paid

4

Where an individual has received short-term assistance for a period and a
determination is subsequently made that the individual is entitled to Adult
Disability Payment for the same period, any payment of Adult Disability
Payment to be made as a result of the subsequent determination for that
period—

4.a

where the individual is to be paid Adult Disability Payment at the same rate
as or a lower rate than any short-term assistance and any Adult Disability
Payment already paid to that individual for that period, is to be reduced to
£0, and

4.b

in any other case, is to be reduced by any short-term assistance and any Adult
Disability Payment already paid to that individual for that period.

##### Initial period for applications

Regulation 57

###### Initial period for applications

5

5.1

These Regulations apply to an individual who is resident in one of the local
authority areas mentioned in paragraph 6 when the individual makes an
application for Adult Disability Payment during the initial period for
applications.

5.2

An individual who is awarded Adult Disability Payment pursuant to an
application made during the initial period for applications will continue to
be entitled if that person moves to another local authority area in Scotland.

###### Local authority areas for initial period for applications

6

The local authority areas specified for the purposes of regulation 64 are—

6.a

in phase 1, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee and Western Isles,

6.b

in phase 2, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee, Western Isles, Angus,
North Lanarkshire and South Lanarkshire,

6.c

in phase 3, Perthshire and Kinross, City of Dundee, Western Isles, Angus,
North Lanarkshire, South Lanarkshire, Fife, City of Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire,
Moray, North Ayrshire, East Ayrshire and South Ayrshire.

##### Transfer from Personal Independence Payment to Adult Disability Payment

Regulation 60

###### Interpretation

7

In this Part of the schedule—

“ date of transfer ” means the date when a transferring individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins by virtue of a determination
made under paragraph 9(1), “ relevant individual ” means an individual— who
has an award of Personal Independence Payment who appears to the Scottish
Ministers to be likely to be eligible for Adult Disability Payment, and who
is— ordinarily resident in Scotland, or someone to whom regulation 15(3)
(residence and presence conditions) or 20(2) (persons residing outside the
United Kingdom to whom a relevant EU regulation applies) applies, “ sufficient
” means a link to Scotland that is sufficiently close that regulations 15(3)
or 20(2) would be incompatible with the applicable agreement mentioned in that
regulation, if the relevant individual were not entitled to Adult Disability
Payment, “ transfer notice ” means the notice required by paragraph 8, and “
transferring individual ” means   an individual   on whom the Scottish
Ministers have served a notice of intention to transfer in accordance with
paragraph 8.

###### Notice of intention to transfer to Adult Disability Payment

8

8.1

The Scottish Ministers are to notify each relevant individual of their
intention to transfer that individual’s entitlement to disability assistance
from an entitlement to Personal Independence Payment to an entitlement to
Adult Disability Payment.

8.2

Notice under sub-paragraph (1) must—

8.2.a

be given in a way that leaves the relevant individual with a record of the
information which they can show to, or otherwise share with, others,

8.2.b

inform the relevant individual that—

8.2.b.i

they have been identified as a relevant individual for the purposes of
transfer to Adult Disability Payment,

8.2.b.ii

the Scottish Ministers will make a determination, without receiving an
application, to transfer the individual’s entitlement to Personal Independence
Payment to an entitlement to Adult Disability Payment within a period to be
specified within the notice (the individual will be notified when the
determination is made and informed about their award and start date of Adult
Disability Payment), and

8.2.b.iii

the individual’s award of Personal Independence Payment will cease immediately
before the award of Adult Disability Payment begins.

8.3

                        Where a notice under sub-paragraph (1) is given—

8.3.a

to a transferring individual who, before a determination is made under
paragraph 9(1), ceases to be ordinarily resident in Scotland, or

8.3.b

in error where the individual is neither—

8.3.b.i

ordinarily resident in Scotland, nor

8.3.b.ii

an individual who is habitually resident in an EEA state, Gibraltar or
Switzerland and has a genuine and sufficient link to Scotland,

the duty on the Scottish Ministers in paragraph 9(1) does not apply.

8.4

Where sub-paragraph (3) applies in respect of an individual and a
determination under paragraph 9(1) has not been made, the Scottish Ministers
are to notify the individual that the duty on the Scottish Ministers in
paragraph 9(1) does not apply.

###### Determination without application of entitlement to Adult Disability Payment

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers are to make a determination in respect of a
transferring individual, without receiving an application, of that
individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment.

9.2

Entitlement to Adult Disability Payment under a determination under sub-
paragraph (1) begins on the date specified in the notice of determination
given to the transferring individual in accordance with section 40 of the 2018
Act .

9.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (4), the determination under sub-paragraph (1) is to
be made on the basis of—

9.3.a

such information as the Scottish Ministers have received from the Secretary of
State for Work and Pensions in respect of the transferring individual’s
entitlement to Personal Independence Payment, and

9.3.b

any other information available to the Scottish Ministers that appears to them
to be relevant.

9.4

The determination under sub-paragraph (1) does not need to be made on the
basis of the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (3)(b) where—

9.4.a

the individual—

9.4.a.i

before receiving a notice under paragraph 8(1), reported a change of
circumstances to the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, which has not
been taken into account for the individual’s entitlement to Personal
Independence Payment, or

9.4.a.ii

has, since receiving a notice under paragraph 8(1), notified a change of
circumstances to the Scottish Ministers, and

9.4.b

following the determination under sub-paragraph (1) a further determination is
to be made under paragraph 12.

9.5

Subject to paragraph 11, a determination under sub-paragraph (1) must be made
on the basis that the transferring individual is entitled to the components
and rates of Adult Disability Payment that are equivalent to those components
and rates of Personal Independence Payment to which the individual was
entitled immediately before the date of transfer.

9.6

A determination under sub-paragraph (1)—

9.6.a

may be made on the assumption that whatever can be discerned about the
transferring individual’s circumstances from the information mentioned in sub-
paragraph (3) remains accurate on the date on which the determination is made,

9.6.b

notwithstanding the generality of head (a), is to be made on the assumption
that the conditions relating to residence and presence set out in regulations
15 to 21 (residence and presence conditions etc.) are satisfied in the
individual’s case, and

9.6.c

must be made not later than the end of the period specified within the notice
under paragraph 8(1) unless the Scottish Ministers have—

9.6.c.i

good reason to extend that period,

9.6.c.ii

agreed the period for extension with the Secretary of State for Work and
Pensions, and

9.6.c.iii

notified the transferring individual of the extension and the reason for it.

###### Effect of determination on entitlement to Personal Independence Payment

10

10.1

Where a determination is made under paragraph 9(1) that the transferring
individual is entitled to Adult Disability Payment, the transferring
individual’s entitlement to Personal Independence Payment will cease on—

10.1.a

the date their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins,

10.1.b

where a transferring individual was paid Personal Independence Payment one
week in advance and 3 weekly in arrears, the date one week after the date
their entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins, or

10.1.c

where paragraph 11 applies, the date their entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment would have begun had paragraph 11(2) not applied to set an earlier
date of entitlement.

10.2

Where paragraph (1)(b) applies—

10.2.a

section 77(4) (personal independence payment) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 ,
and

10.2.b

regulation 4(e) of these Regulations (entitlement to other benefits),

do not apply in respect of the first week of entitlement to Adult Disability
Payment.

###### Exceptions to paragraph 9(5)

11

11.1

Where the Scottish Ministers have—

11.1.a

received information from the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions that
the transferring individual is terminally ill in terms of section 82 of the
Welfare Reform Act 2012  immediately before the date of transfer, or

11.1.b

not received information from the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions
that the transferring individual is terminally ill in terms of section 82 of
the Welfare Reform Act 2012, but become aware, before they have made a
determination under paragraph 9(1), that a transferring individual has a
terminal illness in terms of regulation 26(7),

  except where sub-paragraph (1A) applies,  the determination made under
paragraph 9(1) must be made on the basis that the transferring individual
satisfies the conditions for the enhanced rate of both the daily living
component and the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment.

11.1A

Where the transferring individual reached the relevant age as defined in
regulation 22(2) when they became terminally ill under section 82 of the
Welfare Reform Act 2012  or in terms of regulation 26(7), the restrictions in
sub-paragraph (1B) apply in relation to the determination under paragraph
9(1).

11.1B

The restrictions referred to in sub-paragraph (1A) are—

11.1B.a

where the transferring individual was entitled to the mobility component of
Personal Independence Payment at the standard rate immediately before the date
of transfer, then regardless of whether the award would otherwise have been
for the enhanced rate, the Scottish Ministers—

11.1B.a.i

may only make an award for the standard rate of that component, and

11.1B.a.ii

may only make such an award where the entitlement results from substantially
the same condition or conditions in respect of which the mobility component of
Personal Independence payment was given,

11.1B.b

where the transferring individual was entitled to the mobility component of
Personal Independence Payment at the enhanced rate immediately before the date
of transfer, the Scottish Ministers may only award that rate of that component
where entitlement results from substantially the same condition or conditions
in respect of which the mobility component of Personal Independence Payment
was given,

11.1B.c

where the transferring individual was not entitled to the mobility component
of Personal Independence Payment immediately before the date of transfer, the
Scottish Ministers may not award that component at either the standard or
enhanced rate.

11.2

Where sub-paragraph (1)  or (1A)   applies—

11.2.a

paragraphs (4) to (6) of regulation 26 do not apply, and

11.2.b

the transferring individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment will
commence on whichever is the later of—

11.2.b.i

the date that these Regulations come into force,

11.2.b.ii

the day that the clinical judgement was made in accordance with regulation
26(7), or

11.2.b.iii

the day one year before the determination was made in accordance with
paragraph 9(1).

###### Change of Circumstances

12

12.1

The Scottish Ministers must make a determination of an individual’s
entitlement to Adult Disability Payment (the “review determination”), without
receiving an application, where—

12.1.a

the individual, before a determination under paragraph 9(1) (the “transfer
determination”) is made, reported a change of circumstances to the Secretary
of State for Work and Pensions, which had not been taken into account for the
individual’s entitlement to Personal Independence Payment,

12.1.b

the Scottish Ministers have made a transfer determination, and

12.1.c

the individual has not requested a re-determination under section 41 of the
2018 Act, or appealed under section 46 of the 2018 Act, in relation to the
transfer determination.

12.2

The review determination is to be made as soon as reasonably practicable after
the transfer determination.

12.3

The change of circumstance notified under sub-paragraph (1)—

12.3.a

is not to be regarded as relating to the individual’s entitlement to Personal
Independence Payment, and

12.3.b

is to be taken into consideration by the Scottish Ministers in making the
review determination.

12.4

Where a transferring individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is
determined in the review determination to be at a higher rate than the
transfer determination, entitlement will begin—

12.4.a

if the individual notifies the change—

12.4.a.i

within one month of the change occurring, the date when the individual first
satisfies the requirements for a higher rate of the   daily living   or
mobility component,

12.4.a.ii

within more than one month but not more than 13 months of the change
occurring, the date when the individual first satisfies the requirements for a
higher rate of the   daily living   or mobility component, but only if the
Scottish Ministers consider that the individual had good reason for not
notifying the change within one month,

12.4.a.iii

in any other case, from the date of notification of the change, or

12.4.b

if the date under sub-paragraph 4(a) is before these Regulations come into
force, the date that these Regulations come into force.

12.5

Where a transferring individual’s entitlement to Adult Disability Payment is
determined in the review determination to be at a lower rate than or at the
same rate as awarded by the transfer determination, entitlement under the
review determination will take effect on the day that the Scottish Ministers
make the review determination.

12.6

Where an individual has previously received Personal Independence Payment or
Adult Disability Payment for a period and a review determination is
subsequently made that the same individual is entitled to Adult Disability
Payment at a higher rate for that period by virtue of this paragraph, that
individual will be entitled to the difference between the value of entitlement
to Adult Disability Payment under the review determination and the value of
Personal Independence Payment or Adult Disability Payment to which that
individual was previously entitled for that period.

12.7

Where the change of circumstance notified under sub-paragraph (1) occurred
after the person had reached the relevant age as defined in regulation 22(2),
the restrictions in sub-paragraph (8) will apply in relation to the
determination under sub-paragraph (1).

12.8

The restrictions referred to in sub-paragraph (7) are—

12.8.a

where the transfer determination awarded the mobility component at the
standard rate then, regardless of whether the award would have otherwise been
for the enhanced rate, the Scottish Ministers—

12.8.a.i

may only make an award for the standard rate of that component, and

12.8.a.ii

may only make such an award where entitlement results from substantially the
same condition or conditions in respect of which the mobility component in the
transfer determination was given,

12.8.b

where the transfer determination awarded the mobility component at the
enhanced rate, the Scottish Ministers may only award that rate of that
component where entitlement results from substantially the same condition or
conditions in respect of which the mobility component in the transfer
determination was given,

12.8.c

where the transfer determination did not include an award of the mobility
component, the Scottish Ministers may not award that component at either the
standard or enhanced rate.

###### Effect of legal detention on payment of the mobility component: 16 and 17 year olds

13

13.1

Sub-paragraph (2) and (3) apply where a transferring individual—

13.1.a

is aged 16 or 17 on the date of transfer,

13.1.b

was in legal detention immediately before the date of transfer, and

13.1.c

was entitled to the mobility component of Personal Independence Payment
immediately before the date of transfer.

13.2

Entitlement to the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment of a
transferring individual mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) is to begin before the
date of the determination under paragraph 9(1) but not before 13 June 2022.

13.3

Where the transferring individual has received payment of the mobility
component of Personal Independence Payment for any period after the date on
which their entitlement to the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment
commences under sub-paragraph (2), any payment of Adult Disability Payment to
be made for that period is to be reduced by the amount already paid to the
transferring individual for the mobility component of Personal Independence
Payment for that period.

###### Modification of these Regulations: transferring individuals

14

These Regulations apply to a transferring individual on and after the date of
transfer with the following modifications—

14.a

regulation 32 (entitlement beginning while in alternative accommodation) is to
be read as if—

14.a.i

in paragraph (1) after “begins” there are the words “in terms of Part 3 of
schedule 2”, and

14.a.ii

in paragraph (2) for “that day” reads “the day on which the individual has
been entitled to Adult Disability Payment for 28 days”,

14.b

regulation 35 (when an application is to be treated as made and beginning of
entitlement to assistance) is treated as omitted,

14.ba

in regulation 36, for sub-paragraph (b), substitute—

14.ba.b

any subsequent payment—

14.ba.b.i

4 weekly in arrears,

14.ba.b.ii

weekly in advance, or

14.ba.b.iii

where the Scottish Ministers consider that it would be unjust not to do so, at
such intervals as may be specified in the notice of determination.

,

14.c

in regulation 45—

14.c.i

for paragraph (4) substitute—

14.c.i.4

Where an individual has previously received Adult Disability Payment or
Personal Independence Payment for a period and a determination without
application has subsequently been made that the individual is entitled to
Adult Disability Payment at a higher rate for that period, the individual will
be entitled to the difference between the value of entitlement to Adult
Disability Payment under the subsequent determination and the value of Adult
Disability Payment or Personal Independence Payment to which that individual
was previously entitled for that period.

,

14.c.ii

where regulation 45(4) as substituted by sub-paragraph (1) applies, for the
period between the date when the individual’s entitlement to a higher rate of
Adult Disability Payment begins and the date of the determination under
regulation 46, regulation 4 (entitlement to other benefits) is treated as
omitted, and

14.d

where paragraph 11, 12(6) or 13(3) applies, for the period between the date
when entitlement to Adult Disability Payment begins and the date of the
determination under paragraph 9(1), regulation 4 (entitlement to other
benefits) is treated as omitted.

###### Appointees

15

15.1

A person appointed by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under
regulation 57 of the Universal Credit, Personal Independence Payment,
Jobseeker’s Allowance and Employment and Support Allowance (Claims and
Payments) Regulations 2013  to receive Personal Independence Payment on behalf
of a transferring individual is to be treated on and after the date of
transfer as though appointed by the Scottish Ministers to act on behalf of
that transferring individual under section 85B of the 2018 Act .

15.2

As soon as reasonably practicable after the date of transfer, the Scottish
Ministers must—

15.2.a

consider whether the conditions for making an appointment in respect of the
transferring individual are met (having regard to section 85B(3) of the 2018
Act),

15.2.b

consider whether to terminate the appointment that is treated as having been
made by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) and terminate it if they consider it
appropriate, and

15.2.c

if they have terminated an appointment in pursuance of head (b), appoint under
section 85B of the 2018 Act another person to act on the transferring
individual’s behalf if they consider it appropriate to do so.

15.3

                        The duty in sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the
Scottish Ministers have already appointed the person mentioned in sub-
paragraph (1) to act on behalf of that transferring individual under section
85B of the 2018 Act.

##### Consequential amendments

Regulation 63

16

16.1

The Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992  is amended in
accordance with paragraph (2).

16.2

In section 70(2)  (invalid care allowance), for “disability assistance by
virtue of entitlement to the care component at the middle or highest rate
under regulations made under section 31 of the Social Security (Scotland) Act
2018” substitute  “adult disability payment by virtue of entitlement to the
daily living component at the standard or enhanced rate or child disability
payment by virtue of entitlement to the care component at the middle or
highest rate” .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations make provision for Adult Disability Payment which is a type
of disability assistance given by the Scottish Ministers under section 31 of
the Social Security (Scotland) Act 2018.

Part 2 provides an overview of arrangements for payment of disability
assistance for working age people (“Adult Disability Payment”).

Part 3 sets out the eligibility criteria for the daily living component and
the mobility component of Adult Disability Payment.

Part 4 sets out the required period condition for entitlement to the daily
living component and mobility component.

Part 5 sets out the residence and presence conditions for entitlement to the
assistance.

Part 6 sets out the entitlement rules relating to age.

Part 7 sets out the rules for entitlement to the assistance on account of
having a terminal illness.

Part 8 sets out the effects on payment of the assistance when an individual is
resident in a care home, hospital or legal detention.

Part 9 deals with the making of applications, payments, the amount and form of
Adult Disability Payment and ongoing eligibility. It also provides for
circumstances in which assistance may be suspended, when increases or
decreases of entitlement take effect, and giving assistance by way of
deduction.

Part 10 deals with reconsideration of entitlement, where an award of
assistance has already been made and is being revisited. It provides for
determinations without application to be made where a specified period has
elapsed, there is a change in circumstances, to address error resulting in
overpayments, official errors resulting in underpayments, or to effect a
deduction decision.

Part 11 provides for the situation where people in Scotland in receipt of
Adult Disability Payment move to another part of the United Kingdom, or people
in another part of the United Kingdom in receipt of the equivalent assistance,
Personal Independence Payment, move to Scotland.

Part 12 provides for time periods for dealing with requests for re-
determination of entitlement.

Part 13 makes provision for the Scottish Ministers to make payment to
suppliers of adapted vehicles, with whom recipients of the assistance have
entered agreements for hire or hire purchase. These suppliers must be
accredited according to a scheme operated by the Scottish Ministers.

Part 14 and Part 2 of schedule 2 make provision for an initial period for
applications to take place before the full rollout of the assistance.

Part 15 deals with applications for Adult Disability Payment made by
individuals who are in receipt of Child Disability Payment . It also provides
for a determination of entitlement to Adult Disability Payment without an
application where an individual is in receipt of Child Disability Payment and
is terminally ill.

Part 16 and Part 3 of schedule 2 make provision to transfer individuals who
meet the residence and presence conditions and are awarded Personal
Independence Payment to become entitled to Adult Disability Payment.

Part 17 sets out the qualifications and experience necessary to carry out
assessments, where these are required to determine an individual’s entitlement
to receive the assistance.

Part 18 and Part 1 of schedule 2 deal with entitlement to short-term
assistance, to bridge the gap, in the event that entitlement to the assistance
is reduced or removed. This is payable, in certain circumstances, during the
time when the change in entitlement is being challenged but the outcome is not
yet known.

Part 19 and Part 4 of schedule 2 make provision for a consequential amendment
to the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992.

Part 20 makes further provision for the initial period for applications by way
of transitory provisions.

Schedule 1 sets out the activities, descriptors and points to be applied when
determining an individual’s entitlement to the daily living component and
mobility component of the assistance.

