Title: The Haiti (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order extends with modifications the Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022 (S.I. 2022/1281) (“the Haiti Regulations”) as amended from time to time to all British overseas territories except Bermuda and Gibraltar (which implement sanctions under their own legislative arrangements). It also implements in those territories the travel ban in respect of UN designated persons required by paragraph 3 of resolution 2653 (2022) adopted by the Security Council on 21st October 2022 (the “resolution”)(which in the United Kingdom is implemented by way of the Immigration Act 1971 (c. 77) rather than the Haiti Regulations).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1347

## The Haiti (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order 2022

    Overseas Territories       Sanctions

  Made   14th December 2022

  Laid before Parliament   20th December 2022

  Coming into force   28th December 2022

      At the Court at Buckingham Palace, the 14th day of December 2022
Present,   The King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council           Under
Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations the Security Council of the
United Nations has, by a resolution adopted on 21st October 2022, called upon
His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom to apply certain measures to
give effect to decisions of that Council in relation to Haiti :           His
Majesty, in exercise of the powers conferred on Him by section 1 of the United
Nations Act 1946  and section 63(3)(c) and (4) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money
Laundering Act 2018 , is pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council,
to make the following Order:

### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Haiti (Sanctions) (Overseas Territories) Order
2022 and comes into force on 28th December 2022.

1.2

This Order extends to each British overseas territory listed in Schedule 1.

### Extension of the Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022

2

The Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022  as amended from time to time extend to
each British overseas territory listed in Schedule 1 with the modifications
specified in Schedule 2.

### Extension of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018

3

Subject to the modification set out in paragraph (c), the following provisions
of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act 2018 extend to each British
overseas territory listed in Schedule 1 for the purposes of the Haiti
(Sanctions) Regulations 2022 as modified and extended to the territories by
this Order—

3.a

section 44 (protection for acts done for purposes of compliance);

3.b

section 52(3) (Crown application);

3.c

section 53 (saving for prerogative powers), except that, in its application to
a particular British overseas territory, the reference in subsection (1) of
that section to the United Kingdom is to be read as a reference to that
territory.

### Exclusion of UN designated persons from the Territory

4

4.1

A person who is for the time being named for the purposes of paragraph 3 of
resolution 2653 by the Security Council or the Committee must not enter,
transit or remain in the Territory.

4.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a person who—

4.2.a

belongs to the Territory, or

4.2.b

in respect of the Sovereign Base Areas, is permitted to reside in the
Sovereign Base Areas under the law applicable to the Sovereign Base Areas.

4.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to a person if—

4.3.a

the application of that paragraph to that person would be contrary to the
United Kingdom’s obligations under—

4.3.a.i

the European Convention on Human Rights, or

4.3.a.ii

the Refugee Convention, or

4.3.b

the person has been exempted from the application of paragraph (1) under a
process applying by virtue of a resolution adopted by the Security Council.

4.4

The Governor may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, direct that, in
relation to any person falling within paragraph (1) whose name is specified,
or who is of a specified description, that paragraph has effect subject to
specified exceptions.

4.5

A direction under this article—

4.5.a

may contain conditions;

4.5.b

must be of a defined duration (and that duration may be expressed in any way,
including, for example, being expressed in a way such that the direction
ceases to have effect on, or within a specified period after, the occurrence
of a specified event).

4.6

The Governor may, with the consent of the Secretary of State, vary, revoke or
suspend a direction under this article at any time.

4.7

On the issue, variation, revocation or suspension of a direction under this
article, the Governor may take such steps as the Governor considers
appropriate to publicise the issue, variation, revocation or suspension of the
direction.

4.8

The Governor may, to such extent and subject to such restrictions and
conditions as the Governor thinks proper, delegate or authorise the delegation
of any of the Governor’s powers under this article to any person, or class or
description of persons, and any references in this article to the Governor are
to be construed accordingly.

4.9

In the exercise of any power conferred on the Governor by this article, the
Governor is to act in their discretion.

4.10

In the application of this article to a particular British overseas territory,
the expression “ the Territory ” means that territory.

4.11

For the purposes of this article, a person (“ P ”) belongs to the Territory
if—

4.11.a

in respect of Anguilla, P is an Anguillian (within the meaning given to that
term in the law of Anguilla);

4.11.b

in respect of the Cayman Islands, P is a Caymanian (within the meaning given
to that term in the law of the Cayman Islands);

4.11.c

in respect of the Falkland Islands, P has Falkland Islands status (within the
meaning given to that term in the law of the Falkland Islands);

4.11.d

in respect of Montserrat, P is a Montserratian (within the meaning given to
that term in the law of Montserrat);

4.11.e

in respect of Pitcairn, P has the right of abode in Pitcairn under the law of
Pitcairn;

4.11.f

in respect of St Helena, P has St Helenian status (within the meaning given to
that term in the law of St Helena);

4.11.g

in respect of Tristan da Cunha, P has the right of abode in Tristan da Cunha
under the law of Tristan da Cunha;

4.11.h

in respect of the Turks and Caicos Islands, P is a Turks and Caicos Islander
(within the meaning given to that term in the law of the Turks and Caicos
Islands);

4.11.i

in respect of the Virgin Islands, P belongs to the Virgin Islands (within the
meaning given to that term in the law of the Virgin Islands).

4.12

In this article—

      “ the Committee ” means the Committee of the Security Council
established in accordance with paragraph 19 of resolution 2653;           “
the European Convention on Human Rights ” means the Convention for the
Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms done at Rome on 4 November
1950 and the Protocols to the Convention ;           “ the Governor ” means,
in relation to the Territory, the person holding or acting in the office of
Governor of the Territory, or, if there is no such office, the officer for the
time being administering the Territory;           “ Pitcairn ” means Pitcairn,
Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands;           “ the Refugee Convention ” means
the Convention relating to the Status of Refugees done at Geneva on 28 July
1951 and the Protocol to the Convention ;           “ resolution 2653 ” means
resolution 2653 (2022) adopted by the Security Council on 21st October 2022;
“ Security Council ” means the Security Council of the United Nations;
“ the Sovereign Base Areas ” means the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and
Dhekelia in the Island of Cyprus;           “ specified ” means specified in a
direction under this article.

      Richard Tilbrook   Clerk of the Privy Council

  British overseas territories

Article 1(2)

    Anguilla   British Antarctic Territory   British Indian Ocean Territory
Cayman Islands   Falkland Islands   Montserrat   Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie
and Oeno Islands   St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha   South Georgia
and the South Sandwich Islands   The Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and
Dhekelia in the Island of Cyprus   Turks and Caicos Islands   Virgin Islands

Modifications to be made in the extension of the Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations
2022 to each British overseas territory listed in Schedule 1

Article 2

1

In regulation 1 (citation and commencement)—

1.a

in the heading, omit “and commencement”;

1.b

omit paragraph (2) (commencement).

2

In regulation 2 (interpretation)—

2.a

the existing text becomes paragraph (1);

2.b

in that paragraph—

2.b.i

in the appropriate places, insert the following definitions—

“ aircraft ” has the same meaning as it has in section 6(9) of the Act;

;

“ authorised officer ” means, in relation to the Territory— a member of His
Majesty’s forces in the Territory, a police or customs officer of the
Territory, a person authorised by the Governor for the purposes of exercising,
whether generally or in a particular case, any power conferred by— regulation
33 (finance: powers to request information), regulation 34 (finance:
production of documents), regulation 36 (trade: information powers),
regulation 36B (general trade licences: inspection of records),   regulation
37 (disclosure of information), regulation 39A (suspected ships, aircraft or
vehicles), or regulation 39B (search warrants), or any person acting under the
authority of a person falling within any of paragraphs (a) to (c);

“ financial sanctions licence ” means, in relation to the Territory, a licence
issued by the Governor under regulation 29(1);

;

“ the Governor ” is to be read in accordance with regulation 4A;

;

“ His Majesty’s forces ” does not include a force of any country, other than
the United Kingdom, that is a member of the Commonwealth;

;

“ ship ” has the same meaning as it has in section 7(14) of the Act;

;

“ territorial sea of the Territory ” means the territorial sea as defined in
an enactment applicable in the Territory or, in the absence of such an
enactment, the territorial sea adjacent to the Territory;

;

“ Territory aircraft ” means, in relation to the Territory— an aircraft
registered in the Territory, or an aircraft which is not registered under the
law of a country outside the Territory but is wholly owned by persons each of
whom is a Territory person;

;

“ Territory person ” means, in relation to the Territory, a person who is— an
individual ordinarily resident in the Territory who is— a British citizen, a
British overseas territories citizen, a British National (Overseas) or a
British Overseas citizen, a person who under the British Nationality Act 1981
is a British subject, or a British protected person within the meaning of that
Act, or a body incorporated or constituted under the law of any part of the
Territory;

;

“ Territory ship ” means, in relation to the Territory— a ship registered in
the Territory, or a ship which is not registered under the law of a country
outside the Territory but is wholly owned by persons each of whom is a
Territory person;

;

“ vehicle ” means a land transport vehicle.

2.b.ii

omit the definitions of—

2.b.ii.aa

“the Commissioners”,

2.b.ii.bb

“Treasury licence”, and

2.b.ii.cc

“United Kingdom person”;

2.c

after that paragraph insert—

2.c.2

In the application of these Regulations to a particular British overseas
territory, the expression “ the Territory ” means that territory.

3

In regulation 3 (application of prohibitions and requirements outside the
United Kingdom)—

3.a

in the heading, for “United Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” ;

3.b

in paragraphs (1) and (4), for “United Kingdom person” substitute  “Territory
person” ;

3.c

in paragraphs (1), (4) and (7), for “United Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” ;

3.d

in paragraphs (2) and (5), after “in the territorial sea” insert  “of the
Territory” ;

3.e

in paragraphs (3) and (6), for “Treasury licence” substitute  “financial
sanctions licence” .

4

In regulation 4 (purposes), for “the regulations contained in this instrument
that are made under section 1 of the Act” substitute  “these Regulations” .

5

At the end of Part 1 (General), insert—

######## Functions of the Governor

5.4A

5.4A.1

In these Regulations, “ the Governor ” means, in relation to the Territory,
the person holding or acting in the office of Governor of the Territory, or,
if there is no such office, the officer for the time being administering the
Territory.

5.4A.2

The Governor may, to such extent and subject to such restrictions and
conditions as the Governor thinks proper, delegate or authorise the delegation
of any of the Governor’s powers under these Regulations to any person, or
class or description of persons, and any references in these Regulations to
the Governor are to be construed accordingly.

5.4A.3

In the exercise of any power conferred on the Governor by these Regulations,
the Governor is to act in their discretion.

6

After regulation 5 (designation of persons named under UN Security Council
Resolutions) insert—

######## Requirement to publish a list of designated persons

6.5A

6.5A.1

The Governor must—

6.5A.1.a

publish a list of designated persons, and

6.5A.1.b

keep the list up to date.

6.5A.2

The Governor may publish the list under paragraph (1) in any form the Governor
considers appropriate, including by means of a website.

6.5A.3

For the purpose of this regulation, “ designated person ” means—

6.5A.3.a

a person who is a designated person for the purposes of regulations 8 to 12
(asset-freeze etc.) (as they have effect in the United Kingdom) by reason of
regulation 5(1) (designation of persons named under UN Security Council
Resolutions) (as it has effect in the United Kingdom), and

6.5A.3.b

a person who is a designated person for the purposes of regulations 15 to 22
(trade) (as they have effect in the United Kingdom) by reason of regulation
5(2) (as it has effect in the United Kingdom).

7

In regulation 14 (interpretation of expressions used in this Part)—

7.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

7.a.1

For the purposes of this Part—

7.a.1.a

“ export ” means export from the Territory, and

7.a.1.b

goods transported out of the Territory by aircraft or ship as stores within
the meaning of CEMA (see section 1(1) and (4) of that Act) are to be regarded
as exported.

7.a.1A

Paragraph 36 of Schedule 1 to the Act (trade sanctions) applies for the
purpose of interpreting expressions in this Part.

7.b

for paragraph (2) substitute—

7.b.2

In this Part, any reference to the Territory includes a reference to the
territorial sea of the Territory.

8

In regulation 15 (export of small arms, light weapons and ammunition), at the
end insert—

8.3

A person who contravenes the prohibition in paragraph (1) commits an offence,
but it is a defence for a person charged with the offence of contravening
paragraph (1) (“ P ”) to show that P did not know and had no reasonable cause
to suspect that the export was to, or for use in, Haiti.

9

In regulation 16 (supply and delivery of   small arms, light weapons and
ammunition ), in paragraph (4) for “United Kingdom or the Isle of Man”
substitute  “Territory” .

10

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

12

In regulation 25 (finance: exceptions from prohibitions)—

12.a

omit paragraph (6);

12.b

in paragraph (7), for the definition of “relevant institution” substitute—

“ relevant institution ”, in relation to the Territory, means a person
domiciled in the Territory who would satisfy the threshold conditions for
permission under Part 4A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000  if it
had its registered office (or if it does not have one, its head office) in the
United Kingdom.

;

12.c

omit paragraph (8).

13

For regulation 27 (exception for authorised conduct in a relevant country)
substitute—

######## Exceptions for authorised conduct outside the Territory

13.27

13.27.1

Where a person’s conduct outside the Territory would, in the absence of this
paragraph, contravene a prohibition in any of regulations 8 to 12 (asset-
freeze etc.), the prohibition is not contravened if the conduct is authorised
by a licence issued under regulation 29 (Treasury licences) (as it has effect
in the United Kingdom)  or regulation 29A (trade licences) (as it has effect
in the United Kingdom) .

13.27.2

Where a person’s conduct in a relevant country would, in the absence of this
paragraph, contravene a prohibition in any of regulations 8 to 12 (“the
relevant prohibition”), the relevant prohibition is not contravened if the
conduct is authorised by a licence or other authorisation which is issued—

13.27.2.a

under the law of the relevant country, and

13.27.2.b

for the purpose of disapplying a prohibition in that jurisdiction which
corresponds to the relevant prohibition.

13.27.3

In this regulation—

“ relevant country ” means— any of the Channel Islands, the Isle of Man, or
any British overseas territory other than the Territory.

13.27.4

Nothing in this regulation affects the application of a prohibition in a case
where it would be incompatible with a UN obligation for the prohibition not to
apply.

14

For regulation 28 (exception for acts done for purposes of national security
or prevention of serious crime), substitute—

14.28

14.28.1

Where an act would, in the absence of this paragraph, be prohibited by any
prohibition in Part 3 (Finance) or Part 4 (Trade), that prohibition does not
apply to the act if the act is one which—

14.28.1.a

a responsible officer has determined would be in the interests of—

14.28.1.a.i

national security, or

14.28.1.a.ii

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere, or

14.28.1.b

the Governor, with the consent of the Secretary of State, has determined would
be in the interests of the prevention or detection of serious crime in the
Territory.

14.28.2

Where, in the absence of this paragraph, a thing would be required to be done
under or by virtue of a provision of Part 6 (Information and records), that
requirement does not apply if—

14.28.2.a

a responsible officer has determined that not doing the thing in question
would be in the interests of—

14.28.2.a.i

national security, or

14.28.2.a.ii

the prevention or detection of serious crime in the United Kingdom or
elsewhere, or

14.28.2.b

the Governor, with the consent of the Secretary of State, has determined that
not doing the thing in question would be in the interests of the prevention or
detection of serious crime in the Territory.

14.28.3

In this regulation, “ responsible officer ” means a person in the service of
the Crown or holding office under the Crown in the United Kingdom, acting in
the course of that person’s duty.

14.28.4

Nothing in this regulation affects the application of a prohibition or
requirement in a case where it would be incompatible with a UN obligation for
the prohibition or requirement not to apply.

15

For regulation 29 (Treasury licences), substitute—

######## Financial sanctions licences

15.29

15.29.1

The prohibitions in regulations 8 to 12 (asset-freeze etc.) do not apply to
anything done under the authority of a licence issued by the Governor under
this paragraph.

15.29.2

The Governor may issue a financial sanctions licence only with the consent of
the Secretary of State.

15.29.3

A financial sanctions licence—

15.29.3.a

must specify the acts authorised by it;

15.29.3.b

may be general or may authorise acts by a particular person or persons of a
particular description;

15.29.3.c

may—

15.29.3.c.i

contain conditions;

15.29.3.c.ii

be of indefinite duration or a defined duration.

15.29.4

The Governor may issue a financial sanctions licence which authorises acts by
a particular person only where the Governor considers that it is appropriate
to issue the licence for a purpose set out in Schedule 2.

15.29.5

Where the Governor issues a financial sanctions licence, the Governor may,
with the consent of the Secretary of State, vary, revoke or suspend it at any
time.

15.29.6

Where the Governor issues, varies, revokes or suspends a financial sanctions
licence which authorises acts by a particular person, the Governor must give
written notice to that person of the issue, variation, revocation or
suspension of the licence.

15.29.7

Where the Governor issues, varies, revokes or suspends a financial sanctions
licence which is general or which authorises acts by persons of a particular
description, the Governor must take such steps as the Governor considers
appropriate to publicise the issue, variation, revocation or suspension of the
licence.

15A

In regulation 29A (trade licences)—

15A.a

the existing text become paragraph (1);

15A.b

in that paragraph, for “Secretary of State”, substitute  “Governor” ;

15A.c

at the end insert—

15A.c.2

The Governor may issue a licence under paragraph (1) only with the consent of
the Secretary of State.

16

In regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences), for “Treasury licence”, in
both places it occurs, substitute  “financial sanctions licence” .

17

In regulation 31 (finance: reporting obligations)—

17.a

for “Treasury”, in each place it occurs, substitute  “Governor” ;

17.b

for paragraph (5) substitute—

17.b.5

A relevant institution must inform the Governor without delay if that
institution credits a frozen account in accordance with regulation 25(4)
(finance: exceptions from prohibitions).

18

For regulation 32 (“relevant firm”) substitute—

18.32

18.32.1

The following are relevant firms for the purposes of regulation 31 (finance:
reporting obligations)—

18.32.1.a

a relevant institution;

18.32.1.b

an undertaking that by way of business—

18.32.1.b.i

operates a currency exchange office,

18.32.1.b.ii

transmits money (or any representation of monetary value) by any means, or

18.32.1.b.iii

cashes cheques that are made payable to customers;

18.32.1.c

a firm or sole practitioner that provides to other persons, by way of
business—

18.32.1.c.i

accountancy services,

18.32.1.c.ii

advice about tax affairs,

18.32.1.c.iii

auditing services,

18.32.1.c.iv

legal or notarial services, or

18.32.1.c.v

trust or company services;

18.32.1.d

a firm or sole practitioner that carries out, or whose employees carry out,
estate agency work;

18.32.1.e

the holder of a licence to operate a casino in the Territory;

18.32.1.f

a person engaged in the business of making, supplying, selling (including
selling by auction) or exchanging—

18.32.1.f.i

articles made from gold, silver, platinum or palladium, or

18.32.1.f.ii

precious stones or pearls;

18.32.1.g

a cryptoasset exchange provider;

18.32.1.h

a custodian wallet provider.

18.32.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the following definitions apply—

“ cryptoasset exchange provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner that by
way of business provides one or more of the following services, including
where the firm or sole practitioner does so as creator or issuer of any of the
cryptoassets involved— exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a
view to the exchange of, cryptoassets for money or money for cryptoassets,
exchanging, or arranging or making arrangements with a view to the exchange
of, one cryptoasset for another, or operating a machine which utilises
automated processes to exchange cryptoassets for money or money for
cryptoassets; “ custodian wallet provider ” means a firm or sole practitioner
that by way of business provides services to safeguard, or to safeguard and
administer— cryptoassets on behalf of its customers, or private cryptographic
keys on behalf of its customers in order to hold, store and transfer
cryptoassets; “ estate agency work ”, in relation to the Territory, is to be
read in accordance with section 1 of the Estate Agents Act 1979 , but as if
references in that section to disposing of or acquiring an interest in land
included (despite anything in section 2 of that Act) references to disposing
of or acquiring an estate or interest in land outside the Territory where that
estate or interest is capable of being owned or held as a separate interest; “
firm ” means any entity that, whether or not a legal person, is not an
individual, and includes a body corporate and a partnership or other
unincorporated body; “ relevant institution ” has the same meaning as it has
in regulation 25(7); “ trust or company services ” means any of the following
services— forming companies or other legal persons; acting, or arranging for
another person to act— as a director or secretary of a company, as a partner
of a partnership, or in a similar capacity in relation to other legal persons;
providing a registered office, business address, correspondence or
administrative address or other related services for a company, partnership or
any other legal person or arrangement; acting, or arranging for another person
to act, as— a trustee of an express trust or similar legal arrangement, or a
nominee shareholder for a person.

18.32.3

For the purposes of this regulation—

18.32.3.a

“ cryptoasset ” means a cryptographically secured digital representation of
value or contractual rights that uses a form of distributed ledger technology
and can be transferred, stored or traded electronically;

18.32.3.b

“ money ” means—

18.32.3.b.i

money in sterling,

18.32.3.b.ii

money in any other currency, or

18.32.3.b.iii

money in any other medium of exchange,

but does not include a cryptoasset; and

18.32.3.c

in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c) of the definition of “cryptoasset exchange
provider” in paragraph (2), “ cryptoasset ” includes a right to, or interest
in, the cryptoasset.

18.32.4

For the purposes of regulation 31(1), information or another matter comes to a
relevant firm “in the course of carrying on its business” if the information
or other matter comes to the firm—

18.32.4.a

in the case of a relevant firm within paragraph (1)(a), in the course of
carrying on an activity in respect of which permission under Part 4A of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 would be required if it had its
registered office (or if it does not have one, its head office) in the United
Kingdom, and

18.32.4.b

in the case of a relevant firm within any other provision of paragraph (1), in
the course of carrying on an activity mentioned in that provision.

19

In regulation 33 (finance: powers to request information)—

19.a

in paragraph (1), for “The Treasury” substitute  “An authorised officer” ;

19.b

in paragraph (2)—

19.b.i

for “The Treasury”, in the first place it occurs, substitute  “An authorised
officer” ;

19.b.ii

for “the Treasury”, in the second place it occurs, substitute  “the authorised
officer” ;

19.c

in paragraph (4), for “the Treasury believe” substitute  “the authorised
officer believes” ;

19.d

in paragraph (5)—

19.d.i

for “The Treasury” substitute  “An authorised officer” ;

19.d.ii

for “Treasury licence” substitute  “financial sanctions licence” ;

19.e

for paragraph (6) substitute—

19.e.6

An authorised officer may request a person to provide information within
paragraph (7) if the authorised officer believes that the person may be able
to provide the information.

;

19.f

in paragraph (7)—

19.f.i

for “the Treasury” substitute  “the authorised officer” ;

19.f.ii

in sub-paragraph (b)(iii), for “Treasury licence” substitute  “financial
sanctions licence” ;

19.g

in paragraph (8), for “The Treasury” substitute  “The authorised officer” ;

19.h

in paragraph (10), for “the Treasury”, in both places it occurs, substitute
“the authorised officer” .

20

In regulation 34 (finance: production of documents)—

20.a

in paragraph (2), for “the Treasury request that documents be produced, the
Treasury” substitute  “an authorised officer requests that documents be
produced, the authorised officer” ;

20.b

for paragraph (3), substitute—

20.b.3

Where an authorised officer requests a designated person or a person acting
under a financial sanctions licence to produce documents, that person must—

20.b.3.a

take reasonable steps to obtain the documents (if they are not already in the
person’s possession or control);

20.b.3.b

keep the documents under the person’s possession or control (except for the
purpose of providing them to the authorised officer or as the authorised
officer may otherwise permit).

21

In regulation 35 (finance: information offences), in paragraph (1)(d), for
“the Treasury” substitute  “an authorised officer” .

22

For regulation 36 (trade: application of information powers in CEMA)
substitute—

######## Trade: information powers

22.36

22.36.1

An authorised officer may request a person who is concerned (in whatever
capacity) in a relevant activity to provide such information as the authorised
officer may reasonably require about the relevant activity.

22.36.2

The authorised officer may specify the way in which, and the period within
which, information is to be provided.

22.36.3

If no such period is specified, the information which has been requested must
be provided within a reasonable time.

22.36.4

A request under paragraph (1) may include a request to produce specified
documents or documents of a specified description.

22.36.5

Where the authorised officer requests that documents be produced, the
authorised officer may—

22.36.5.a

take copies or extracts from any document so produced,

22.36.5.b

request any person producing a document to give an explanation of it,

22.36.5.c

where that person is a body corporate, partnership or unincorporated body
other than a partnership, request any person who is—

22.36.5.c.i

in the case of a partnership, a present or past partner or employee of the
partnership, or

22.36.5.c.ii

in any other case, a present or past officer or employee of the body
concerned,

to give such an explanation, and

22.36.5.d

remove, at a reasonable time and for a reasonable period, any document so
produced if the authorised officer considers it is necessary to do so.

22.36.6

Where a document has been removed by an authorised officer under paragraph
(5)(d)—

22.36.6.a

the authorised officer must, on request, provide a receipt for the document;

22.36.6.b

if the document is reasonably required for the proper conduct of a business,
the authorised officer must, as soon as practicable and free of charge,
provide a copy of the document to the person who produced it.

22.36.7

Where a document requested to be produced under paragraph (4) is subject to a
lien, the production or removal of the document in accordance with this
regulation does not affect, and is not to be regarded as breaking, the lien.

22.36.8

For the purposes of paragraph (1), a “ relevant activity ” means an activity
which would  , unless done under the authority of a trade licence,
constitute a contravention of any prohibition in Part 4 (Trade).

23

After regulation 36 (trade: information powers) insert—

######## Trade: information offences

23. 

23. .1

A person commits an offence if that person—

23. .1.a

without reasonable excuse, refuses or fails within the time and in the manner
specified (or, if no time has been specified, within a reasonable time) to
comply with any request under regulation 36 (trade: information powers);

23. .1.b

knowingly or recklessly gives any information, or produces any document, which
is false in a material particular in response to such a request;

23. .1.c

with intent to evade any provision of regulation 36, destroys, mutilates,
defaces, conceals or removes any document;

23. .1.d

otherwise intentionally obstructs an authorised officer in the exercise of
their powers under regulation 36.

23. .2

Where a person is convicted of an offence under this regulation, the court may
make an order requiring that person, within such period as may be specified in
the order, to comply with the request.

23A

In regulation 36A(4) (general trade licences: records), for “Secretary of
State” substitute  “Governor” .

23B

In regulation 36B (general trade licences: inspection of records)—

23B.a

in paragraph (1), for “A person authorised by the Secretary of State or the
Commissioners (an “official”)” substitute  “An authorised officer” ;

23B.b

in paragraphs (2) to (5), for “official”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“authorised officer” ;

23B.c

in paragraph (5)(a), for “official’s functions” substitute  “authorised
officer’s functions” .

24

In regulation 37 (disclosure of information)—

24.a

in paragraph (1), for “Secretary of State, the Treasury or the Commissioners”
substitute  “Governor or an authorised officer” ;

24.b

in paragraph (2)—

24.b.i

after sub-paragraph (c) insert—

24.b.i.ca

taking any action with a view to instituting, or otherwise for the purposes
of, any proceedings in the Territory for an offence under any provisions of
these Regulations;

;

24.b.ii

in sub-paragraph (d)—

24.b.ii.aa

in paragraph (i), after “Regulations” insert  “(as they have effect in the
United Kingdom)” ;

24.b.ii.bb

in paragraph (ii), after “regulation 15(1) (export of   small arms, light
weapons and ammunition )” insert  “(as it has effect in the United Kingdom)” ;

24.b.iii

in sub-paragraph (e), after “any British overseas territory” insert  “other
than the Territory” ;

24.b.iv

in sub-paragraph (g), for “United Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” ;

24.c

in paragraph (3)—

24.c.i

in sub-paragraph (f), for “United Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” ;

24.c.ii

in sub-paragraph (j), for “Secretary of State, the Treasury or the
Commissioners (as the case may be) consider” substitute  “Governor considers”
.

25

For regulation 38 (finance: disclosure to the Treasury) substitute—

######## Finance: disclosure to the Governor

25.38

25.38.1

A relevant public authority may disclose information to the Governor or an
authorised officer if the disclosure is made for the purpose of enabling or
assisting the Governor or authorised officer to discharge any of its functions
in connection with any sanctions regulations  contained in these Regulations.

25.38.2

In this regulation—

“ relevant public authority ” means— any person holding or acting in any
office under or in the service of the Crown in right of the Territory; any
regulatory body in the Territory; or any other person exercising functions of
a public nature.

26

In regulation 39 (Part 6: supplementary)—

26.za

in paragraph (1) for “finance: disclosure to the Treasury” substitute
“finance: disclosure to the Governor” ;

26.a

for paragraph (2) substitute—

26.a.2

But nothing in that regulation authorises a disclosure that would contravene
the data protection legislation if that legislation were applicable to the
Territory.

;

26.b

in paragraph (5), for “Treasury licence” substitute  “financial sanctions
licence” ;

26.c

after paragraph (5) insert—

26.c.5A

An authorised officer must, if requested to do so, produce evidence of their
authority before exercising any power conferred by this Part.

;

26.d

in paragraph (6), in the definition of “privileged information”, omit “(in
Scotland, to confidentiality of communications)”.

27

In Part 7 (Enforcement), at the beginning insert—

######## Suspected ships, aircraft or vehicles

27.39A

27.39A.1

Where an authorised officer has reasonable cause to suspect that a ship,
aircraft or vehicle has been, or is being, or is about to be, used in the
commission of an offence under Part 4 (Trade), the authorised officer may—

27.39A.1.a

in relation to an aircraft or vehicle, require the relevant person to keep the
aircraft or vehicle and any goods it is carrying in the Territory, until the
authorised officer notifies the relevant person that the aircraft or vehicle
(as the case may be) may depart, or

27.39A.1.b

in relation to a ship, require the relevant person—

27.39A.1.b.i

not to cause or permit the ship to proceed with the voyage on which it is
engaged or about to engage, until the authorised officer notifies the relevant
person that the ship may proceed;

27.39A.1.b.ii

not to land any part of the ship’s cargo at any port specified by the
authorised officer, except with the authorised officer’s prior consent;

27.39A.1.b.iii

if the ship is in port in the Territory, to cause the ship to remain there
until the authorised officer notifies the relevant person that the ship may
depart;

27.39A.1.b.iv

if the ship is in any other place, to cause it to proceed to a port specified
by the authorised officer and keep it there, until the authorised officer
notifies the relevant person that the ship may depart.

27.39A.2

Where the authorised officer considers it necessary in order to secure
compliance with a requirement made under paragraph (1), the authorised officer
may detain the ship, aircraft or vehicle and any goods it is carrying.

27.39A.3

Where an authorised officer detains a ship, aircraft or vehicle and any goods
it is carrying in accordance with paragraph (2), the authorised officer must
deliver to the master of the ship, the aircraft operator or the owner of the
vehicle (as the case may be) a detention direction.

27.39A.4

A detention direction under paragraph (3) must—

27.39A.4.a

be in writing,

27.39A.4.b

state the grounds on which the ship, aircraft or vehicle is detained, and

27.39A.4.c

state that—

27.39A.4.c.i

the power to detain is exercised under this regulation, and

27.39A.4.c.ii

any requirements subject to which the detention is carried out must be
complied with.

27.39A.5

Paragraph (6) applies, in relation to a ship or aircraft, if—

27.39A.5.a

the ship or aircraft (as the case may be) is not a Territory ship or Territory
aircraft, and

27.39A.5.b

there is in the Territory a consular officer for the country to which the ship
or aircraft belongs.

27.39A.6

A copy of the detention direction must be sent as soon as practicable to the
nearest consular officer for the country to which the ship or aircraft
belongs.

27.39A.7

An authorised officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise
of any power conferred by this regulation.

27.39A.8

An authorised officer must, if requested to do so, produce evidence of their
authority before exercising any power conferred by this regulation.

27.39A.9

Nothing in this regulation affects any other provision of law conferring
powers, imposing restrictions or enabling restrictions to be imposed in
respect of ships, aircraft or vehicles.

27.39A.10

In this regulation—

“ consular officer ”, in relation to a foreign country, means the officer
recognised by His Majesty as a consular officer of that foreign country in the
Territory; “ the relevant person ” means any of the following— in relation to
a ship, the owner, master or charterer of the ship; in relation to an
aircraft, the owner, charterer, operator or commander of the aircraft; in
relation to a vehicle, the owner, driver or operator of the vehicle.

######## Search warrants

27.39B

27.39B.1

A magistrate or justice of the peace may issue a search warrant if satisfied
by information on oath that—

27.39B.1.a

there is reasonable cause to suspect that a relevant offence under these
Regulations has been, or is being, or is about to be, committed, and

27.39B.1.b

evidence in relation to the offence is to be found on a ship, aircraft,
vehicle or premises specified in the information.

27.39B.2

A search warrant issued under this regulation is a warrant empowering an
authorised officer to enter and search the ship, aircraft, vehicle or premises
specified in the information, at any time within one month from the date of
the warrant.

27.39B.3

The powers conferred on an authorised officer by a search warrant under this
regulation include powers to—

27.39B.3.a

in the case of a power to enter a ship, aircraft or vehicle, stop that ship,
aircraft or vehicle;

27.39B.3.b

enter any land, where such entry appears to the authorised officer to be
necessary in order to enter the ship, aircraft, vehicle or premises specified
in the information;

27.39B.3.c

take such other persons and such equipment on to the ship, aircraft, vehicle
or premises as appear to the authorised officer to be necessary;

27.39B.3.d

inspect and seize any thing found in the course of a search if the authorised
officer has reasonable cause to suspect that—

27.39B.3.d.i

it is evidence in relation to a relevant offence under these Regulations, or

27.39B.3.d.ii

it is necessary to seize it in order to prevent it being concealed, lost,
damaged, altered or destroyed;

27.39B.3.e

take copies of any document.

27.39B.4

An authorised officer who enters a ship, aircraft, vehicle or premises under a
search warrant issued under this regulation may—

27.39B.4.a

search any person found on the ship, aircraft, vehicle or premises whom the
officer has reasonable cause to suspect to be in possession of any thing which
may be required as evidence for the purposes of proceedings in respect of a
relevant offence under these Regulations, and

27.39B.4.b

seize any such thing found in such a search.

27.39B.5

Any thing seized under paragraphs (3)(d) or (4)(b)—

27.39B.5.a

may be retained for so long as is necessary in all the circumstances, and

27.39B.5.b

 where that thing is small arms, light weapons or ammunition and is not
authorised by a trade licence, may be forfeited, disposed of or transferred as
appropriate.

27.39B.6

A search of a person under paragraph (4)(a) must be carried out by a person of
the same sex.

27.39B.7

An authorised officer may use reasonable force, if necessary, in the exercise
of any power conferred by this regulation.

27.39B.8

An authorised officer must, if requested to do so, produce evidence of their
authority before exercising any power conferred by this regulation.

27.39B.9

Nothing in this regulation affects any other provision of law conferring
powers, imposing restrictions or enabling restrictions to be imposed in
respect of ships, aircraft or vehicles.

27.39B.10

For the purposes of this regulation—

“ information on oath ” includes any other form of application for a search
warrant applicable in the Territory; “ justice of the peace ” includes other
competent judicial authorities within the Territory responsible for issuing
search warrants; “ relevant offence ” means an offence which is punishable
with a term of imprisonment of more than 6 months.

28

For regulation 40 (penalties for offences) substitute—

28.40

28.40.1

Paragraphs (3) to (6) apply to—

28.40.1.a

Anguilla;

28.40.1.b

British Antarctic Territory;

28.40.1.c

British Indian Ocean Territory;

28.40.1.d

Cayman Islands;

28.40.1.e

Montserrat;

28.40.1.f

Pitcairn, Henderson, Ducie and Oeno Islands;

28.40.1.g

Turks and Caicos Islands;

28.40.1.h

Virgin Islands.

28.40.2

Paragraphs (7) to (10) apply to—

28.40.2.a

Falkland Islands;

28.40.2.b

St Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha;

28.40.2.c

South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands;

28.40.2.d

the Sovereign Base Areas of Akrotiri and Dhekelia in the Island of Cyprus.

28.40.3

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences) is liable—

28.40.3.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or a
fine not exceeding £5,000 or its equivalent in the currency of the Territory,
or both;

28.40.3.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years,
or a fine, or both.

28.40.4

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 4 (Trade) is
liable—

28.40.4.a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or a
fine not exceeding £5,000 or its equivalent in the currency of the Territory,
or both;

28.40.4.b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10
years, or a fine, or both.

28.40. 

A person who commits an offence under regulation 30A, 36A(6) or 36B(5)
(offences in connection with trade licences) is liable—

28.40. .a

on summary conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or a
fine not exceeding £5,000 or its equivalent in the currency of the Territory,
or both;

28.40. .b

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years,
or a fine, or both.

28.40.5

A person who commits an offence under regulation 31(6) or 35 (information
offences in connection with Part 3) is liable, on summary conviction, to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 months, or a fine not exceeding £5,000
or its equivalent in the currency of the Territory, or both.

28.40.6

A person who commits an offence under regulation   36ZA   (trade: information
offences) is liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding £1,000 or
its equivalent in the currency of the Territory.

28.40.7

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 3 (Finance) or
regulation 30 (finance: licensing offences) is liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 7 years, or a fine, or both.

28.40.8

A person who commits an offence under any provision of Part 4 (Trade) is
liable on conviction, to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 years, or a
fine, or both.

28.40. 

A person who commits an offence under regulation 30A, 36A(6) or 36B(5)
(offences in connection with trade licences) is liable on conviction to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years, or a fine, or both.

28.40.9

A person who commits an offence under regulation 31(6) or 35 (information
offences in connection with Part 3) is liable on conviction to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 6 months, or a fine not exceeding £5,000 or its
equivalent in the currency of the Territory, or both.

28.40.10

A person who commits an offence under regulation   36ZA   (trade: information
offences) is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding £1,000 or its
equivalent in the currency of the Territory.

28.40.11

Where a fine in this regulation is expressed to be a sum in sterling or its
equivalent in the currency of the Territory, the Governor may issue guidance
specifying how to calculate the amount in the currency of the Territory which
is to be considered equivalent to that sum in sterling.

29

In regulation 41 (liability of officers of bodies corporate etc.), omit
paragraph (4).

30

In regulation 42 (jurisdiction to try offences)—

30.a

in paragraph (1), for “United Kingdom”, in each place it occurs, substitute
“Territory” ;

30.b

omit paragraphs (2) and (3).

31

After regulation 42 (jurisdiction to try offences), insert—

######## Consent to prosecutions

31.42A

31.42A.1

Proceedings for an offence under these Regulations must not be instituted in
the Territory except with the consent of the principal public officer of the
Territory responsible for criminal prosecutions.

31.42A.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) prevents—

31.42A.2.a

the arrest, or the issue or execution of a warrant for the arrest, of any
person in respect of an offence under these Regulations, or

31.42A.2.b

the remand in custody or on bail of any person charged with such an offence.

32

For regulation 43 (procedure for offences by unincorporated bodies)
substitute—

32.43

Any provision in an enactment which applies in the Territory in relation to
criminal proceedings brought against a body corporate, applies also for the
purposes of proceedings in the Territory for an offence under these
Regulations brought against an unincorporated body.

33

In regulation 44 (time limit for proceedings for summary offences), omit
paragraph (4).

34

Omit regulation 45 (trade enforcement: application of CEMA) (including the
heading).

35

Omit regulation 46 (trade offences in CEMA: modification of penalty)
(including the heading).

36

Omit regulation 47 (application of Chapter 1 of Part 2 of the Serious
Organised Crime and Police Act 2005 ) (including the heading).

37

Omit regulation 48 (monetary penalties) (including the heading).

38

In regulation 49 (exercise of maritime enforcement powers)—

38.a

for paragraph (1) substitute—

38.a.1

A maritime enforcement officer may, for a purpose mentioned in paragraph (2)
or (3), exercise any of the maritime enforcement powers in relation to a
relevant ship in international waters.

;

38.b

omit paragraph (5);

38.c

at the end insert—

38.c.6

In this Part, “ a relevant ship ” means, in relation to the Territory, a
Territory ship.

39

In regulation 50 (maritime enforcement officers)—

39.a

In paragraph (1)—

39.a.i

omit sub-paragraphs (b), (d), (e), (f) and (h);

39.a.ii

for sub-paragraph (c) substitute—

39.a.ii.c

a police officer of the Territory;

;

39.a.iii

for sub-paragraph (g) substitute—

39.a.iii.g

a customs officer of the Territory;

;

39.b

Omit paragraph (2).

40

In regulation 51(2)(c) (power to stop, board, search etc.), for “United
Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” .

41

Omit regulation 53 (restrictions on exercise of maritime enforcement powers)
(including the heading).

42

In regulation 55 (notices), for “United Kingdom”, in each place it occurs,
substitute  “Territory” .

43

Omit regulation 56 (trade: overlapping offences) (including the heading).

44

In Schedule 2 (Treasury licences: purposes)—

44.a

in the heading, for “Treasury licences” substitute  “Financial sanctions
licences” ;

44.b

in paragraph 6(b)(ii) (pre-existing judicial decisions etc.), for “United
Kingdom” substitute  “Territory” .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order extends with modifications the Haiti (Sanctions) Regulations 2022
( S.I. 2022/1281 ) (“ the Haiti Regulations ”) as amended from time to time to
all British overseas territories except Bermuda and Gibraltar (which implement
sanctions under their own legislative arrangements). It also implements in
those territories the travel ban in respect of UN designated persons required
by paragraph 3 of resolution 2653 (2022) adopted by the Security Council on
21st October 2022 (the “resolution”)(which in the United Kingdom is
implemented by way of the Immigration Act  1971 (c. 77)  rather than the Haiti
Regulations).

  Section 63(3)(c) of the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering Act  2018 (c.
13)  (“ the Sanctions Act ”) provides that His Majesty may by Order in Council
provide for any provision of Part 1 of that Act, or any regulations under Part
1 of that Act, to extend with or without modifications to any of the British
overseas territories. Section 63(4) provides that this includes the power to
extend any regulations as amended from time to time.

  Section 1 of the United Nations Act  1946 (c. 45)  provides that His Majesty
may by Order in Council make such provision as appears to Him necessary or
expedient for enabling the effective application of certain measures where,
under Article 41 of the Charter of the United Nations, the Security Council
has called upon His Majesty’s Government in the United Kingdom to apply such
measures to give effect to any decision of that Council. In accordance with
subsection (2) of that section, such Orders in Council may extend to the
British overseas territories.

  The Haiti Regulations were made under Part 1 of the Sanctions Act to
establish a sanctions regime to give effect to the United Kingdom’s
international obligations resulting from the resolution. The resolution
established the UN sanctions regime in view of the situation in Haiti.

  The Haiti Regulations, as modified and extended to the territories by this
Order (“ the modified Regulations ”), provide that persons designated by the
UN as responsible for or complicit in, or having engaged in, directly or
indirectly, actions that threaten the peace, security or stability of Haiti
are designated persons for the purposes of the modified Regulations.
Designated persons may be excluded from a territory and are subject to
financial sanctions, including having their funds or economic resources
frozen. The modified Regulations also impose trade restrictions on military
goods and military technology and associated services in relation to
designated persons.

  The modified Regulations provide for certain exceptions to this sanctions
regime (for example to allow for frozen accounts to be credited with interest
or other earnings and to allow acts done for the purpose of national security
or the prevention of serious crime). The Governor of a British overseas
territory to which the modified Regulations extend may, with the consent of
the Secretary of State, issue a licence in respect of activities that would
otherwise be prohibited under the modified Regulations. Schedule 2 sets out
the purposes pursuant to which the Governor may issue a financial sanctions
licence. The modified Regulations also require the Governor of the territory
to publish an up-to-date list of designated persons.

  The modified Regulations prescribe powers for the provision and sharing of
information to enable the effective implementation and enforcement of the
sanctions regime. The modified Regulations also prescribe enforcement powers
in relation to suspected ships, aircraft or vehicles, or for the issue of a
search warrant. The modified Regulations make it a criminal offence to
contravene, or circumvent, any of the prohibitions in the modified Regulations
and prescribe the penalties that apply to such offences.

  This Order also extends to the territories for the purposes of the modified
Regulations specific provisions of Part 1 of the Sanctions Act, namely
provisions relating to protection for acts done for purposes of compliance,
Crown application and saving for prerogative powers.

  This Order also provides that, subject to certain exceptions, UN designated
persons must not enter, transit or remain in the territories.

  An Impact Assessment has not been prepared for this instrument because there
is no, or no significant, impact on business in the United Kingdom.

