Title: The Statutory Sick Pay (Coronavirus) (Funding of Employers’ Liabilities) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations provide for certain small and medium size employers to reclaim some or all of their Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) costs from Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/5

## The Statutory Sick Pay (Coronavirus) (Funding of Employers’ Liabilities) Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   at 11.45 a.m. on 5th January 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.45 p.m. on 5th January 2022

  Coming into force   14th January 2022

      The Commissioners for Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, with the
concurrence of the Secretary of State, make the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 159B and 175(3), (4) and (5A) of
the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992 .

### Introduction

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Statutory Sick Pay (Coronavirus)
(Funding of Employers’ Liabilities) Regulations 2022 and come into force on
14th January 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

    “ eligible employer ” has the meaning given in regulation 4;         “
employer PAYE reference number ” means the number identifying a PAYE scheme
which was given to the employer by HMRC when the employer registered the PAYE
scheme with HMRC;         “ HMRC ” means Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs;
“ in difficulty ” has the meaning given in regulation 4(2);         “ maximum
temporary aid amount ” means the maximum amount of aid permitted to be
received by an undertaking in accordance with section 3.1 of the Communication
from the Commission of 19 March 2020 on the Temporary Framework for State aid
measures to support the economy in the current COVID-19 outbreak ;         “
original claim ” has the meaning given in regulation 9(1)(a);         “ PAYE
scheme ” means a pay as you earn scheme registered on HMRC’s real time
information system;         “ reimbursement amount ” has the meaning given in
regulation 3(1).

### Eligibility for funding

#### Funding of eligible employers’ liabilities by HMRC

3

3.1

An eligible employer who has made a payment of statutory sick pay  to an
employee where—

3.1.a

that employee’s period of incapacity for work  is related to coronavirus; and

3.1.b

any day of incapacity for work in that period falls on or after 21st December
2021,

is, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), entitled to recover the amount paid to
the employee in respect of those days of incapacity for work which fall on or
after 21st December 2021  and on or before 17th March 2022  (the
“reimbursement amount”) from HMRC.

3.2

An eligible employer is not entitled to recover a reimbursement amount from
HMRC—

3.2.a

if, were the eligible employer to receive the reimbursement amount claimed,
the amount of State aid received by the eligible employer would exceed the
maximum temporary aid amount for that eligible employer; or

3.2.b

in respect of an employee for a period for which the eligible employer is
entitled to a government grant in respect of that employee due to the employee
being furloughed from the employment for reasons related to COVID-19.

3.3

The amount which an eligible employer may recover from HMRC under these
Regulations is limited to—

3.3.a

in relation to a single employee, £192.70; and

3.3.b

in total, £192.70 multiplied by the number of employees enrolled in PAYE
schemes of the eligible employer on 30th November 2021, determined in
accordance with regulation 4.

3.4

In this regulation—

3.4.a

an employee includes an employee who—

3.4.a.i

was employed by the eligible employer during a period of incapacity for work
related to coronavirus,

3.4.a.ii

has received a payment of statutory sick pay from the eligible employer in
respect of that period of incapacity for work, and

3.4.a.iii

no longer works for the eligible employer; and

3.4.b

the reference to the reimbursement amount in paragraph (2)(a) is to that
amount converted into euros using the European Commission’s—

3.4.b.i

official monthly accounting rate for the euro; and

3.4.b.ii

conversion rate for December 2021 .

#### Meaning of eligible employer

4

4.1

An eligible employer is an employer who—

4.1.a

on 30th November 2021, had fewer than 250 employees enrolled in all PAYE
schemes operated by the employer; and

4.1.b

on 31st December 2019, was not already in difficulty.

4.2

An employer is “in difficulty” if—

4.2.a

in the case of an employer who is not a micro or small enterprise, it is
reasonable to assume that the employer would be regarded as an undertaking in
difficulty under Article 2(18) of the General Block Exemption Regulation; or

4.2.b

in the case of an employer who is a micro or small enterprise, it is
reasonable to assume that the employer would be regarded as an undertaking in
difficulty either under Article 2(18)(c) of the General Block Exemption
Regulation, as if the words after “collective insolvency proceedings”, in the
first place it appears, to the end were omitted, or under Article 2(18)(d) of
the General Block Exemption Regulation.

4.3

Where, on 30th November 2021, the employer was one of—

4.3.a

two or more companies which were not charities and which were connected with
one another; or

4.3.b

two or more charities which were connected with one another,

the limit in paragraph (1)(a) applies to the total number of employees
enrolled in all PAYE schemes operated by the connected companies or charities,
as applicable.

4.4

For the purposes of paragraph (3)—

4.4.a

Part 1 of Schedule 1 to the National Insurance Contributions Act 2014  sets
out the rules for determining if two or more companies are connected with one
another;

4.4.b

Part 2 of Schedule 1 to that Act sets out the rules for determining if two or
more charities are connected with each other.

4.5

In this regulation—

    “ charity ” has the same meaning as in section 18(1) of the Small
Charitable Donations Act 2012 , subject to paragraph 8(5) of Schedule 1 to the
National Insurance Contributions Act 2014;         “ company ” has the meaning
given by section 1121(1) of the Corporation Tax Act 2010  and includes a
limited liability partnership;         “ General Block Exemption Regulation ”
means  Commission Regulation (EU) No. 651/2014  of 17 June 2014 declaring
certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application
of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty ;         “ micro or small enterprise ”
means an employer who is a micro-enterprise or a small enterprise within the
meaning of Article 2 of Annex 1 of the General Block Exemption Regulation.

#### When an employee’s incapacity for work is related to coronavirus

5

5.1

An employee’s incapacity for work is related to coronavirus if the employee
is—

5.1.a

incapable by reason of infection or contamination with coronavirus, or

5.1.b

deemed, in accordance with regulation 2(1)(c) or (d) of the Statutory Sick Pay
(General) Regulations 1982 , to be incapable by reason of coronavirus,

of doing work which the employee can reasonably be expected to do under the
employee’s contract of service, and references in these Regulations to an
employee’s period of incapacity for work related to coronavirus shall be
construed in accordance with this regulation.

5.2

The reference to regulation 2(1)(c) or (d) of the Statutory Sick Pay (General)
Regulations 1982 in paragraph (1)(b) is a reference to the regulation which
was in force on the first day of incapacity for work in question.

### Claims

#### Making a claim

6

6.1

An employer who makes a claim for the recovery of a reimbursement amount must
do so in accordance with this regulation.

6.2

A claim may include one or more reimbursement amounts paid by the employer—

6.2.a

to employees enrolled in the same PAYE scheme, and

6.2.b

during the period of time specified by the employer in accordance with
paragraph (3)(d).

6.3

The claim must contain the following—

6.3.a

the employer PAYE reference number for the PAYE scheme to which the claim
relates;

6.3.b

the number of employees the claim relates to;

6.3.c

the amount claimed;

6.3.d

the beginning and end dates of the period of time to which the amount
specified in accordance with sub-paragraph (c) relates;

6.3.e

details of the bank account into which the amount specified in accordance with
sub-paragraph (c) is to be paid; and

6.3.f

if required by regulation 9(2), the amount by which the original claim was
overstated.

6.4

The claim must contain a declaration by the employer that—

6.4.a

the employer was not already in difficulty on 31st December 2019;

6.4.b

receipt of the amount claimed will not result in the amount of State aid
received by the employer exceeding the maximum temporary aid amount for that
employer; and

6.4.c

the matters stated in the claim are true and accurate.

6.5

The claim must be submitted to HMRC electronically using the Government
Gateway unless paragraph (6) or regulation 9(2) applies.

6.6

If the employer considers that the employer is digitally excluded—

6.6.a

the employer may make a request to HMRC to submit a claim in an alternative
manner, and

6.6.b

if HMRC are satisfied that the employer is digitally excluded, the employer
must submit the claim in a manner agreed with HMRC.

6.7

An employer is digitally excluded where—

6.7.a

it is not reasonably practicable for the employer to use the Government
Gateway to submit a claim for any reason including age, disability or
remoteness of location, or

6.7.b

the employer is a person who is a practising member of a religious society or
order whose beliefs are incompatible with using the Government Gateway.

6.8

In this regulation “ Government Gateway ” means the secure online facility for
accessing government services.

#### Time limit for making a claim

7

A claim may not be made after the end of 24th March 2022.

### Payments, corrections and overpayments

#### Payments

8

Where HMRC accept a claim, HMRC must pay the amount specified in the claim by
the employer in accordance with regulation 6(3)(c), less any amount repayable
under regulation 9(3), to the account specified by the employer in accordance
with regulation 6(3)(e) as soon as reasonably practicable.

#### Correcting a claim when the amount has been mistakenly overstated

9

9.1

Where an employer—

9.1.a

becomes aware that the employer mistakenly overstated the amount in a claim
(the  “original claim” ); and

9.1.b

has received payment from HMRC in respect of the original claim,

the employer must correct the error in accordance with this regulation.

9.2

The next claim that the employer makes under regulation 6 (the “next claim”)
must be made in the manner provided for in paragraph (8) and in it, the
employer must specify the amount by which the original claim was overstated.

9.3

The amount by which the original claim was overstated must be repaid to HMRC
by the employer by way of set-off against the amount stated in the next claim,
up to a maximum of the amount stated in the next claim.

9.4

Where the amount by which the original claim was overstated exceeds the
maximum amount required to be set off in accordance with paragraph (3), the
employer must repay the excess to HMRC within the period of 30 days beginning
on the day on which the next claim is made.

9.5

Where an employer does not make a next claim within the period of 60 days
beginning with the day on which the original claim was made, the employer must
notify HMRC of the overstatement in accordance with paragraphs (6) to (8).

9.6

The employer must provide the following information to HMRC—

9.6.a

the employer PAYE reference number for the PAYE scheme to which the original
claim related;

9.6.b

the amount by which the original claim was overstated; and

9.6.c

the beginning and end dates of the period of time to which the original claim
related.

9.7

The employer must declare to HMRC that the information provided under
paragraph (6) is true and accurate.

9.8

An employer who makes a next claim, a declaration under paragraph (7) or who
provides information under paragraph (6) must do so by telephone or in
writing, as determined by HMRC in its discretion and notified to the employer.

9.9

The employer must repay to HMRC the amount referred to in paragraph 6(b)
within the period of 30 days beginning on the day on which the employer
provides the information under paragraph (6) and the declaration under
paragraph (7).

#### Correcting a claim when the amount has been mistakenly understated

10

Where an employer becomes aware that the employer mistakenly understated the
amount in a claim (the  “understated claim” ), the employer may submit a claim
in accordance with regulation 6 for the amount understated in respect of the
same period, PAYE scheme and employees specified in the understated claim.

#### Recovery of overpayments

11

11.1

Where any sum has been overpaid to an employer under these Regulations (an
“overpayment”), HMRC may recover it in accordance with this regulation.

11.2

An officer of Revenue and Customs must decide the amount of the overpayment
and must give notice in writing of the decision to the employer.

11.3

The employer must repay the overpayment to HMRC within the period of 30 days
beginning with the day on which the employer receives the notice of decision
referred to in paragraph (2).

11.4

Part 6 of the Taxes Management Act 1970  (collection and recovery) applies to
the recovery of overpayments as if—

11.4.a

the amount of the overpayment were income tax charged on the employer named in
the notice of decision referred to in paragraph (2);

11.4.b

that notice of decision were an assessment; and

11.4.c

that notice of decision were the matter complained of for the purposes of
section 65(3) of that Act .

11.5

In the application of section 101(4) of the Finance Act 2009  (late payment
interest on sums due to HMRC) in relation to a repayment to HMRC of an
overpayment under this regulation, the overpayment becomes due and payable on
the date on which HMRC give the notice of decision referred to in paragraph
(2).

### Records and information requests

#### Preservation of records

12

12.1

An employer who makes a claim for a reimbursement amount must keep a record of
the following in respect of the employee, or former employee, in relation to
whom the amount was claimed—

12.1.a

the start date and end date of the period of incapacity for work related to
coronavirus to which the reimbursement amount relates;

12.1.b

national insurance number;

12.1.c

the reason for incapacity for work provided by the employee or former
employee; and

12.1.d

the days which were qualifying days  in that period of incapacity for work.

12.2

An employer who corrects the amount of a claim in accordance with regulation 9
or 10 must keep a record of the amount of the correction and the reason for
the correction.

12.3

The employer must keep the records specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) until
the end of the period of 3 years beginning with the date on which payment
under regulation 8 is received.

12.4

An employer who makes a claim for a reimbursement amount must keep the
confirmation of State aid letter until the end of the period of 4 years
beginning on IP completion day.

12.5

In paragraph (4), “ the confirmation of State aid letter ” means the letter
containing confirmation of receipt of State aid under these Regulations sent
by HMRC to the employer once a claim is made.

#### Provision of information and records

13

13.1

HMRC may by notice require an employer who has made a claim for a
reimbursement amount—

13.1.a

to provide to HMRC in the manner specified in the notice, or

13.1.b

to make available for inspection at a place within the United Kingdom by an
officer of Revenue and Customs,

within the period specified in the notice, all documents, records and other
information in the employer’s possession or under the employer’s control as
HMRC may reasonably require, to ascertain whether the employer was entitled to
receive a reimbursement amount under these Regulations, including whether it
was unlawful State aid.

13.2

Where records are maintained by computer, an employer required to make them
available for inspection must provide the officer of Revenue and Customs
making the inspection with all the facilities necessary for obtaining
information from them.

      Myrtle Lloyd   Justin Holliday   Two of the Commissioners for Her
Majesty’s Revenue and Customs           The Secretary of State concurs.
Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions.     Chloe
Smith   Minister for Disabled People, Health and Work   Department for Work
and Pensions

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations provide for certain small and medium size employers to
reclaim some or all of their Statutory Sick Pay (SSP) costs from Her Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs (HMRC).

Regulation 1 provides for citation and commencement and regulation 2 provides
for interpretation of terms used in the Regulations.

Regulation 3 provides that an employer may make a claim in respect of an
employee’s period of incapacity for work related to coronavirus where any day
of incapacity for work in that period falls on or after 21st December 2021.
Section 159B(7) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act  1992
(c. 4)  allows these Regulations to have effect in relation to days of
incapacity for work that fall on or after 13th March 2020. The regulation
makes further provision about which SSP costs an employer is entitled to
reclaim and limits the amounts which can be claimed per employee and in total.
It also provides for when an employer is not entitled to claim by reason of
exceeding limits on receipt of State aid under the Temporary Framework for
State aid measures to support the economy during the current COVID-19 outbreak
set by the European Commission or having certain entitlement to a government
grant where an employee is furloughed from the employment for reasons related
to COVID-19.

Regulation 4 defines an eligible employer for the purposes of regulation 3 by
reference to the number of employees enrolled on all pay as you earn schemes
operated by the employer on 30th November 2021 and by reference to whether it
is reasonable to assume that the employer would be regarded as “in difficulty”
for State aid purposes. The number of employees of connected companies or
connected charities must be aggregated for the purpose of determining
eligibility.

Regulation 5 gives the meaning of period of incapacity for work related to
coronavirus for the purposes of regulation 3.

Regulation 6 sets out how to make a claim for reimbursement of SSP and the
information and declarations that must be included in a claim.

Regulation 7 provides for a time limit on making claims.

Regulation 8 provides for how HMRC will make payment pursuant to accepted
claims.

Regulation 9 requires an employer who mistakenly overstated the amount of a
claim for which the employer has received payment from HMRC to correct the
error and repay the amount by which the claim was overstated.

Regulation 10 allows an employer who has mistakenly understated the amount of
a claim to submit another claim in respect of the same period, PAYE scheme and
employees.

Regulation 11 provides for recovery by HMRC of overpayments made under these
Regulations.

Regulation 12 places record keeping obligations on eligible employers making
claims under these Regulations.

Regulation 13 permits HMRC to request information from, and inspect the
records of, employers making claims under these Regulations.

An Impact Assessment has not been produced for this instrument because it is
covered by the Summary of Impacts published with the Coronavirus Bill on 19
March 2020 at  https://publications.parliament.uk/pa/bills/cbill/58-
01/0122/Coronavirus%20Bill%20Impact%20Assessment%20final%20pdf.pdf  (see pages
72 to 73). Copies are also available from the Department of Health and Social
Care, 39 Victoria Street, Westminster, London SW1H 0EU.

