Title: The Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) (Amendment) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2022-10-31
Description: These Rules amend the Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996 (S.R. 1996 No. 324) to make provision for a court to make a special measures direction for a party or witness who is stated to be a victim of domestic abuse and to prescribe the procedure.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/255

## The Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) (Amendment) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Magistrates’ Courts

  Made   13th October 2022

  Coming into operation in accordance with rule 1

      The Magistrates’ Courts Rules Committee makes the following Rules in
exercise of the powers conferred by Article 13 of the Magistrates’ Courts
(Northern Ireland) Order 1981 .

### Citation and commencement

1

These Rules may be cited as the Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings)
(Amendment) Rules (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on the
day on which section 37 of the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021  comes into operation.

### Amendment to the Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996

2

The Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) Rules (Northern Ireland) 1996
are amended as follows.

3

After rule 15A insert—

####### Special measures direction relating to a person who is, or is at risk of, being subjected to abusive behaviour

3.15B

3.15B.1

The domestic proceedings to which this rule applies are proceedings under one
or more of the following:

3.15B.1.a

the Order;

3.15B.1.b

Article 31B of the Matrimonial and Family Proceedings (Northern Ireland) Order
1989;

3.15B.1.c

the Children (Northern Ireland) Order 1995;

3.15B.1.d

the Order of 1998; and

3.15B.1.e

Schedule 16 to the Act of 2004.

3.15B.2

3.15B.2.a

In this rule—

      “ the Act of 2021 ” means the Domestic Abuse and Civil Proceedings Act
(Northern Ireland) 2021;           “ abusive behaviour ” has the same meaning
as in section 2 (as read with section 3(2)) and section 4 of the Act of 2021;
“ live link ” means a live television link or other arrangement whereby a
party or witness is able to see and hear all other persons participating in
the proceedings who are in a different location, and to be seen and heard by
the judge, legal representatives acting in the proceedings and other persons
appointed to assist a party or witness;           “ parties ” includes the
guardian ad litem in proceedings under the Children (Northern Ireland) Order
1995;           “ personally connected ” has the same meaning as in section 5
of the Act of 2021;           “ relative ” has the same meaning as in Article
2(2) of the Order of 1998.

3.15B.2.b

A reference in this rule to “quality of evidence” is to its quality in terms
of completeness, coherence and accuracy; and for this purpose “ coherence ”
refers to a party’s or a witness’s ability in giving evidence to give answers
which address the questions put to the party or the witness and can be
understood both individually and collectively.

3.15B.3

The court may make a direction that a person (P), who is a party or witness in
the proceedings, shall have the assistance of a measure specified in paragraph
(5), where it is stated that—

3.15B.3.a

P is, or is at risk of, being subjected to abusive behaviour by a person who
is—

3.15B.3.a.i

a party to the proceedings,

3.15B.3.a.ii

a relative of a party to the proceedings (other than P), or

3.15B.3.a.iii

a witness in the proceedings, and

3.15B.3.b

P and that person are personally connected.

3.15B.4

When deciding whether to make a direction under paragraph (3) the court shall
have regard in particular to—

3.15B.4.a

any views expressed by P;

3.15B.4.b

any views expressed by a party other than P;

3.15B.4.c

the nature and extent of the information before the court;

3.15B.4.d

the issues arising in the proceedings;

3.15B.4.e

whether any of the measures specified in paragraph (5) would, in its opinion,
be likely to improve the quality of evidence given by P, or their
participation in the proceedings; and

3.15B.4.f

the availability of the measure to the court.

3.15B.5

The measures which may be directed by the court under this rule are those
which—

3.15B.5.a

prevent P from seeing another party or witness; or

3.15B.5.b

allow P to participate in the proceedings and give evidence by live link.

3.15B.6

The court shall consider whether to make a direction under paragraph (3)
either—

3.15B.6.a

on the written request in Form SM of a party, at the commencement of the
proceedings or as soon as practicable after, filed and served on the other
parties; or

3.15B.6.b

of its own motion having given the parties notice of its intention to do so
and an opportunity to attend and be heard, or to make written representations.

3.15B.7

In an urgent case, a request under paragraph 6(a) may, with the leave of the
court, be made orally.

3.15B.8

Subject to paragraph (7), on receipt of a written request under paragraph 6(a)
the clerk of petty sessions shall fix a date for the hearing of the request
and give not less than 2 days’ notice to the parties of the date so fixed.

3.15B.9

Where every other party has given their consent in writing to the direction
which is sought, the court may grant the request without a hearing and the
clerk of petty sessions shall inform the parties of the decision.

3.15B.10

The court may vary or revoke a direction made under paragraph (3).

3.15B.11

A direction made under paragraph (3) which is still in force immediately prior
to the transfer of proceedings to another court shall continue to apply
following the transfer subject to any changes of terminology which are
required to apply the direction to the court to which the proceedings are
transferred, unless varied or discharged.

3.15B.12

The court shall take a note of the making, variation or revocation of a
direction under this rule and serve, as soon as practicable, a copy of the
note on any party who was not present at the making, variation or revocation.

4

In Schedule 1 (Forms) after Form D13 insert the new Form SM set out in the
Schedule.

      Nigel Broderick   Eoghan McKenna   Debbie Maclam   Tracey McCloskey
Dated 13th October 2022       In exercise of the power conferred by Article 13
of the Magistrates’ Courts (Northern Ireland) Order 1981 and after
consultation with the Lady Chief Justice, I allow these Rules.       Sealed
with the Official Seal of the Department of Justice on 20th October 2022
Naomi R Long   Minister for Justice

  Form SM – Rule 15B(6)(a)

Rule 4

##### APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL MEASURES DIRECTION (VICTIM OF ABUSIVE BEHAVIOUR) UNDER RULE 15B





## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Rules)

  These Rules amend the Magistrates’ Courts (Domestic Proceedings) Rules
(Northern Ireland) 1996 ( S.R. 1996 No. 324 ) to make provision for a court to
make a special measures direction for a party or witness who is stated to be a
victim of domestic abuse and to prescribe the procedure.

