Title: The Plastic Packaging Tax (General) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: The Regulations make provision for plastic packaging tax, introduced by Part 2 of the Finance Act 2021 (c. 26) (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/117

## The Plastic Packaging Tax (General) Regulations 2022

    Plastic Packaging Tax

  Made   8th February 2022

  Laid before the House of Commons   9th February 2022

  Coming into force   1st April 2022

      The Commissioners for Her Majesty’s Revenue and Customs, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 47(5), 48(7), 49(10), 51(1)(b) and (2)(c),
53, 56(5), 58, 60, 61, 63(1) to (3), 66, 74, 84(1) and (2) of, and paragraphs
2(4)(a), 5(2) and (3), 10(4)(a) and 15 of Schedule 9, paragraphs 7(3) and 10
of Schedule 10, and paragraph 12 of Schedule 13 to, the Finance Act 2021 ,
make the following Regulations:

### Preliminary

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Plastic Packaging Tax (General)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 1st April 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

    “ the Act ” means the Finance Act 2021;         “ accounting periods ”
refers to the periods determined by regulation 31;         “chargeable event”,
unless otherwise specified, refers to the production or importation of a
chargeable plastic packaging component  within the meaning of section 43(1) of
the Act (charge to plastic packaging tax);         “ common properties ”
refers to the shared properties of components of identical design;         “
finished plastic packaging components ” means finished  plastic packaging
components taken into account for the purposes of section 55(2) of the Act
(liability to register: producers and importers) ;         “ identical design
” means that two or more components are designed to be identical in respect
of—       their input materials;       their weight;       their
characteristics or functions; and       any—     determination under
regulation 5(3);       calculation under regulation 7(3); and
measurement of weight under Chapter 2 of Part 4,             relating to each
component (whether or not that determination, calculation or measurement is
carried out);         “ indicative component ” means—       a sample component
of a product line;       where the procedure in regulation 5(5) is applied, a
sample component of a production run, the properties of which are derived from
the calculation under regulation 5(6); or       where the procedure in
regulation 7(5) is applied, a sample component of a production run, the
properties of which are derived by the modified calculation under regulation
7(6);             “ in writing ” includes electronic communications;         “
product line ” means a group of components with common properties;         “
production run ” means a single phase of production of a product line,
including a phase of production that has commenced but has not been completed
at the time of the chargeable event;         “ return ” means a return made
under regulation 33.

#### Prescribed by the Commissioners

3

In these Regulations, “ prescribed ” means prescribed in a public notice
published by the Commissioners and not withdrawn by a further notice and “
prescribe ” is to be construed accordingly.

### Determination of plastic and recycled content, meaning of “substantial modification” etc.

#### Plastic packaging component: substances other than plastic

4

For the purposes of section 48(3) of the Act (meaning of “ plastic packaging
component ”) , the single substances other than plastic  are—

4.a

aluminium;

4.b

steel;

4.c

any metal not within paragraphs (a) or (b);

4.d

glass;

4.e

paper and cardboard;

4.f

wood; or

4.g

any non-metal not within paragraphs (d) to (f).

#### Plastic packaging component: methodology of determination of plastic content

5

5.1

To satisfy the Commissioners that a relevant packaging component  is not a
plastic packaging component, a producer or importer of relevant packaging
components must—

5.1.a

undertake a determination under paragraph (3); or

5.1.b

obtain that determination from another person,

and keep a record of it in writing.

5.2

The result of that determination must be that the relevant packaging component
does not fall within the definition of “plastic packaging component” in
section 48(3) of the Act.

5.3

A determination must state—

5.3.a

the weight of plastic contained in a relevant packaging component;

5.3.b

the weight of each of the single substances listed in regulation 4 contained
in the relevant packaging component; and

5.3.c

whether the relevant   packaging component contains more plastic, according to
the weight given under sub-paragraph (a), than any other single substance in
respect of each of which the weight is given under sub-paragraph (b).

5.4

Where relevant packaging components are within a product line, a determination
under paragraph (3) may be made by reference to an indicative component rather
than to each relevant packaging component within that product line.

5.5

Where relevant packaging components are part of a production run, a
determination under paragraph (3) may be made by reference to an indicative
component of that production run by applying the calculation under paragraph
(6), rather than to each relevant packaging component of that production run.

5.6

Where the procedure in paragraph (5) is applied, the calculation of the weight
of plastic and the weight of each of the single substances listed in
regulation 4 contained in an indicative component must be calculated in
accordance with the formula—

        W = T N               Where     W is the weight of plastic or the
weight of each of the single substances listed in regulation 4 contained in
the indicative component.   T is the weight of plastic or the weight of each
of the single substances listed in regulation 4 used in the production run.
N is the number of relevant packaging components in the production run.

5.7

Where relevant packaging components are within a product line, a determination
under paragraph (3) may be made by reference to the design specifications of a
relevant packaging component rather than to each relevant packaging component
within that product line provided that the following conditions are met—

5.7.a

the design specifications include—

5.7.a.i

the weight of the relevant packaging component;

5.7.a.ii

the weight of plastic to be used in the relevant packaging component;

5.7.a.iii

the weights of each of the single substances listed in regulation 4 to be used
in the relevant packaging component; and

5.7.b

an indicative component has been weighed and its weight is equal to that in
the design specifications.

5.8

The determination under paragraph (3) must not include the weights of—

5.8.a

waste material produced and discarded during the production process;

5.8.b

waste or surplus material attached to the relevant packaging component at the
chargeable event;

5.8.c

goods contained within a relevant packaging component, when that component is
imported.

5.9

When goods contained within an imported relevant packaging component are other
relevant packaging components, an importer must undertake or obtain and keep a
record of a determination in accordance with paragraph (3) in respect of those
other components.

5.10

If at any time—

5.10.a

where the procedure in paragraphs (4) or (7) has been applied, the indicative
component relied on no longer accurately represents the common properties of a
product line; or

5.10.b

a determination under paragraph (3) (or any further determination required by
this paragraph) is inaccurate or no longer correct,

the producer or importer must undertake or obtain a further determination and
keep a record of it in writing.

5.11

In this regulation, “ relevant packaging component ” means a packaging
component that contains plastic.

#### Provision of evidence that plastic is recycled plastic

6

6.1

To satisfy the Commissioners that plastic is recycled plastic , a person must
have sufficient evidence of that fact and keep a record of that evidence.

6.2

The Commissioners must prescribe what constitutes sufficient evidence for the
purposes of paragraph (1).

#### Chargeable plastic packaging component: method of calculation of recycled plastic content

7

7.1

To satisfy the Commissioners that a plastic packaging component does not fall
within section 47(1)(a) of the Act (chargeable plastic packaging components),
a person liable to be registered must—

7.1.a

undertake the calculation in paragraph (3) in respect of the plastic packaging
component; or

7.1.b

obtain that calculation from another person,

and keep a record of it in writing.

7.2

The result of that calculation must be that the plastic packaging component
does not fall within section 47(1)(a) of the Act.

7.3

The proportion of recycled plastic contained in the plastic packaging
component, when measured by weight, must be calculated in accordance with the
formula—

        X % = A B × 100               Where     X is the proportion of
recycled plastic contained in the plastic packaging component, expressed as a
percentage.   A is the weight of recycled plastic used to produce the plastic
packaging component.   B is the weight of plastic used to produce the plastic
packaging component.

7.4

Where plastic packaging components are within a product line, a person liable
to be registered may apply the calculation under paragraph (3) to an
indicative component rather than to each plastic packaging component within
that product line.

7.5

Where plastic packaging components are part of a production run, a person
liable to be registered may apply the calculation under paragraph (3) (as
modified by paragraph (6)) to an indicative component of that production run,
rather than for each plastic packaging component of that production run.

7.6

Where the procedure in paragraph (5) is applied, the calculation in paragraph
(3) must be modified by reading—

7.6.a

A as the weight of recycled plastic used in the production run; and

7.6.b

B as the weight of plastic used in the production run.

7.7

Where plastic packaging components are within a product line, a person liable
to be registered may apply the calculation under paragraph (3) by reference to
the design specifications of the plastic packaging component rather than to
each plastic packaging component within that product line provided that the
following conditions are met—

7.7.a

the design specifications include—

7.7.a.i

the weight of the plastic packaging component;

7.7.a.ii

the weight of plastic to be used in the plastic packaging component; and

7.7.a.iii

the weight of the recycled plastic to be used in the plastic packaging
component; and

7.7.b

an indicative component has been weighed and its weight is equal to that in
the design specifications.

7.8

If at any time—

7.8.a

where the procedure under paragraphs (4) or (7) has been applied, the
indicative component relied on no longer accurately represents the common
properties of a production line; or

7.8.b

the calculation made under paragraph (3) (or any further calculation required
by this paragraph) is inaccurate or no longer correct,

a person liable to register must undertake or obtain a further calculation and
keep a record of it in writing.

7.9

In this regulation, “ liable to be registered ” means liable to be registered
under section 55(1) of the Act.

#### Meaning of substantial modification

8

8.1

For the purposes of section 47(3) of the Act, “ substantial modification ”
means a chargeable modification to a component made by a relevant
manufacturing process.

8.2

In this regulation—

8.2.a

a “chargeable modification” is a change to the—

8.2.a.i

shape;

8.2.a.ii

structure;

8.2.a.iii

thickness; or

8.2.a.iv

weight,

of a component;

8.2.b

a “ relevant manufacturing process ” means any process of production of
components other than—

8.2.b.i

blowing or forming from a pre-form;

8.2.b.ii

cutting;

8.2.b.iii

labelling;

8.2.b.iv

sealing.

8.3

Where any process within paragraph (2)(b)(i) to (iv) is carried out at the
same time as a relevant manufacturing process, it is to be treated as a
relevant manufacturing process.

8.4

In paragraph (2)(b)(i), “ pre-form ” means a component formed into a
provisional shape or form prior to its subsequent expansion by blowing or
forming.

### Deferrals and credits

#### Plastic packaging components intended for export

##### Cancellation of liability

9

For the purposes of section 51(1)(b) of the Act, a person must have sufficient
evidence of—

9.a

the fact that the component has been exported;

9.b

the weight of the component that has been exported; and

9.c

the day on which it was exported, and

keep a record in writing of that evidence.

##### Direct export condition: further conditions

10

The further conditions specified for the purposes of section 51(2)(c) of the
Act are that the person—

10.a

before or at the time of production or importation, holds sufficient evidence
that they intend to export a chargeable plastic packaging component; and

10.b

keeps a record in writing of that evidence.

##### Meaning of sufficient evidence

11

The Commissioners must prescribe what constitutes “ sufficient evidence ” for
the purposes of this Chapter.

#### Tax credits

##### Interpretation

12

In this Chapter—

    “ case 1 ” refers to the case in section 53(1)(a) of the Act (tax credits)
;         “ case 2 ” refers to the case in section 53(1)(b) of the Act ;
“ liable person ” means—       a person who is registered under section 56 of
the Act (notification of liability and registration) at the time that case 1
or case 2 applies to a chargeable plastic packaging component; or       any
other person, where the Commissioners are satisfied that that person is
entitled to a tax credit under section 53 of the Act.

##### Tax credits: meaning of sufficient evidence

13

The Commissioners must prescribe what constitutes “ sufficient evidence ” for
the purposes of this Chapter.

##### Entitlement to tax credit

14

Where case 1 or 2 applies in respect of a chargeable plastic packaging
component and the direct export condition  is not met in respect of that
component, a liable person is entitled to a tax credit if that person—

14.a

is liable to pay plastic packaging tax in respect of the chargeable plastic
packaging component;

14.b

has sufficient evidence that case 1 or 2 applies and they have kept a record
of that evidence;

14.c

makes a claim for a tax credit in accordance with regulation 15; and

14.d

where case 2 applies, a person is liable to pay plastic packaging tax in
respect of the different packaging component.

##### Claim for a tax credit: conditions, form etc.

15

15.1

A claim for tax credit must—

15.1.a

be made by a liable person;

15.1.b

be included in the return for the accounting period in which a liable person
first has sufficient evidence that case 1 or 2 applies to a chargeable plastic
packaging component; and

15.1.c

comply with such other requirements as to its form and manner as the
Commissioners may prescribe.

15.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the liable person may, in the return,
deduct the credit amount from the amount of plastic packaging tax otherwise
payable by them in respect of an accounting period.

15.3

No claim may be made for a tax credit in respect of a chargeable plastic
packaging component after the end of the period of 2 years beginning with the
day on which the charge to tax arose in respect of that component.

##### Records for tax credit claims

16

16.1

A liable person who makes a claim for a tax credit must keep evidence of the
following matters in respect of the claim—

16.1.a

the total of the credit amounts for cases 1 and 2, shown separately;

16.1.b

their grounds for claiming that case 1 or case 2 applies to the chargeable
plastic packaging component;

16.1.c

the accounting period in which they first have sufficient evidence that case 1
or 2 applies to the chargeable plastic packaging component;

16.1.d

where plastic packaging tax has been paid on the chargeable plastic packaging
component in respect of which the tax credit claim is made, evidence of the
amount, date and manner of that payment;

16.1.e

where case 2 applies, evidence as to whether a charge to plastic packaging tax
has arisen in relation to the different plastic packaging component; and

16.1.f

such other information as the Commissioners may prescribe.

16.2

A liable person must keep such records for a period of 6 years beginning with
the day that the tax credit claim is made.

##### Payment of tax credit claims

17

17.1

Where the tax credit claimed by a liable person exceeds the amount of plastic
packaging tax due from them for an accounting period, the Commissioners must
repay the excess to the liable person.

17.2

The Commissioners are not liable to make any repayment under paragraph (1)—

17.2.a

if any return the liable person is required to make has not been made;

17.2.b

to the extent that a tax credit has previously been claimed in respect of the
chargeable plastic packaging component to which the repayment relates.

##### Repayment of tax credits

18

18.1

Where a person has benefitted from a tax credit (whether or not payment has
been made under regulation 17) to which they were not entitled, or to which
they have ceased to be entitled, that person must repay the amount to the
Commissioners.

18.2

The amount due to be repaid by a person under paragraph (1) is to be
recoverable on the basis that is an amount of plastic packaging tax due from
them, payable on the day on which the person first benefitted from the tax
credit.

##### Cessation of business etc.

19

19.1

Where a liable person is no longer liable to pay plastic packaging tax as a
result of becoming a member of a group  under section 71 of the Act (groups of
companies)—

19.1.a

that person remains entitled under this Chapter to tax credits in respect of
plastic packaging tax charged on chargeable plastic packaging components in
relation to accounting periods that began before the day on which they cease
to be liable; and

19.1.b

the representative member of the group is not so entitled.

19.2

The Commissioners may prescribe the form and manner in which, and the
conditions on which, tax credits may be claimed by a person who—

19.2.a

has ceased to carry on business; or

19.2.b

is no longer liable to pay plastic packaging tax, including under paragraph
(1)(a),

where they have ceased to be registered.

### Registration and administration

#### Registration

##### Notification of liability to be registered: form, manner and content

20

20.1

The Commissioners must prescribe the form and manner in which a person is to
give a notification under section 56 of the Act (notification of liability and
registration).

20.2

A person giving a notification under section 56 of the Act must include in
that notification—

20.2.a

that person’s name, correspondence address, telephone number and (where
available) email address;

20.2.b

where given by an officer or employee responsible for giving the notification
on behalf of the person, that person’s name, position in the business ,
telephone number and (where available) email address;

20.2.c

the address of that person’s principal place of business (if different from
sub-paragraph (a) above);

20.2.d

whether the business is carried on by an individual, a limited company,
partnership or other unincorporated body, or in any other capacity;

20.2.e

the unique taxpayer reference allocated to that person by the Commissioners
(if any);

20.2.f

whether the person is the representative member  of a group;

20.2.g

the date of the notification;

20.2.h

the day on which the person became liable to be registered under section 55 of
the Act;

20.2.i

the estimated tonnage of finished plastic packaging components which the
business or, in the case of a group, the group, expects to produce or import
in the period of 12 months as at and beginning with the day on which the
liability to notify arose; and

20.2.j

a declaration that the matters stated in the notification are true and
correct.

20.3

Where the registration is made on behalf of a group, the information in
paragraphs (2)(a) to (e) above must be given in relation to each member of the
group.

20.4

This notification is to be given electronically, subject to such exceptions as
the Commissioners may prescribe.

20.5

Once notification is given under section 56 of the Act, the Commissioners may
request such further information as the Commissioners may require in
connection with the registration of that person.

##### Preservation of records

21

21.1

P must—

21.1.a

keep; or

21.1.b

obtain from another person and keep,

a record in writing of any evidence used by P to establish whether, on any
day, section 55(2) of the Act applies in relation to P on that day.

21.2

In this regulation, “ P ” has the meaning given by section 55(1) of the Act .

##### Correction of the register

22

22.1

Paragraph (2) applies to a person—

22.1.a

who is registered under section 56(3) of the Act; or

22.1.b

who has made a notification under section 56 of the Act, where their liability
to be registered has not been finally determined.

22.2

Such a person must notify the Commissioners (“a further notification”) of—

22.2.a

any information they have given to the Commissioners which is inaccurate,
incomplete or misleading; or

22.2.b

any change in circumstances,

which may require a correction to be made to an entry made, or to be made, on
the register.

22.3

A further notification under paragraph (2) must be given to the Commissioners
before the end of the period of 30 days beginning, as the case requires, with—

22.3.a

the day after the person discovers that any information was inaccurate,
incomplete or misleading; or

22.3.b

the day after the change in circumstances occurred.

22.4

A further notification under paragraph (2) must be made electronically,
subject to such exceptions as the Commissioners may prescribe.

22.5

The Commissioners may correct the register as they see fit.

#### Measurement of Weight

##### Application and interpretation

23

23.1

This Chapter applies for the purposes of the measurement of the weight of any
thing for the purposes of any provision in or under the Act.

23.2

Regulations 24 to 28 apply to the measurement of weight undertaken or obtained
by any person other than the Commissioners.

23.3

This Chapter does not apply to the estimation of the weight of finished
plastic packaging components for the purposes of section 55(2)(a) of the Act
(liability to register: producers and importers), or to regulation 20(2)(i).

23.4

In this Chapter—

    “ agreed method ” refers to an agreed method provided by regulation 25;
“ specified rules ” refers to the rules provided for by regulation 26.

23.5

Where, in this Chapter, the weight of any thing is measured for the purposes
of the procedure in regulations 5(5) or 7(5), reference to a product line may
be construed as if it were to a production run.

##### Measurement of weight: timing

24

For the purposes of this Chapter (apart from in regulation 27), the
measurement of weight must be carried out—

24.a

in the case of section 55(2)(b) of the Act , on or before the first day of the
calendar month;

24.b

where required by regulation 9(b), on or before the day of export of the
chargeable plastic packaging component;

24.c

under Chapter 3 of this Part, on or before the last day of the accounting
period to which the return or account relates;

24.d

in any other case, on or before the time of the chargeable event.

##### Agreed method of measurement of weight

25

25.1

The Commissioners may agree rules for measuring weight with any person in
writing (an “agreed method”).

25.2

The rules that may be agreed under paragraph (1) may (among other things) make
provision—

25.2.a

for the method by which weight is to be measured;

25.2.b

for alternative times at which the weight of any thing may be measured in
substitution for those specified by regulation 24 (but a rule providing for an
alternative time must be agreed before any measurement of weight is made);

25.2.c

for the evidence that must be kept of the measurement of weight;

25.2.d

to disregard goods contained within a packaging component that is imported;

25.2.e

relating to a product line or a production run to which the agreed method may
be applied.

25.3

Rules agreed under paragraph (1) may only be applied—

25.3.a

by the person with whom the Commissioners have agreed those rules; and

25.3.b

where the Commissioners have not given a notification under paragraph (4),

but they may be applied in relation to measurements of weight obtained by the
person with whom the rules are agreed from another person.

25.4

Where the Commissioners believe that rules agreed under paragraph (1)—

25.4.a

do not, or no longer, give an accurate indication of the weight of any thing;

25.4.b

have not been complied with by the person with whom they have been agreed; or

25.4.c

should no longer be applied for any other reason,

they may decide that the rules no longer apply, in whole or in part, and
notify the person with whom the rules were agreed of that fact.

##### Specified rules for the of measurement of weight

26

The Commissioners must prescribe specified rules for measuring weight where—

26.a

there is no agreement to use an agreed method;

26.b

for any reason, an agreed method does not apply;

26.c

an agreed method is not used by any person when that method would apply to the
measurement of any thing; or

26.d

a decision has been made by the Commissioners under regulation 25(4).

##### Requirement to re-weigh

27

A person who measures the weight of any thing must re-weigh that thing or
obtain a further measurement of the weight of that thing when—

27.a

there is a change to the input materials used to produce that thing;

27.b

there is any change of common properties of a product line (including where an
indicative component no longer accurately represents those common properties);
or

27.c

when they first become aware of any other relevant change of circumstance that
may affect the accuracy of the measurement of weight, and

the provisions of this Chapter apply to the re-weighing of that thing.

##### Records of measurement

28

Where the weight of any thing is measured for purposes in or under the Act, a
record in writing must be kept of—

28.a

the result of the weighing process, expressed in the unit of measurement in
which the process was carried out;

28.b

the methodology used to carry out the measurement; and

28.c

if the result of the process is expressed in a unit of measurement other than
metric units, the calculations showing the conversion of that result into
metric units.

##### Determination of weight by the Commissioners

29

29.1

Paragraph (2) applies where it appears to the Commissioners that a person has—

29.1.a

made an incorrect measurement of weight;

29.1.b

obtained a measurement of weight from another person that is incorrect;

29.1.c

failed to give the correct weight of any thing to the Commissioners;

29.1.d

failed to weigh (or re-weigh) any thing when required to do so;

29.1.e

failed to keep any records under this Chapter; or

29.1.f

failed to comply, where applicable, with an agreed method or (as the case may
be) with specified rules.

29.2

The Commissioners may—

29.2.a

determine the weight of any thing for purposes in or under the Act to the best
of their judgement;

29.2.b

substitute that determination for any measurement or calculation of weight
made by any person; and

29.2.c

notify the determination to that person.

29.3

In making a determination under paragraph (2)(a), the Commissioners may—

29.3.a

make estimates or assumptions;

29.3.b

make comparisons between the thing to be weighed and products or materials
that are similar in nature, and may rely on any evidence they may have as to
the weight of such similar products or materials;

29.3.c

rely on samples taken under paragraph 1 of Schedule 12 to the Act (plastic
packaging tax: information and evidence);

29.3.d

rely on any information or documents (including obtained in the course of an
inspection) under any other power that applies for the purposes of plastic
packaging tax.

#### Accounting periods, payment, returns etc.

##### Interpretation

30

In this Chapter, “ P ” refers to a person who is liable to be registered at
any time in an accounting period to which any provision in this Chapter
relates, whether or not P is so registered.

##### Accounting periods

31

The accounting periods for plastic packaging tax are the three-month periods
ending with 31st March, 30th June, 30th September and 31st December.

##### Payment

32

32.1

P must make payments of plastic packaging tax in respect of each accounting
period.

32.2

The amount of plastic packaging tax payable is the amount stated in the return
in respect of the period.

32.3

P must pay the amount of plastic packaging tax payable in respect of an
accounting period no later than the day by which they must make a return for
that period.

32.4

The Commissioners may, in such circumstances as they may prescribe, extend the
period in paragraph (3) by notice in writing to P for such additional period
as they see fit.

32.5

Payment must be made by the method prescribed by the Commissioners.

##### Requirement to make returns

33

33.1

For each accounting period, P must make a return to the Commissioners no later
than the last working day of the month immediately following the end of the
accounting period to which it relates.

33.2

The Commissioners may extend the period in paragraph (1) by notice in writing
to P for such additional period as they see fit.

##### Form, manner and content of returns etc.

34

34.1

A return must be dated and made in the form and manner prescribed by the
Commissioners.

34.2

The return must include, in respect of the accounting period for which the
return is made—

34.2.a

the total weight of —

34.2.a.i

chargeable plastic packaging components produced or imported; and

34.2.a.ii

chargeable plastic packaging components in respect of which the direct export
condition ceases to be met by or under section 51(1)(a) of the Act;

34.2.b

the total weight of—

34.2.b.i

plastic packaging components produced or imported that are not chargeable to
plastic packaging tax ; and

34.2.b.ii

chargeable plastic packaging components within sub-paragraph (d);

34.2.c

the total weight of plastic packaging components produced or imported in
respect of which it is shown that the components do not fall within section
47(1)(a) of the Act ;

34.2.d

the total weight of chargeable plastic packaging components produced or
imported in respect of which the direct export condition is met by and under
section 51(2) of the Act;

34.2.e

the total weight of plastic packaging components produced or imported that are
exempt under section 52(4) of the Act;

34.2.f

for tax credits claimed by and under section 53 of the Act—

34.2.f.i

the total value of tax credits claimed in respect of plastic packaging tax
which arose during the same accounting period; and

34.2.f.ii

the total value of tax credits claimed in respect of plastic packaging tax
which arose in a previous accounting period;

34.2.g

such further information as the Commissioners may prescribe in connection with
the return; and

34.2.h

a declaration by P that the matters contained in it are true and accurate.

34.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b)(i), the weight given must include plastic
packaging components exempt from the charge to plastic packaging tax under
section 52(4) of the Act.

34.4

P must keep records in writing in support of the matters to be included in a
return in such manner as the Commissioners may prescribe.

##### Correction of returns

35

P must correct any error made in a return for an accounting period—

35.a

in such manner as the Commissioners may prescribe; and

35.b

within a period of 4 years, beginning with the last day on which the return
must be made.

##### Requirement to keep accounts

36

36.1

For each accounting period, P must keep—

36.1.a

accounts for the purposes of plastic packaging tax; and

36.1.b

records in support of the details that must be included in those accounts
under paragraph (2).

36.2

The accounts must include, in respect of the accounting period for which the
accounts must be kept, details of—

36.2.a

where liability to pay plastic packaging tax is deferred under section
51(1)(a) of the Act, the weight of the chargeable plastic packaging components
intended for export;

36.2.b

where liability to pay plastic packaging tax is cancelled under section
51(1)(b) of the Act, the weight of the chargeable plastic packaging components
exported;

36.2.c

the calculation of any tax credit claimed under section 53 of the Act;

36.2.d

whether that credit relates to a case under section 53(1)(a) or section
53(1)(b) of the Act;

36.2.e

any adjustments or corrections made in respect of any previous accounting
period, including the identification of that period; and

36.2.f

the rate of plastic packaging tax applied to any chargeable plastic packaging
components.

36.3

The accounts must state the total amount of plastic packaging tax payable in
respect of the accounting period—

36.3.a

disregarding any amount of plastic packaging tax deferred under section
51(1)(a) of the Act; and

36.3.b

after the deduction of any tax credit claimed in accordance with regulation
15(2).

36.4

P must preserve accounts for the period of 6 years beginning with—

36.4.a

the last day of the accounting period to which the accounts relate; or

36.4.b

the day P pays the total amount of plastic packaging tax payable in respect of
an accounting period,

whichever is the later.

### Keeping and preservation of records

#### Further requirements to keep records

37

A producer of a plastic packaging component, or a person on whose behalf such
a component is imported, must—

37.a

keep, or

37.b

obtain from another person and keep,

a record in writing of any evidence (including any measurement of weight)
which they rely upon relating to waste or surplus material remaining attached
to that component at the time of the event giving rise to a charge to plastic
packaging tax  .

#### Preservation of records

38

38.1

This regulation applies to records kept—

38.1.a

under section 52(6) of the Act;

38.1.b

under regulation 4(4)(c) of the Plastic Packaging Tax (Descriptions of
Products Regulations 2021 ; or

38.1.c

under any relevant provision.

38.2

Where the record relates to an accounting period that record must be preserved
for a period of 6 years beginning with the last day of that accounting period.

38.3

In any other case, the record must be preserved for a period of 6 years
beginning with the day on which the record is created.

38.4

In this regulation, a “ relevant provision ” means any requirement in these
Regulations to keep records, except under—

38.4.i

Chapter 2 of Part 3 (tax credits);

38.4.ii

regulation 36 (requirement to keep accounts); or

38.4.iii

Part 6 (repayments).

### Repayments

#### Interpretation

39

In this Part—

    “ C ” means a claimant;         “ claim ” means a claim made under
paragraph 7 of Schedule 10 to the Act (plastic packaging tax: recovery and
overpayments) and “ claimed ” is to be construed accordingly;         “
relevant amount ” means that part (which may be the whole) of the amount of
the claim which C has reimbursed or intends to reimburse to other persons.

#### Form, manner and content of claims for repayment

40

40.1

A claim must be made—

40.1.a

in the form and manner prescribed by the Commissioners; and

40.1.b

by reference to such documentary evidence as is in the possession of C, state
the amount of the claim and the method by which that amount was calculated.

40.2

The Commissioners may require C to provide such additional information in
support of a claim, as they may prescribe.

#### Reimbursement arrangements: general

41

For the purposes of paragraph 8(2) of Schedule 10 to the Act  reimbursement
arrangements  made by C are to be disregarded except where they—

41.a

include the provisions described in regulation 42; and

41.b

are supported by the undertakings described in regulation 45.

#### Reimbursement arrangements: provisions to be included

42

The provisions referred to in regulation 41(a) are that—

42.a

reimbursement for which the reimbursement arrangements provide will be made
before the end of a period of 90 days beginning with the day on which the
repayment to which it relates was made;

42.b

no deduction will be made from the relevant amount by way of a fee or charge
(however expressed or effected);

42.c

reimbursement will be made in a manner prescribed by the Commissioners;

42.d

any part of the relevant amount that is not reimbursed by the time mentioned
in paragraph (a) will be repaid by C to the Commissioners;

42.e

any interest paid by the Commissioners on any relevant amount repaid by them
will also be treated by C in the same way as the relevant amount falls to be
treated under paragraphs (a) to (d); and

42.f

the records described in regulation 44(1) will be kept by C and produced by
them to the Commissioners in accordance with that regulation.

#### Reimbursement arrangements: repayments

43

C must, without prior demand, make any repayment to the Commissioners that C
is required to make by virtue of regulation 42(d) or (e) before the end of the
period of 14 days beginning with the day after the expiry of the period
referred to in regulation 42(a).

#### Records relating to reimbursement arrangements: keeping and production

44

44.1

C must keep records in writing of the following matters—

44.1.a

the names and addresses of those persons whom C has reimbursed or whom C
intends to reimburse;

44.1.b

the total amount reimbursed to each such person;

44.1.c

the amount of interest included in the total amount reimbursed to each such
person; and

44.1.d

the date that each reimbursement is made.

44.2

C must preserve such records for the period of 6 years beginning with—

44.2.a

the last day of the accounting period to which the records relate; or

44.2.b

the day C makes the reimbursement to which the records relate,

whichever is the later.

44.3

Where an officer of HMRC gives C notice in accordance with paragraph (4)
below, C must, in accordance with such notice, produce to the Commissioners or
to an officer of HMRC the records that C is required to keep pursuant to
paragraph (1).

44.4

A notice given for the purposes of paragraph (3) must—

44.4.a

be in writing;

44.4.b

state the day on which and the place and time at which the records are to be
produced;

44.4.c

be signed and dated by an officer of HMRC, and

may be given before or after, or both before and after, the Commissioners have
paid the relevant amount to C.

#### Undertakings

45

45.1

The undertakings referred to in regulation 41(b) must be given to the
Commissioners by C no later than the time at which C makes the claim for which
the reimbursement arrangements have been made.

45.2

The undertakings must be in writing and be signed and dated by C, and must be
to the effect that—

45.2.a

at the day of the undertaking, C is able to identify the names and addresses
of those persons whom C has reimbursed or intends to reimburse;

45.2.b

C will apply the whole of the relevant amount repaid to them (without any
deduction by way of fee, charge or otherwise) to the reimbursement of such
persons, before the end of a period of 90 days beginning with the day after
the day on which C receives the amount (unless C has already properly
reimbursed the persons);

45.2.c

C will apply any interest paid on the relevant amount repaid to C wholly to
the reimbursement of such persons before the end of a period of 90 days
beginning with the day after the day on which that interest is received;

45.2.d

C will repay to the Commissioners without demand the whole, or such part, of
the relevant amount repaid or any interest paid to C as C fails to apply in
accordance with the undertakings mentioned in sub-paragraphs (b) or (c);

45.2.e

C will keep the records described in regulation 44(1); and

45.2.f

C will comply with any notice given in accordance with regulation 44(4)
concerning the production of such records.

#### Secondary liability and assessment notices

##### Interpretation

46

In this Part, “ Schedule 9 ” means Schedule 9 to the Act (plastic packaging
tax: secondary liability and assessment notices and joint and several
liability notices).

##### Secondary liability and assessment notices: factors that may be taken into account

47

47.1

This regulation applies for the purposes of determining the factors the
Commissioners may take into account in considering whether to give a secondary
liability and assessment notice to R  under paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 9.

47.2

The Commissioners may take into account—

47.2.a

the relationship between R and P, including—

47.2.a.i

whether R and P are connected persons within the meaning of section 1122 of
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 ;

47.2.a.ii

whether R and P have any contractual or commercial relationship;

47.2.b

whether R has conducted sufficient due diligence in order to make themselves
aware of P’s compliance with any requirement relating to plastic packaging
tax, including whether R has—

47.2.b.i

required any information or evidence from P;

47.2.b.ii

kept any information or evidence which relates to P;

47.2.b.iii

assessed the reliability or veracity of the information or evidence under sub-
paragraphs (i) or (ii) with reasonable care;

47.2.b.iv

included any contractual terms in relation to ensuring the payment of plastic
packaging tax in their commercial agreements with P;

47.2.c

the circumstances of the production, importation, transportation, storage or
supply of, or R’s dealing with, a chargeable plastic packaging component,
including—

47.2.c.i

R’s reasons for having possession or control of the chargeable plastic
packaging component;

47.2.c.ii

R’s conduct, including any refusal by R to disclose to the Commissioners the
intended use of the chargeable plastic packaging component;

47.2.c.iii

R’s intended use of the chargeable plastic packaging component;

47.2.c.iv

the content of any document or other information relating to the chargeable
plastic packaging component;

47.2.c.v

the extent of R’s knowledge about P failing to pay plastic packaging tax;

47.2.c.vi

the use or condition of the chargeable plastic packaging component, including
any change to that use or condition;

47.2.c.vii

the use or condition of any goods contained, handled, delivered or presented
in or by the chargeable packaging component;

47.2.c.viii

the number of chargeable plastic packaging components produced, imported,
transported, stored, supplied or otherwise dealt with;

47.2.c.ix

the open market price of the chargeable packaging component at the time that R
deals with it;

47.2.c.x

the open market price of the goods contained, handled, delivered or presented
in or by the chargeable packaging component at the time that they are first
contained, handled, delivered or presented in or by that component; and

47.2.d

any other circumstance that appears to the Commissioners to be relevant.

47.3

The Commissioners may prescribe for the purposes of paragraph (2)(b) the
factors they may take into account in considering whether due diligence checks
carried out by R are sufficient.

##### Secondary liability and assessment notices: applications to revoke or reduce amount

48

48.1

An application under paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 9 by R must be made in writing
in the form and manner prescribed by the Commissioners and contain the
information in paragraph (2).

48.2

The information that must be supplied by R under paragraph (1) is—

48.2.a

an explanation of why the revocation or reduction is appropriate;

48.2.b

for an application under paragraph 5(1)(a) of Schedule 9, an explanation of
how R has taken all reasonable steps to establish that P had paid or intended
to pay all the plastic packaging tax which P was liable to pay at the relevant
time;

48.2.c

for an application under paragraph 5(1)(b) of Schedule 9—

48.2.c.i

a calculation of the reduced amount that R claims it would be just and
reasonable for R to pay; and

48.2.c.ii

an explanation of why the reduced amount is just and reasonable.

48.3

The steps taken by R which are to be regarded as reasonable for the purposes
of paragraph 5(1)(a) of Schedule 9 may include such further steps as the
Commissioners may prescribe.

48.4

An officer of HMRC may by notice in writing require P or R—

48.4.a

to provide information; or

48.4.b

to produce a document,

if the information or document is reasonably required by the Commissioners for
the purposes of determining whether a revocation or reduction of a secondary
liability and assessment notice is appropriate.

#### Joint and several liability notices

##### Joint and several liability notices: factors that may be taken into account

49

49.1

This regulation applies for the purposes of determining the factors the
Commissioners may take into account in considering whether to give a joint and
several liability notice to R  under paragraph 10(1) of Schedule 9.

49.2

The Commissioners may take into account—

49.2.a

what business R carries out, including whether R is involved in transporting,
storing or otherwise dealing with a chargeable plastic packaging component;

49.2.b

the relationship between R and P, including—

49.2.b.i

whether R and P are connected persons within the meaning of section 1122 of
the Corporation Tax Act 2010;

49.2.b.ii

whether R and P have any contractual or commercial relationship;

49.2.c

the circumstances of the production, importation, transportation, storage,
supply of, or R’s dealing with, a chargeable plastic packaging component,
including—

49.2.c.i

R’s reasons for having possession or control of the chargeable plastic
packaging component, including transporting, storing or otherwise dealing with
the component;

49.2.c.ii

R’s knowledge of P’s lack of intention to pay plastic packaging tax;

49.2.c.iii

R’s conduct, including any refusal by R to disclose to the Commissioners the
intended use of the chargeable plastic packaging component;

49.2.c.iv

R’s intended use of the chargeable plastic packaging component;

49.2.c.v

the content of any document or other information R has kept relating to the
chargeable plastic packaging component;

49.2.c.vi

the use or condition of the chargeable plastic packaging component, including
any change to that use or condition;

49.2.c.vii

the use or condition of any goods contained, handled, delivered or presented
in or by the chargeable packaging component;

49.2.c.viii

the number of chargeable plastic packaging components produced, imported,
transported, stored, supplied or otherwise dealt with;

49.2.c.ix

the open market price of the chargeable packaging component at the time that R
deals with it;

49.2.c.x

the open market price of the goods contained, handled, delivered or presented
in or by the chargeable packaging component at the time that they are first
contained, handled, delivered or presented in or by that component; and

49.2.d

any other circumstance that appears to the Commissioners be relevant.

49.3

In a case where paragraph 10(2) of Schedule 9 applies, the Commissioners may
also take into account whether R has conducted sufficient due diligence in
order to make themselves aware of P’s compliance with any requirement relating
to plastic packaging tax, including whether R has—

49.3.a

conducted any checks in relation to P’s compliance with any such requirement;

49.3.b

required any information or evidence from P;

49.3.c

kept any information or evidence which relates to P;

49.3.d

assessed the reliability or veracity of information or evidence under sub-
paragraphs (b) or (c) with reasonable care; and

49.3.e

included any contractual terms in relation to ensuring the payment of plastic
packaging tax in their commercial agreements with P.

49.4

The Commissioners may prescribe for the purposes of paragraph (3) the factors
they may take into account in considering whether due diligence checks carried
out by R are sufficient.

##### Joint and several liability notices: notifications and applications to revoke

50

50.1

A notification made by R under paragraph 13(1) of Schedule 9 must—

50.1.a

be made in writing in a form and manner prescribed by the Commissioners; and

50.1.b

include the following information—

50.1.b.i

an explanation of why the revocation is appropriate and, in particular, why
paragraph 10(2)(a) or (3)(a) of Schedule 9 do not apply, or have ceased to
apply, to R; and

50.1.b.ii

if relevant, the day on which either of those paragraphs ceased to apply to R.

50.2

An application made by P under paragraph 14(1) of Schedule 9 must—

50.2.a

be made in writing in a form and manner prescribed by the Commissioners; and

50.2.b

include an explanation of why the revocation is appropriate and, in
particular, why the conditions in paragraph 10(2) or (3) of Schedule 9 do not
apply to R —

50.2.b.i

in relation to anything done or not done by P; or

50.2.b.ii

in relation to the intention of P.

50.3

An officer of HMRC may by notice in writing require P or R—

50.3.a

to provide information; or

50.3.b

to produce a document,

if the information or document is reasonably required by the Commissioners for
the purposes of determining whether a revocation of a joint and several
liability notice is appropriate.

### Groups

#### Interpretation

51

In this Part, “ Schedule 13 ” means Schedule 13 to the Act (plastic packaging
tax: groups of companies).

#### Applications for group treatment

52

52.1

An application for group treatment under paragraph 3 of Schedule 13 must be
made in the form and manner prescribed by the Commissioners.

52.2

The Commissioners must prescribe the form and manner in which an application
for group treatment under paragraph 3 of Schedule 13 is to be made.

52.3

An application under paragraph (1) must include a declaration by the
representative member on behalf of all bodies to be treated as members of the
group that—

52.3.a

all bodies to be treated as members of the same group are eligible for group
treatment under paragraph 1(1) of Schedule 13;

52.3.b

the representative member is eligible under paragraph 1(2) of that Schedule;
and

52.3.c

the matters stated in the application are true and correct.

52.4

Applications under paragraph (1) are to be given electronically, subject to
such exceptions as the Commissioners may prescribe.

#### Other applications and notifications

53

53.1

Applications under paragraph 5(1) of Schedule 13  must be made in writing to
the Commissioners and include such information and particulars as they may
prescribe.

53.2

A notification under paragraph 11 of Schedule 13  must be made in writing to
the Commissioners and include such information and particulars as they may
prescribe.

53.3

The notification required by paragraph (2) must be given to the Commissioners
before the end of a period of 30 days beginning with the day after the day
that—

53.3.a

any member becomes aware that it ceases to be eligible under paragraph 11(1)
of Schedule 13; or

53.3.b

the representative member ceases to have an established place of business in
the United Kingdom.

#### Corrections to applications and notifications

54

54.1

A person who has made an application or notification to the Commissioners
under this Part must notify them of any information they have given which is,
or becomes, inaccurate.

54.2

A notification under paragraph (1) must be—

54.2.a

given to the Commissioners before the end of a period of 30 days beginning
with the day after the person discovers that the original notification is or
has become inaccurate; and

54.2.b

made in such form and manner as the Commissioners may prescribe.

### Miscellaneous matters

#### Partnerships and other unincorporated bodies

##### Unincorporated bodies: general

55

Anything done or required to be done by or under the Act in respect of a
business which is carried on by a partnership or another unincorporated body
may be done in the name of that firm or body.

##### Partnerships: compliance with requirements

56

56.1

This regulation applies for determining by what person anything required to be
done by or under the Act is to be done where that requirement would fall on
persons carrying on business in partnership.

56.2

Compliance with such a requirement by at least one of the partners shall
suffice as compliance by all of them.

56.3

In the case of a partnership whose principal place of business is in Scotland,
compliance by a person duly authorised by the partnership shall suffice as
compliance by the partners.

##### Partnerships: changes of partners etc.

57

57.1

Without prejudice to section 36 of the Partnership Act (rights of persons
dealing with firm against apparent members of firm), where—

57.1.a

persons have been carrying on in partnership any business in the course or
furtherance of which any chargeable plastic packaging component has been
produced or imported; and

57.1.b

a person ceases to be a member of the firm,

that person shall be regarded for the purposes of the Act as continuing to be
a partner until the day on which the change in the partnership is notified to
the Commissioners.

57.2

Without prejudice to section 16 of the Partnership Act (notice to acting
partner to be notice to the firm), any notice, whether of assessment or
otherwise, which—

57.2.a

is addressed to a firm by the name in which it is registered; and

57.2.b

is served in accordance with provisions by or under the Act,

shall be treated for purposes by or under the Act, as served on the firm and,
accordingly, where paragraph (3) applies, as served also on the former
partner.

57.3

Where a person ceases to be a member of a firm during an accounting period (or
is treated as so ceasing by virtue of paragraph (1)) any notice, whether of
assessment or otherwise, which—

57.3.a

is served on the firm for the purposes of any provision by or under the Act;
and

57.3.b

relates to, or to any matter arising in, that period or any earlier period
during the whole or part of which the person was a member of the firm,

shall be treated as also served on that person.

57.4

In this regulation, “ the Partnership Act ” means the Partnership Act 1890 .

##### Other unincorporated bodies

58

58.1

This regulation applies for determining by what persons anything required to
be done by or under the Act is to be done where that requirement would fall on
persons carrying on business together as an unincorporated body other than a
partnership.

58.2

Any thing required to be done by or under the Act must be done by any of the
following—

58.2.a

a person holding office in that body as president, chairman, treasurer,
secretary or other similar office;

58.2.b

if there is no such office holder, a person who is a member of a committee by
which the affairs of that body are managed; or

58.2.c

if there is no such member, a person carrying on that business.

58.3

Compliance with such a requirement by one or more of the persons referred to
in paragraph (2) shall suffice as compliance with that requirement by all of
them.

#### Death, incapacity etc.

##### Death, incapacity or insolvency

59

59.1

In paragraph (2), “ T ” means a person registered under section 56(3) of the
Act where the business of T is the business of producing or importing finished
plastic packaging components.

59.2

In relation to cases falling within section 74(1) of the Act, the person (“ P
”) who—

59.2.a

where T is an individual and T has died or become incapacitated, who carries
on the business of T on behalf of, or in succession to, T; or

59.2.b

acts as the insolvency practitioner in relation to the business of T, where T
is subject to an insolvency procedure,

must notify the Commissioners of that fact before the end of a period of 21
days beginning with the date on which P began to carry on the business or
began to act as described in relation to the business.

59.3

A notification under paragraph (2) must be in writing and include—

59.3.a

where T is an individual, evidence (including the date) of the death of T,
details of when and in what manner T became incapacitated, or of the date when
T first became subject to an insolvency procedure and the nature of that
procedure; and

59.3.b

evidence of P’s authority to carry on, or act in relation to, the business.

59.4

The Commissioners may treat P as if they were T for the purposes of plastic
packaging tax for a period of up to 6 months beginning with the day by which
notification under paragraph (2) is required.

59.5

The Commissioners may extend the period in paragraph (4) by notice in writing
to P for such additional period as they see fit.

59.6

In this regulation—

59.6.a

“ insolvency practitioner ” means—

59.6.a.i

a trustee in bankruptcy;

59.6.a.ii

in Scotland, a trustee (or interim trustee) in the sequestration of a person’s
estate under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 ;

59.6.a.iii

a liquidator;

59.6.a.iv

a receiver;

59.6.a.v

an administrator; or

59.6.a.vi

anyone acting in an equivalent capacity in respect of an insolvency procedure;

59.6.b

“ insolvency procedure ” means—

59.6.b.i

in respect of an individual in Scotland, the sequestration of that person’s
estate under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016; or

59.6.b.ii

in any other case, bankruptcy, winding-up, receivership, administration or an
equivalent procedure, including under the law of a jurisdiction outside the
United Kingdom.

      Jim Harra   Myrtle Lloyd   Two of the Commissioners for Her Majesty’s
Revenue and Customs   8th February 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

The Regulations make provision for plastic packaging tax, introduced by Part 2
of the Finance Act  2021 (c. 26)  (“ the Act ”).

Regulation 1 provides for citation and commencement, regulation 2 gives
definitions used in the Regulations and regulation 3 defines the term
“prescribed”.

Regulations 4 and 5 set out how to determine whether a packaging component
containing plastic is a plastic packaging component, including listing the
substances other than plastic that must be measured to determine whether a
packaging component that contains plastic is or is not a plastic packaging
component.

Regulations 6 and 7 set out the method for calculating the recycled plastic
content of a plastic packaging component and require a person to have
“sufficient evidence” that plastic is recycled plastic and for the
Commissioners to prescribe what sufficient evidence constitutes.

Regulation 8 defines the term “ substantial modification ” for the purposes of
determining when a plastic packaging component is finished (see section 47 of
the Act).

Regulations 9 to 11 make provision for when the direct export condition (see
section 51 of the Act) ceases to be met, require “sufficient evidence” to be
kept if the direct export condition ceases to be met and require the
Commissioners to prescribe what “ sufficient evidence ” means. They also
specify the further conditions that apply for the direct export condition to
be met.

Regulations 12 to 19 make provision requiring the Commissioners to prescribe
what “ sufficient evidence ” means, setting out the cases in which a liable
person is entitled to a tax credit, the procedure for claiming a tax credit
and the payment by the Commissioners of tax credits, the repayment of tax
credits to the Commissioners, records that must be kept in relation to a tax
credit claim, for entitlements to tax credits where a person becomes a member
of a group or ceases to carry on a business or is no longer liable to pay the
tax.

Regulations 20 to 22 make provision requiring the Commissioners to prescribe
the form and manner of a notification of liability to be registered, sets out
the information that must be included in such a notification, require a record
of evidence to be kept in relation to it and provides the circumstances when a
person must notify the Commissioners of any corrections to the register and
for the register to be corrected by the Commissioners as they see fit.

Regulations 23 to 26 make provision in relation to the measurement of weight
for plastic packaging tax, specifying the time by reference to which weight
should be measured, permitting the Commissioners to agree a method for
measuring weight and requiring the Commissioners to prescribe specified rules
for measuring weight where an agreed method is not used, not complied with, or
that method does not apply. Regulation 27 sets out a requirement to re-weigh
in certain circumstances. Regulation 28 sets out the records to be kept in
relation to weighing.

Regulation 29 allows the Commissioners to determine the weight of any thing to
the best of their judgement in certain circumstances and substitute their
determination for any measurement or calculation of weight made by any person.

Regulations 30 to 38 make provision applying the regulations on accounting and
returns to persons liable to be registered for plastic packaging tax, setting
out the accounting periods which apply to the tax, when payment of the tax
must be made and for the Commissioners to prescribe the method by which
payment must be made. These regulations require persons liable to be
registered for the tax to make a return for each accounting period (and set
out the timing for doing so), set out the form and manner of the return and
what it must include and for errors in a return to be corrected as prescribed
by the Commissioners (and the timing for doing so). These provisions also
require persons liable to be registered to keep accounts for each accounting
period, set out what the accounts must include and the period for preserving
those accounts. These regulations also provide for records to be kept as
prescribed by the Commissioners, as well as providing for a further record-
keeping requirement in relation to waste or surplus material attached to a
plastic packaging component at the time of the chargeable event and the period
for which records required to be kept by or under the Act must be preserved.

Regulations 39 to 45 provide for the form, manner and content of claims for
the repayment of overpaid plastic packaging tax, set out what must be included
in reimbursement arrangements made by the claimant of a repayment claim,
requiring payments under these reimbursement arrangements to be made within a
certain period, setting out records required to be kept and produced in
relation to reimbursement arrangements and for the undertakings that must be
given to the Commissioners for reimbursement arrangements.

Regulations 46 to 48 set out the factors the Commissioners may take into
account in considering whether they may give a secondary liability and
assessment notice (under paragraph 2(1) of Schedule 9 to the Act) and more
detail about how applications to revoke a secondary liability and assessment
notice should be made and what information they should contain.

Regulations 49 to 50 set out the factors the Commissioners may take into
account in considering whether they may give a joint and several liability
notice (under paragraph 10(1) of Schedule 9 to the Act) and set out more
detail about how notifications and applications to revoke a joint and several
liability notice should be made and what information they should contain.

Regulations 51 to 54 make provision in respect of how applications for group
treatment and other applications and notifications relating to group treatment
should be made, what information they should include and also require
inaccuracies in an application or notification relating to group treatment to
be corrected as prescribed by the Commissioners (and the time limit for doing
so)

Regulations 55 to 58 make provision for anything required to be done under the
Act by a partnership or unincorporated body to be done in the name of that
firm or body, for joint and several responsibility for a partnership or
unincorporated body for anything required to be done by or under the Act and
sets out the treatment of partners where there is a change in the membership.

Regulation 59 makes provision for the death, incapacity or insolvency of a
person registered for the purposes of plastic packaging tax.

A Tax Information and Impact Note covering this instrument was published on 20
July 2021 and is available on the website at
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/introduction-of-plastic-packaging-
tax-from-april-2022/introduction-of-plastic-packaging-tax-2021 .

