Title: The Marine Protected Areas (Prohibited Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-12-22
Description: These Regulations prohibit fishing for sea-fish by demersal mobile and static fishing gear in the waters in a number of marine protected areas which were designated under The Conservation (Natural Habitats, etc.) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1995 and the Marine Act (Northern Ireland) 2013.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/292

## The Marine Protected Areas (Prohibited Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Sea Fisheries

  Made   1st November 2022

  Coming into operation-   1st January 2023

      The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs , in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 19(1) and 124(1), (2) and (2A) of
the Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 , makes the following Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Marine Protected Areas (Prohibited
Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come into
operation on 1st January 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966;           “
Carlingford Lough Marine Conservation Zone ” means the areas of the sea drawn
by a series of straight lines joining each of the points lettered
alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 1, the coordinates which are set out in
columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in sequence, with a
line drawn joining the final point in the sequence to the point lettered A in
the sequence.           “ co-ordinate ” means a co-ordinate on the World
Geodetic System 1984 Datum and co-ordinate reference system ;           “
demersal mobile gear ” means any fishing gear that is towed along the sea bed
or is otherwise moved through the water on or close to the sea bed to catch
fish, and includes, for example, a dredge, demersal seine net and demersal
trawl net;           “ demersal seine net ” means a fishing gear assembly
incorporating a conical shaped net and ropes, constructed to catch fish by the
method of encirclement, and which is towed along the sea bed by a fishing
boat;           “ demersal trawl net ” means a fishing gear assembly
incorporating a conical shaped net, ropes and devices to hold open the mouth
of the net, constructed to catch fish whilst being towed along the sea bed by
a fishing boat;           “ dredge ” means a mechanical dredge or suction
dredge;           “ mechanical dredge ” means a device with a rigid framed
mouth constructed to catch shell-fish whilst being towed along the sea bed by
a fishing boat;           “ Murlough Bay Special Area of Conservation ” means
the area of the sea drawn by a line joining each of the points lettered
alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 2, the coordinates which are set out in
columns 2 and 3 opposite each point,           “ Outer Belfast Lough Marine
Conservation Zone ” means the area of the sea drawn by a series of straight
lines joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in column 1 in
Schedule 3, the coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each
point, to the next point in sequence, with a line drawn joining the final
point in the sequence to the point lettered A in the sequence.           “
Rathlin Island restricted area ” means the area of the sea drawn by a series
of straight lines joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in column
1 in Schedule 4A, the coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3
opposite each point, to the next point in sequence.           “ Rathlin Island
Special Area of Conservation and Marine Conservation Zone ” means the area of
the sea drawn by a series of straight lines joining each of the points
lettered alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 4, the coordinates which are
set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in sequence,
with a line drawn joining the final point in the sequence to the point
lettered A in the sequence.           “ Red Bay Special Area of Conservation ”
means the areas of the sea drawn by a series of straight lines joining each of
the points lettered alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 5, the coordinates
which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in
sequence.           “ Skerries and Causeway exempted areas ” means the areas
of sea drawn by a series of straight lines joining each of the points lettered
alphabetically in column 1 in each table in Schedule 6A, the coordinates which
are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in
sequence, with a line drawn joining the final point in the sequence to the
point lettered A in the sequence.           “ Skerries and Causeway restricted
area ” means the area of sea south of Great Skerries Island which is bounded
by a series of straight lines joining each of the points lettered
alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 6B, the coordinates which are set out
in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in sequence.
“ Skerries and Causeway Special Area of Conservation ” means the areas of the
sea drawn by a series of straight lines joining each of the points lettered
alphabetically in column 1 in Schedule 6, the coordinates which are set out in
columns 2 and 3 opposite each point, to the next point in sequence.
“ static gear ” means any pot, creel, receptacle or container with one or more
openings or entrances and which is capable of being left at sea to catch
crustaceans or molluscs.           “ Strangford Lough Marine Conservation Zone
restricted area ” means the areas of the sea southwest of an imaginary line
drawn from Killard Point to Ballyquintin Point which is bounded by a series of
straight lines joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in column 1
in Schedule 7, the coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite
each point, to the next point in sequence;           “ single pot ” means a
pot or creel not connected to another pot or creel by a rope;           “
suction dredge ” means—         a dredge which raises material or shell-fish
from the sea bed using a solids pump, water pump, air lift, air jets or water
jets which dig into the sea bed; or           any other mechanical, pneumatic
or hydraulic device which raises material or shell-fish from the sea bed by
means of suction or pumping;                 “ The Maidens Special Areas of
Conservation ” means the areas of the sea drawn by a series of straight lines
joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in column 1 of each table
in Schedule 8, the coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite
each point, to the next point in sequence, with a line drawn joining the final
point in the sequence to the point lettered A in the sequence; and           “
Waterfoot Marine Conservation Zone ” means the area of the sea drawn by a
series of straight lines joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in
column 1 in Schedule 9, the coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3
opposite each point, to the next point in sequence, with a line drawn joining
the final point in the sequence to the point lettered A in the sequence.

### Prohibited methods of fishing

3

3.1

Subject to regulation 4 fishing for sea-fish using demersal mobile gear is
prohibited in—

3.1.a

Carlingford Lough Marine Conservation Zone;

3.1.b

Murlough Special Area of Conservation;

3.1.c

Outer Belfast Lough Marine Conservation Zone;

3.1.d

Rathlin Island Special Area of Conservation and Marine Conservation Zone;

3.1.e

Red Bay Special Area of Conservation;

3.1.f

Skerries and Causeway Special Area of Conservation;

3.1.g

Strangford Lough Marine Conservation Zone  ...;

3.1.h

The Maidens Special Areas of Conservation; and

3.1.i

Waterfoot Marine Conservation Zone.

3.2

Subject to regulation 4 fishing for sea-fish using static gear is prohibited
in—

3.2.a

Rathlin Island restricted area;

3.2.b

Red Bay Special Area of Conservation at a depth of 10 metres or more below
Chart Datum as shown on the Admiralty Chart ;

3.2.c

Skerries and Causeway restricted area; and

3.2.d

Waterfoot Marine Conservation Zone.

3.3

Where a fishing vessel is transiting any of the areas where the prohibitions
in regulation 3(1) apply the person in charge of the fishing vessel must
ensure that all demersal mobile gear is secured and stowed so that the gear
may not be readily used.

### Exceptions

4

4.1

The prohibitions in regulation 3 do not apply to any person who is operating
within any of those areas under the authority of and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a permit granted under section 14 of the Act.

4.2

The prohibition in regulation 3(1)(f) does not apply where a licence has been
granted in respect of a fishing vessel under section 15 of the Fisheries Act
2020  to fish using demersal mobile gear in the Skerries and Causeway exempted
areas.

4.3

The prohibition in regulation 3(2)(a) does not apply to any person fishing
with single pots at a depth of less than 10   metres  below Chart Datum as
shown on the Admiralty Chart .

### Revocation

5

The following regulations are revoked—

5.a

The Razor Shells (Prohibition of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1998

5.b

The Rathlin Island (Prohibited Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 2016 .

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Agriculture,
Environment and Rural Affairs on 1st November 2022         Owen Lyttle   A
senior officer of the   Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural
Affairs

## SCHEDULES

  Carlingford Lough Marine Conservation Zone

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 5.763’N 6° 14.862’W B. 54° 5.754’N 6°
13.471’W C. 54° 5.265’N 6° 11.535’W D. 54° 5.053’N 6° 11.492’W E. 54° 4.653’N
6° 12.192’W

  Murlough Bay Special Area of Conservation

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 13.472’N 005° 39.547’W B. 54°
07.240’N 005° 52.969’W

  Outer Belfast Lough Marine Conservation Zone

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 42.711’N 5° 36.670’W B. 54° 42.707’N
5° 34.734’W C. 54° 42.315’N 5° 34.733’W D. 54° 42.316’N 5° 35.203’W E. 54°
41.978’N 5° 35.203’W F. 54° 41.979’N 5° 36.672’W

  Rathlin Island Special Area of Conservation and Marine Conservation Zone

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 55° 22.849’N 006° 10.894’W B. 55°
18.672’N 006° 07.220’W C. 55° 17.529’N 006° 07.256’W D. 55° 17.579’N 006°
09.599’W E. 55° 15.215’N 006° 09.714’W F. 55° 15.277’N 006° 13.880’W G 55°
17.044’N 006° 13.808’W H 55° 17.104’N 006° 18.060’W I 55° 20.764’N 006°
17.906’W

  Rathlin Island restricted area

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 55° 17.50224’N 006° 14.9902’W B. 55°
17.46768’N 006° 14.991’W C. 55° 17.2701’N 006° 15.0012’W D. 55° 17.2815’N 006°
15.6948’W E. 55° 17.36214’N 006° 15.6912’W F. 55° 17.40138’N 006° 15.6893’W

Red Bay Special Area of Conservation

Regulation 3

Points Latitude Longitude A. 55° 08.440’N   006° 01.492’W   B. 55° 08.440’N
006° 00.516’W   C.   55° 05.450’N     006° 00.516’W   D. 55° 05.450’N   006°
02.816’W

Skerries and Causeway Special Area of Conservation

Regulation 3

Points Latitude Longitude A. 55° 11.300’N 006° 43.269’W B. 55° 11.300’N 006°
44.200’W C.   55° 13.540’N   006° 44.200’W D. 55° 17.000’N 006° 36.930’W E.
55° 17.000’N   006° 26.920’W   F. 55° 14.360’N 006° 26.920’W

  Skerries and Causeway exempted areas

Regulation 3

  Area 1       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 55° 14.064’N 006° 36.968’W B.
55° 13.740’N 006° 36.016’W C. 55° 13.623’N 006° 36.004’W D. 55° 13.546’N 006°
38.546’W E. 55° 13.221’N 006° 39.805’W F. 55° 12.998’N 006° 39.977’W G. 55°
13.573’N 006° 40.079’W H. 55° 13.584’N 006° 39.080’W I. 55° 13.692’N 006°
38.854’W J. 55° 13.801’N 006° 38.848’W

  Area 2       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 55° 17.001’N 006° 35.862’W B.
55° 16.858’N 006° 29.041’W C. 55° 16.497N 006° 31.064’W D. 55° 15.655’N 006°
33.760’W E. 55° 15.412’N 006° 33.529’W F. 55° 15.000’N 006° 35.146’W G 55°
14.853’N 006° 36.040’W H 55° 15.100’N 006° 36.044’W I 55° 15.214’N 006°
36.949’W J 55° 15.393’N 006° 37.524’W K 55° 15.391’N 006° 36.977’W L 55°
16.589’N 006° 35.266’W M 55° 16.814’N 006° 35.274’W N 55° 16.771’N 006°
36.430’W O 55° 17.006’N 006° 35.869’W

  Skerries and Causeway restricted area

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 55° 13.308’N 006° 37.481’W B. 55°
13.286’N 006° 38.230’W C. 55° 13.363’N 006° 38.235’W D. 55° 13.369’N 006°
37.477’W

  Strangford Lough Marine Conservation Zone

Regulation 3

      Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 23.122’N 005° 27.589’W B. 54°
23.041’N 005° 27.404’W C. 54° 22.211’N 005° 27.589’W D. 54° 19.681’N 005°
29.119’W E. 54° 16.517’N 005° 33.385’W F. 54° 16.518’N 005° 34.478’W

The Maidens Special Areas of Conservation

Regulation 3

  Area 1   Points Latitude Longitude A. 55° 01.160’N 005° 42.600’W B. 54°
59.560’N 005° 41.140’W C. 54° 59.060’N 005° 43.630’W D. 55° 00.650’N 005°
45.090’W

Area 2 Points Latitude Longitude A. 54° 57.900’N 005° 39.210’W B. 54° 57.000’N
005° 39.150’W C. 54° 56.990’N 005° 40.180’W D. 54° 57.870’N 005° 40.240’W

Area 3 Points Latitude Longitude A. 55° 00.330’N 005° 47.060’W B. 54° 58.080’N
005° 45.010’W   C. 54° 57.250’N   005° 42.250’W   D. 54° 54.100’N 005°
42.040’W E 54° 54.150’N 005° 44.290’W F 54° 51.990’N 005° 44.150’W G 54°
53.610’N 005° 47.910’W H 55° 00.120’N 005° 48.360’W

Waterfoot   Marine Conservation Zone

Regulation 3

Points Latitude Longitude A. 55° 04.260’N 006° 03.151’W B. 55° 04.261’N 006°
03.038’W C. 55° 04.015’N 006° 02.950’W D. 55° 03.582’N 006° 02.243’W E. 55°
03.384’N 006° 02.215’W F. 55° 03.312’N 006° 02.631’W G. 55° 03.780’N 006°
03.283’W H. 55° 03.936’N 006° 03.058’W

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations prohibit fishing for sea-fish by demersal mobile and
static fishing gear in the waters in a number of marine protected areas which
were designated under The Conservation (Natural Habitats, etc.) Regulations
(Northern Ireland) 1995 and the Marine Act (Northern Ireland) 2013.

  Regulation 3 prohibits fishing within the respective marine protected areas
using demersal fishing gear and static fishing gear.

  Regulation 4 provides for exceptions to the prohibitions in regulation 3.

  Regulation 5 revokes some Statutory Rules as a consequence of the
Regulations.

  Contravention of these Regulations is an offence under section 124(3) of the
Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966. The penalty on summary conviction is a
fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (£5,000).

