Title: The Monmouthshire (Communities) Order 2022
Date: 2024-07-17
Description: The Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales (“the Commission”) reported in January 2019 on a review of community arrangements in the County of Monmouthshire conducted by Monmouthshire County Council. The Commission’s Report recommended changes to the existing boundaries of communities within the area of Monmouthshire County Council and consequential changes to electoral arrangements.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/279

## The Monmouthshire (Communities) Order 2022

Local Government, Wales

Made 11 March 2022

Coming into force in accordance with article 1(2) and (3)

The Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales  has, in accordance with
sections 54(1) and 58(1) of the Local Government Act 1972  (“ the 1972 Act ”),
submitted to the Welsh Ministers  a report dated January 2019 containing its
recommendations for change and the details of a review of community
arrangements within the County of Monmouthshire conducted by Monmouthshire
County Council. The Welsh Ministers have decided to give effect to the
Commission’s recommendations without modification. In accordance with section
58(2) of the 1972 Act, more than 6 weeks have elapsed since those
recommendations were submitted to the Welsh Ministers. The Welsh Ministers
make the following Order in exercise of their powers conferred on the
Secretary of State by section 58(2) of the 1972 Act, and now vested in them,
so far as exercisable in relation to Wales.

### Title and commencement

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Monmouthshire (Communities) Order 2022.

1.2

For any purpose set out in regulation 4(1) of the Regulations, this Order
comes into force on 15 March 2022.

1.3

For all other purposes, this Order comes into force immediately after 23.59
hours on the day before the ordinary day of election of councillors in 2022 .

### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

“ electoral ward ” (“ ward etholiadol ”) means any area for which councillors
are elected to Monmouthshire County Council; “ map ” (“ map ”) means the map
marked “Map of the Monmouthshire (Communities) Order 2022” deposited in
accordance with regulation 5 of the Regulations; “ the Regulations ” (“ y
Rheoliadau ”) means the Local Government Area Changes Regulations 1976 ; where
a boundary is shown on the map as running along a road, railway line, footway,
watercourse or similar geographical feature, it is to be treated as running
along the centre line of the feature.

2.2

The provisions in this Order take precedence over any conflicting provision in
any previous order made under section 58(2) of the Local Government Act 1972
or order made under section 38(1) or 39(1) of the  Democracy and Boundary
Commission Cymru etc. Act 2013 .

### Community of Caldicot — changes in community ward boundaries and consequential changes to electoral wards

3

The area shown hatched on the map—

3.a

is transferred from The Village ward of the community of Caldicot to the
Caldicot Cross ward of the community of Caldicot;

3.b

forms part of the electoral ward of Caldicot Cross.

Rebecca Evans Minister for Finance and Local Government, one of the Welsh
Ministers 11 March 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Order)

The Local Democracy and Boundary Commission for Wales (“ the Commission ”)
reported in January 2019 on a review of community arrangements in the County
of Monmouthshire conducted by Monmouthshire County Council. The Commission’s
Report recommended changes to the existing boundaries of communities within
the area of Monmouthshire County Council and consequential changes to
electoral arrangements.

The Commission’s proposals have been largely implemented by the Welsh
Ministers in the Monmouthshire (Communities) Order 2021 (“ the 2021 Order ”).

Article 3 of this Order takes precedence over article 42 of the 2021 Order
(insofar as that article relates to the transfer of area from the Green Lane
ward of the community of Caldicot to The Village ward of the community of
Caldicot), in order to give full effect to the Commission’s proposals.

The Welsh Ministers’ Code of Practice on the carrying out of Regulatory Impact
Assessments was considered in relation to this Order. As a result, it was not
considered necessary to carry out a regulatory impact assessment as to the
likely costs and benefits of complying with this Order.

Prints of the map to which this Order relates are deposited in the office of
the Welsh Government at Cathays Park, Cardiff, CF10 3NQ (Local Government
Democracy Division), and with Monmouthshire County Council. Prints deposited
with Monmouthshire County Council are open to inspection by anyone affected by
the provisions of this Order.

