Title: The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-12-01
Description: Part 2 of these Regulations enables certain persons to access income-related benefits upon arrival in Great Britain from Ukraine provided they meet the other relevant entitlement conditions.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/344

## The Social Security (Habitual Residence and Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

    Social Security

  Made   at 10.55 a.m. on 21st March 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 2.30 p.m. on 21st March 2022

  Coming into force   22nd March 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 64(1), 70(4), 71(6), 123(1)(a) and (d),
137(2)(a) and 175(3) and (4) of the Social Security Contributions and Benefits
Act 1992 , section 36(2) and (4)(a) of, and paragraph 11(2) of Schedule 1 to,
the Jobseekers Act 1995 , section 1(5)(a) of the State Pension Credit Act 2002
, section 25(2), (3) and (5)(a) of, and paragraph 5 of Schedule 2 to, the
Welfare Reform Act 2007  and sections 4(5)(a), 42(2) and (3)(a), 77(3), 92(1)
and 94(2) and (3)(a) of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 .     In respect of the
provisions relating to housing benefit, the Secretary of State has not
consulted organisations appearing to be representative of the authorities
concerned because it appears to the Secretary of State to be inexpedient to do
so by reason of the urgency of the matter .         For the same reason, it
appears to the Secretary of State to be inexpedient to refer the proposals to
make these Regulations to the Social Security Advisory Committee .

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Social Security (Habitual Residence and
Past Presence) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 22nd March
2022.

1.2

Part 2 extends to England and Wales and Scotland .

1.3

Part 3 extends to England and Wales only.

### AMENDMENTS TO BENEFIT LEGISLATION EXTENDING TO ENGLAND AND WALES AND SCOTLAND

#### Amendment of income-related benefit legislation

2

2.1

The provisions specified in paragraph (5) are amended as follows.

2.2

In   sub-paragraph (zzb) , for “(h)(iv)” substitute  “(h)” .

2.3

After sub-paragraph (zzb) insert—

2.3.zzc

a person in Great Britain who was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st
January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took
place on 24th February 2022 and—

2.3.zzc.i

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971 ; or

2.3.zzc.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act ;

.

2.4

In sub-paragraph (h), omit the words from “where that leave is” to the end of
that sub-paragraph.

2.5

Those provisions are—

2.5.a

regulation 21AA(4) of the Income Support (General) Regulations 1987 ;

2.5.b

regulation 85A(4) of the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 ;

2.5.c

regulation 2(4) of the State Pension Credit Regulations 2002 ;

2.5.d

regulation 10(3B) of the Housing Benefit Regulations 2006 ;

2.5.e

regulation 10(4A) of the Housing Benefit (Persons who have attained the
qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations 2006 ; and

2.5.f

regulation 70(4) of the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008 .

#### Amendment of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013

3

3.1

Regulation 9(4) of the Universal Credit Regulations 2013  is amended as
follows.

3.2

In   sub-paragraph (zb) , for “(e)(iv)” substitute  “(e)” .

3.3

After sub-paragraph (zb) insert—

3.3.zc

a person in Great Britain who was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st
January 2022, left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took
place on 24th February 2022 and—

3.3.zc.i

has been granted leave in accordance with immigration rules made under section
3(2) of the Immigration Act 1971; or

3.3.zc.ii

has a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning given in section
2 of that Act;

.

3.4

In sub-paragraph (e), omit the words from “where that leave is” to the end of
that sub-paragraph.

### AMENDMENTS TO BENEFIT LEGISLATION EXTENDING TO ENGLAND AND WALES ONLY

#### Amendment of disability and carers benefit legislation

4

4.1

The provisions specified in paragraph (4) are amended as follows.

4.2

In paragraph (1)—

4.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d), omit “or”;

4.2.b

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

or

4.2.b.f

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules or a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 where the person—

4.2.b.f.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022; and

4.2.b.f.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24th
February 2022.

.

4.3

In paragraph (1A), for “paragraph (1)(c), (d) or (e)” substitute  “any sub-
paragraph in paragraph (1)” .

4.4

Those provisions are—

4.4.a

regulation 9C of the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations 1976
;

4.4.b

regulation 2C of the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations 1991 ;
and

4.4.c

regulation 2C of the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance) Regulations
1991 .

#### Amendment of the Social Security (Personal Independence Payment) Regulations 2013

5

5.1

Regulation 23A of the Social Security (Personal Independence Payment)
Regulations 2013  is amended as follows.

5.2

In paragraph (1)—

5.2.a

at the end of sub-paragraph (d), omit “or”;

5.2.b

after sub-paragraph (e) insert—

or

5.2.b.f

leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom granted under or outside the
immigration rules or a right of abode in the United Kingdom within the meaning
given in section 2 of the Immigration Act 1971 where C—

5.2.b.f.i

was residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st January 2022; and

5.2.b.f.ii

left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which took place on 24th
February 2022.

.

5.3

In paragraph (1A), for “paragraph (1)(c), (d) or (e)” substitute  “any sub-
paragraph in paragraph (1)” .

      David Rutley   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Work and Pensions

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

Part 2 of these Regulations enables certain persons to access income-related
benefits upon arrival in Great Britain from Ukraine provided they meet the
other relevant entitlement conditions.

That Part amends the Income Support (General) Regulations 1987 ( S.I.
1987/1967 ), the Jobseeker’s Allowance Regulations 1996 ( S.I. 1996/207 ), the
State Pension Credit Regulations 2002 ( S.I. 2002/1792 ), the Housing Benefit
Regulations 2006 ( S.I. 2006/213 ), the Housing Benefit (Persons who have
attained the qualifying age for state pension credit) Regulations 2006 ( S.I.
2006/214 ), the Employment and Support Allowance Regulations 2008 ( S.I.
2008/794 ) and the Universal Credit Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/376 ) (“ the
income-related benefit regulations ”).

The income-related benefit regulations provide that a person is ineligible for
benefit where they are a “person from abroad”, “ a person not in Great Britain
” (for the purposes of the State Pension Credit Regulations 2002) or “ a
person treated as not being in Great Britain ” (for the purposes of the
Universal Credit Regulations 2013)”. That is to say where the person is not
habitually resident in the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, the Isle of
Man or the Republic of Ireland, subject to a list of exemptions.

Regulations 2(3) and 3(3) insert a new category into the list of persons who
are exempted from having to satisfy the habitual residence test. Those persons
are those in Great Britain who were residing in Ukraine immediately before 1st
January 2022 and left Ukraine in connection with the Russian invasion which
took place on 24th February 2022 and have either been granted leave in
accordance with immigration rules made under section 3(2) of the Immigration
Act  1971 (c. 77)  or who have a right of abode in the United Kingdom within
the meaning given in section 2 of that Act.

Regulations 2(4) and 3(4) make amendments so as to provide that any person who
has leave outside the immigration rules is to be treated as exempted from
having to satisfy the habitual residence test. Regulations 2(2) and 3(2) make
amendments which are consequential to those amendments.

Part 3 of these Regulations enables certain persons to access disability and
carers benefits upon arrival in England and Wales from Ukraine where they have
left Ukraine for the reasons given above, provided they meet the other
relevant entitlement conditions.

That Part amends the Social Security (Invalid Care Allowance) Regulations 1976
( S.I. 1976/409 ), the Social Security (Attendance Allowance) Regulations 1991
( S.I. 1991/2740 ), the Social Security (Disability Living Allowance)
Regulations 1991 ( S.I. 1991/2890 ) and the Social Security (Personal
Independence Payment) Regulations 2013 ( S.I. 2013/377 ) respectively, to
exempt the same group of people from the past presence test. This is the test
which normally has to be fulfilled in order to claim Carer’s Allowance,
Attendance Allowance, Disability Living Allowance and Personal Independence
Payment respectively. The past presence test normally requires that an
individual has been present in Great Britain for a specified period of time to
be eligible for those benefits. These amendments also remove the habitual
residence requirement for entitlement to disability benefits which would
otherwise apply to refugees and those who have humanitarian protection or
their dependants.

A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

