Title: The A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order authorises National Highways to construct a new 10 mile (16km) dual 2-lane carriageway from the Black Cat roundabout to Caxton Gibbet roundabout, to be known as the A421 (defined in the Order as the “new dual carriageway”) and in addition approximately 1.8 miles (3km) of tie-in works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/934

## The A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   18th August 2022

  Coming into force   8th September 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a Panel of three members (“the Panel”) (appointed
by the Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008
Act and the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .
The Panel, having considered the representations made and not withdrawn and
the application together with the accompanying documents, in accordance with
section 74(2) of the 2008 Act has submitted a report and recommendation to the
Secretary of State.       The Secretary of State, having considered the
representations made and not withdrawn, and the report and recommendation of
the panel, has decided to make an Order granting development consent for the
development described in the application with modifications which in the
opinion of the Secretary of State do not make any substantial changes to the
proposals comprised in the application.           The Secretary of State, in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 114 , 115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and
123 of, and paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 15, 17, 19 to 23, 26, 33, 36 and 37 of
Part 1 of Schedule 5 to, the 2008 Act, makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development
Consent Order 2022 and comes into force on 8th September 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

      “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;           “ the
1965 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ the 1980 Act ”
means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ the 1984 Act ” means
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;           “ the 2008 Act ” means the
Planning Act 2008 ;           “ address ” includes any number or address for
the purposes of electronic transmission;           “ advanced works permission
” means the planning permission in respect of land to the West of Hills Farm,
Station Road, Tempsford SG19 2BP for archaeological excavation and associated
engineering works granted by Central Bedfordshire Council on 8th April 2021,
with reference 20/04185/FULL;           “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as
in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;           “ authorised development ” means the
development and associated development described in Schedule 1 (authorised
development), and any other development authorised by this Order, which is
development within the meaning of section 32 (meaning of development) of the
2008 Act;           “ book of reference ” means the document of that
description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by
the Secretary of State as the book of reference for the purposes of this
Order;           “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in section 329(1)
(further provision as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act;           “
bridlepath ” means a way constituting or comprised in a highway over which the
public have a right of way on pedal cycles (other than pedal cycles which are
motor vehicles within the meaning of the Road Traffic Act 1988), on foot and
on horseback or leading a horse, but no other right of way;           “
building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of a building,
structure or erection;           “ Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited (company
number 10080864), whose registered office is at Cadent, Pilot Way, Ansty,
Coventry, England, CV7 9JU;           “ carriageway ” has the same meaning as
in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “ classification of road plans ”
means the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the classification of
road plans for the purposes of this Order;           “ commence ” means
beginning to carry out any material operation (as defined in section 56(4)  of
the 1990 Act) forming part of the authorised development other than any
operations consisting of pre-commencement works, and “ commencement ” is to be
construed accordingly;           “ Crown land plans ” means the document of
that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified by the Secretary of State as the Crown land plans for the purposes
of this Order;           “ cycle track ” has the same meaning as in section
329(1)  of the 1980 Act and for the purposes of this Order includes a right of
way on foot;           “ de-trunking plans ” means the document of that
description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by
the Secretary of State as the de-trunking plans for the purposes of this
Order;           “ electronic transmission ” means a communication
transmitted—         by means of an electronic communications network; or
by other means but while in electronic form,         and in this definition “
electronic communications network ” has the same meaning as in section 32(1)
(meaning of electronic communications networks and services) of the
Communications Act 2003 ;           “ engineering section drawings ” means the
document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified)
and certified as the engineering section drawings by the Secretary of State
for the purposes of this Order;           “ environmental masterplan ” means
the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the environmental
masterplan for the purposes of this Order;           “ environmental statement
” means the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to
be certified) and certified as the environmental statement by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order;           “ footpath ” and “ footway ”
have the same meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “
general arrangement plans ” means the document of that description listed in
Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State as the general arrangement plans for the purposes of this Order;
“ habitats plan ” means the document of that description listed in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the
habitats map for the purposes of this Order;           “ highway ”, “ highway
authority ” and “ local highway authority ” have the same meaning as in the
1980 Act;           “ land plans ” means the document of that description
listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified as the land
plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “
land adjacent to the Order limits ” means any land outside but adjacent to the
Order limits the use of which is reasonably necessary to construct the
authorised development or any section or part of the authorised development;
“ limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation referred to in article 8
(limits of deviation);           “ maintain ” includes, in relation any part
of the authorised development, to inspect, repair, adjust, alter, improve,
landscape, preserve, remove, reconstruct, refurbish or replace, provided such
works do not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects to those identified in the environmental statement and
any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be construed accordingly;           “ new
dual carriageway ” means a new 10 mile (16km) dual 2-lane carriageway from the
Black Cat junction to the Caxton Gibbet junction as shown on the works plans,
to be known as the A421, and comprised within the authorised development;
“ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is within the
limits of land to be acquired or used permanently or temporarily, and
described in the book of reference;           “ the Order limits ” means the
limits of land to be acquired permanently or used temporarily as shown on the
land plans, and the limits of land within which the authorised development, as
shown on the works plans, may be carried out;           “ owner ”, in relation
to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 (interpretation) of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;           “ permanent speed limit plans ” means
the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the permanent speed
limit plans for the purposes of this Order;           “ pre-commencement work
” means;         archaeological investigations and mitigation works;
environmental surveys;           pre-construction mitigation works;
investigations for the purpose of assessing and monitoring ground conditions
and levels;           remedial work in respect of any contamination or other
adverse ground conditions;           erection of any temporary means of
enclosure;           temporary hard standing;           receipt and erection
of construction plant and equipment;           diversion and laying of
underground apparatus and utilities;           protection works comprising
utilities protection works or fencing and protection slabs;
demolition;           site clearance;           construction compound set up;
and           the temporary display of site notices or advertisements;
“ the relevant local highway authority ” means, the local highway authority in
whose area the highway in question lies;           “ relevant planning
authority ” means in any given provision of this Order, the planning authority
for the land to which the provision relates;           “ special road ” means
a highway which is a special road in accordance with section 16  (general
provisions as to special roads) of the 1980 Act or by virtue of an order
granting development consent;           “ statutory undertaker ” means any
statutory undertaker for the purposes of section 127(8) (statutory
undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act;           “ street ” means a street within
the meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and undertakers) of the 1991
Act, together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways,
and includes part of a street;           “ street authority ”, in relation to
a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 (street works in England and
Wales) of the 1991 Act;           “ streets, rights of way and access plans ”
means the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified as the streets, rights of way and access plans by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “ traffic
authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic authorities) of
the 1984 Act;           “ traffic regulation measures plans ” means the
document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified)
and certified as the traffic regulation measures plans by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order;           “ tree constraints plan ”
means the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified as the tree constraints plan by the Secretary of
State for the purposes of this Order;           “ the tribunal ” means the
Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;           “ trunk road ” means a highway
which is a trunk road by virtue of—         section 10  (general provision as
to trunk roads) or section 19(1)  (certain special roads and other highways to
become trunk roads) of the 1980 Act;           an order made or direction
given under section 10 of that Act; or           an order granting development
consent; or           any other enactment;                 “ undertaker ”
means National Highways Limited, company number 09346363, whose registered
office is at Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ;
“ watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts,
culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except
a public sewer or drain; and           “ works plans ” means the document of
that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and
certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of
this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

References in this Order to the creation and acquisition of rights over land
include references to rights to oblige a party having an interest in land to
grant those rights referenced in the Order, at the direction of the
undertaker, either—

2.3.a

to an affected person directly, where that affected person’s land or rights
over land have been adversely affected by this Order, and, where that is the
case, the rights referenced in the Order are to be granted for the benefit of
the land in which that affected person has an interest at the time of the
making of this Order; or

2.3.b

to any statutory undertaker for the purposes of their undertaking.

2.4

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.5

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.6

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.7

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Part 1 of Schedule 1 (authorised development).

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

3.1

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 37 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and 38 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) do not apply in relation to the
construction of work or the carrying out of any operation required for the
purpose of, or in connection with, the construction of the authorised
development and, within the maintenance period defined in article 38(13), any
maintenance of any part of the authorised development.

3.2

The following provisions do not apply in relation to the construction of any
work or the carrying out of any operation required for the purpose of, or in
connection with, the construction of the authorised development—

3.2.a

regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the Environmental
Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016  in relation to the carrying
on of a flood risk activity;

3.2.b

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
paragraph 5, 6 or 6A of Schedule 25 (byelaw making powers of the appropriate
agency) to the Water Resources Act 1991 ;

3.2.c

section 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc. in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ;

3.2.d

section 32  (variation of awards) of the Land Drainage Act 1991;

3.2.e

section 15 (temporary closure of recreational waterways) of the Anglian Water
Authority Act 1977 ;

3.2.f

Part 11 (Community Infrastructure Levy) of the 2008 Act; and

3.2.g

the provisions of any byelaws made under section 66  (powers to make byelaws)
of the Land Drainage Act 1991.

3.3

In paragraph (2)(a) “ flood risk activity ” has the meaning given in the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016.

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

4

4.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out within the Order limits.

4.2

Any enactment applying to land within the Order limits or land adjacent to the
Order limits has effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

5

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Application of the 1990 Act

6

6.1

This article applies where the Order land is used for the temporary
construction works.

6.2

Where this article applies, section 57(2) of the 1990 Act (planning permission
required for development) applies as if the development consent granted by
this Order were planning permission granted for a limited period.

6.3

In this article, “ the temporary construction works ” means works within the
proposed multiple purpose construction areas, the proposed soil storage areas,
the proposed site compound areas and the proposed borrow land areas as shown
on the general arrangement plans.

#### Planning permission

7

7.1

If planning permission is issued pursuant to the 1990 Act for development any
part of which is within the Order limits following the publication of this
Order that is—

7.1.a

not itself a nationally significant infrastructure project under the 2008 Act
or part of such a project; or

7.1.b

required to complete or enable the construction, use or operation of any part
of the development authorised by this Order,

then the carrying out, use or operation of such development under the terms of
the planning permission does not constitute a breach of the terms of this
Order.

7.2

Anything done by the undertaker in accordance with the terms of this Order
does not constitute a breach of any planning permission that is issued
pursuant to the 1990 Act.

#### Limits of deviation

8

8.1

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker may, so far as the
undertaker considers it necessary or convenient—

8.1.a

deviate laterally from the lines or situations of the authorised development
shown on the works plans to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on
those plans;

8.1.b

deviate laterally from the routes shown on the streets, rights of way and
access plans to the extent of the limits of deviation shown on those plans;
and

8.1.c

deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised development shown on the
engineering section drawings, to a maximum of 1 metre upwards or 1 metre
downwards.

8.2

The maximum limits of deviation set out in paragraph  (1)  do not apply where
it is demonstrated by the undertaker to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
and the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant planning
authority and, in respect of the authorised development comprising highways
other than a special road or a trunk road, the relevant local highway
authority, certifies accordingly that a deviation in excess of these limits
would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects from those reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to article 10 (consent to transfer benefit of Order) and paragraph
(2), the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have
effect solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

9.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted by
this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land, statutory
undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

10

10.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3),  the undertaker may—

10.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee;

10.1.b

grant to another person (“the grantee”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the grantee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

10.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph (1) references
in this Order to the undertaker, include references to the transferee or the
grantee.

10.3

The consent of the Secretary of State is required for a transfer or a grant
under this article, except where the transfer or grant is made to—

10.3.a

National Grid Gas Plc (company number 2006000), whose registered office is at
1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH for the purposes of undertaking Work No. 41;

10.3.b

Cadent Gas Limited (company number 10080864), whose registered office is at
Cadent, Pilot Way, Anstey, Coventry CV7 9JU for the purposes of undertaking
Work No. 51;

10.3.c

Exolum Pipeline System Ltd (company number 09497223), whose registered office
is at 1st Floor 55 King William Street, London EC4R 9AD for the purposes of
undertaking Work No. 38;

10.3.d

AWG Group Limited (company number 02366618), whose registered office is at
Lancaster House Lancaster Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon,
Cambridgeshire, PE29 6XU for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 19, 28, 44,
60, 61a, 61b, 62 and 66;

10.3.e

South Staffordshire Water PLC (company number 02662742), whose registered
office is at Green Lane, Walsall, West Midlands, WS2 7PD for the purposes of
undertaking Work Nos. 100, 103 and 107;

10.3.f

UK Power Networks (Operations) Limited (company number 03870728), whose
registered office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge Road, London SE1
6NP for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 6, 8, 27, 32, 47, 49, 52, 56,
58, 63, 67, 69, 69A, 69B, 82, 99 and 110;

10.3.g

Openreach Limited (company number 10690039), whose registered office is at
Kelvin House, 123 Judd Street, London WC1H 9NP for the purposes of undertaking
Work Nos. 9, 20, 42, 65, 81, 90, 96, 97, 104 and 104a;

10.3.h

Virgin Media Limited (company number 02591237) whose registered office is at
500 Brook Drive, Reading RG2 6UU for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 42,
81, 97, 104 and 104b; and

10.3.i

Vodafone Limited (company number 01471587), whose registered office is at
Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire RG14 2FN for the purposes
of undertaking Work No. 42, 81, 97 and 104.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

11

11.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

11.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

11.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the relevant local highway
authority, might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by
section 64  (dual carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184
(vehicle crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

11.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph (1),
to be construed as references to the undertaker.

11.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers of this Order—

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works); section
56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus); section 58
(restrictions following substantial road works); section 58A  (restriction on
works following substantial street works); section 73A  (power to require
undertaker to re-surface street); section 73B  (power to specify timing etc.
of re-surfacing); section 73C  (materials, workmanship and standard of re-
surfacing); section 78A  (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by
undertaker); and Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial
street works).

11.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any restriction on the use, alteration or diversion of a street of
a temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 16
(temporary alteration,  diversion,   prohibition and restriction of use of
streets) whether or not the restriction on the use, alteration or diversion
constitutes street works within the meaning of that Act.

11.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (4) are—

section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);
section 57  (notice of emergency works); section 59  (general duty of street
authority to co-ordinate works); section 60 (general duty of undertakers to
co-operate); section 68 (facilities to be afforded to street authority);
section 69 (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street); section 75
(inspection fees); section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic
regulation); and section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route),

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

11.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a restriction of use, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in
a case of emergency.

11.7

Nothing in article 12 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

11.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act;

11.7.b

means the undertaker is by reason of any duty under that article to maintain a
street to be taken to be the street authority in relation to that street for
the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

11.7.c

has effect in relation to street works as respects which the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

12

12.1

Subject to paragraphs (9) to (13), any highway (other than a special road or a
trunk road) to be constructed under this Order must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the relevant local highway authority.

12.2

The reasonable satisfaction of the relevant local highway authority under
paragraph (1) is to be signified by the issue by the local highway authority
of a certificate to that effect.

12.3

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant local highway authority,
the highway within the boundary specified in the certificate issued under
paragraph (2) (including any culverts or other structures laid under it) must
be maintained by and at the expense of the relevant local highway authority
from the date of issue of the certificate.

12.4

Subject to paragraphs (9) to (13), where a highway (other than a special road
or a trunk road) is altered or diverted under this Order, the altered or
diverted part of the highway must be completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the relevant local highway authority.

12.5

The reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority under paragraph (4)
is to be signified by the issue by the local highway authority of a
certificate to that effect.

12.6

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant local highway authority,
that part of the highway within the boundary specified in the certificate
issued under paragraph (5)   (including any culverts or other structures laid
under it) must be maintained by and at the expense of the relevant local
highway authority from date of issue of the certificate.

12.7

Where a highway is de-trunked under this Order—

12.7.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

12.7.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to or in connection with that de-trunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the relevant local highway authority, be maintained by
and at the expense of the relevant local highway authority from the date of
de-trunking.

12.8

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a special road or a trunk road) over a special road or trunk road, the
highway surface (being those elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be
maintained by and at the expense of the relevant local highway authority and
the remainder of the bridge, including the waterproofing membrane and any
culverts or other structures laid under it, must be maintained by and at the
expense of the undertaker.

12.9

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a special road
or a trunk road, the highway surface (being those elements over the
waterproofing membrane) and the remainder of the bridge must be maintained by
and at the expense of the undertaker.

12.10

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a private right
of way over a special road or trunk road, the bridge must be maintained by and
at the expense of the undertaker.

12.11

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a public right
of way, the surface of the bridge (being those elements over the waterproofing
membrane) must be maintained by and at the expense of the relevant local
highway authority and the structure of the bridge must be maintained by and at
the expense of the undertaker.

12.12

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a shared public
right of way and private access track over a special road or trunk road, the
bridge must be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker.

12.13

Where a street which is not and is not intended to be a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority and unless otherwise agreed in writing with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period
of 12 months from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

12.14

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

12.15

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (14), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

12.15.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

12.15.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

12.15.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

12.15.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

12.15.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and the competent
person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

13

13.1

On the date on which each of the roads described in Part 1 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 (classification of roads, etc.) are completed and open for traffic,
it is to become a trunk road as if it had become so by virtue of an order
under section 10(2)  (general provision as to trunk roads) of the 1980 Act
specifying that date as the date on which they were to become trunk roads.

13.2

On the date on which each of the roads described in Part 2 (classified roads)
of Schedule 3 are completed and open for traffic, it is to become a classified
road for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to highways
classified as classified roads as if such classification had been made under
section 12(3) (general provision as to principal and classified roads) of the
1980 Act.

13.3

On the date on which each of the roads described in Part 3 (unclassified
roads) of Schedule 3 are completed and open for traffic, it is to become an
unclassified road for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers
to unclassified roads.

13.4

On and after the date on which each of the roads specified in Part 4 (speed
limits) of Schedule 3 are open for traffic, no person is to drive any motor
vehicle at a speed exceeding the limit in miles per hour specified in column
(3) of that Part along any lengths of that road identified in the
corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.5

Subject to article 19 (clearways, prohibitions and restrictions), on and after
a date determined by the undertaker, the restrictions specified in column (3)
of Part 5 (traffic regulation measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of
Schedule 3 are to apply to the lengths of road identified in the corresponding
row of column (2) of that Part.

13.6

On a date to be determined by the undertaker, the orders specified in column
(3) of Part 6 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation
orders) of Schedule 3 are to be varied or revoked as specified in the
corresponding row of column (4) of that Part in respect of the lengths of
roads specified in the corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

13.7

Unless otherwise agreed in writing with the relevant local highway authority,
the footpaths, cycle tracks, footways, bridlepaths and bridleways set out in
Part 7 (footpaths, cycle tracks, footways, bridlepaths and bridleways) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the streets, rights of way and access plans are,
subject to article 9 (limits of deviation), to be constructed by the
undertaker in the specified locations and open for use on and after the date
on which the last of the roads described in Parts 1 to 3 of Schedule 3
(classification of roads etc.) is completed and open for traffic or in each
case on and after such earlier date as may be required pursuant to article
18(2)(a).

13.8

On a date or dates to be determined by the undertaker, the roads described in
Part 8 (roads to be de-trunked) of Schedule 3 are to cease to be trunk roads
as if they had ceased to be trunk roads by virtue of an order made under
section 10(2) of the 1980 Act specifying that date or date as the date or
dates on which they were to cease to be trunk roads.

13.9

The undertaker may only make a determination for the purposes of paragraph (8)
with the consent of the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
relevant local highway authority as to the date and as to whether the highway
to be de-trunked is of a reasonably satisfactory standard for use as a local
highway.

13.10

The application of paragraphs (1) to (9) may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

13.11

Subject to paragraph (12) the undertaker may vary the classification of the
roads, or any part of those roads, provided for in paragraphs (1), (2) and (3)
and such variation may provide for any trunk road comprised in the authorised
development and referred to in paragraph (1) to be classified as a special
road.

13.12

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (11) unless
the undertaker has—

13.12.a

given not less than four weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s
intention to do so to the chief officer of police and to the relevant local
highway authority in whose area the road is situated; and

13.12.b

published a notice, declaring the date on which that road or part of it is to
be classified, not less than seven days before that date, in at least one
local newspaper circulating in the area in which the road or, as the case may
be, the relevant part of it is situated and in the London Gazette.

13.13

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (11) the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

13.14

Any roads classified as a special road in accordance with paragraph (11) are,
on and from the date on which they are so classified, to be—

13.14.a

classified as special roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument
which refers to highways classified as special roads; and

13.14.b

provided for the use of traffic of Classes I and II  of the classes of traffic
set out in Schedule 4 (classes of traffic for purposes of special roads) to
the 1980 Act.

13.15

The restrictions provided for in paragraph (5) do not apply to an authorised
vehicle where the vehicle is excepted from the restrictions in column (3) of
Part 5 of Schedule 3.

13.16

In paragraph  (15) , “ authorised vehicle ” means a vehicle specified by the
undertaker from time to time.

13.17

No later than the expiry of the period of 12 weeks beginning with the day on
which the relevant local highway authority becomes responsible for the
maintenance of a footpath, cycle track, footway, bridlepath or bridleway
referred to in paragraph (7), the undertaker must provide the relevant local
highway authority with material specifying the location of the completed
footpath, cycle track, footway, bridlepath or bridleway.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing
and maintaining the authorised development, alter the layout of any street
within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a junction with
such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of this paragraph, the
undertaker may—

14.1.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, bridlepath, cycle track or verge within the
street;

14.1.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footway, bridlepath,
cycle track or verge;

14.1.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

14.1.d

make and maintain passing places.

14.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

14.3

The powers conferred by paragraph (1)—

14.3.a

are exercisable on the giving of not less than 42 days’ notice to the street
authority; and

14.3.b

are not to be exercised without the consent of the street authority where that
authority is a public authority.

14.4

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (3) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the later
of—

14.4.a

the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the
application was made; or

14.4.b

if further information is reasonably requested by the street authority during
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
further information was provided to the street authority,

it is deemed to have granted consent.

14.5

Paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are carried out.

#### Street works

15

15.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

15.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

15.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street or carry out works to strengthen or repair the
carriageway;

15.1.c

remove or use all earth and materials in or under the street;

15.1.d

place and keep apparatus in or under the street;

15.1.e

maintain, renew or alter apparatus in the street or change its position;

15.1.f

demolish, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture;

15.1.g

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines;

15.1.h

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

15.1.i

carry out re-lining and placement of road markings;

15.1.j

remove and install temporary and permanent signage; and

15.1.k

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
paragraphs (a) to  (j) .

15.2

The authority given by paragraph (1) is a statutory right for the purposes of
sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1) (prohibition
of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

#### Temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets

16

16.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily alter, divert, prohibit or restrict the use of
any street and may for any reasonable time—

16.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

16.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

16.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), the undertaker may use any
street where the use has been temporarily prohibited or restricted under the
powers conferred by this article, and within the Order limits, as a temporary
working site.

16.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

16.4

The undertaker must not temporarily alter, divert, prohibit or restrict the
use of any street for which it is not the street authority without the consent
of the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

16.5

Any person who suffers loss by the temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition or restriction of any private right of way under this article is
entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

16.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the later
of—

16.6.a

the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the
application was made; or

16.6.b

if further information is reasonably requested by the street authority during
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the date on which the
further information was provided to the street authority,

it is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

17

17.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the construction of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access shown on the streets, rights of way and
access plans and specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts 1, 2, 3 and 4 of
Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private means of access and
provision of new highways and private means of access) to the extent specified
and described in column (3) of those Parts of that Schedule.

17.2

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
2 and 3 of Schedule 4 (being a street or private means of access to be stopped
up for which a substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly stopped
up under this article unless—

17.2.a

the new street or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (4) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

17.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the street or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new street or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a).

17.3

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Parts
1 and 4 of Schedule 4 (being a street or private means of access to be stopped
up for which no substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly
stopped up under this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4)
is satisfied in relation to all the land which abuts on either side of the
street or private means of access to be stopped up.

17.4

The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that—

17.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land; or

17.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned; or

17.4.c

there is a reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

17.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

17.5

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

17.5.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

17.5.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

17.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

17.7

This article is subject to article 40 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

18

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways, prohibitions and restrictions

19

19.1

On and after such day as the undertaker may determine, except as provided in
paragraph (2), no person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part
of the lengths of road described in column (2) of Part 5 (traffic regulation
measures (clearways and prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads,
etc.) where it is identified in the corresponding row of column (3) of that
Part that such lengths of road are to become a clearway, except upon the
direction of, or with the permission of, a uniformed constable or uniformed
traffic officer.

19.2

Nothing in paragraph (1) applies—

19.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

19.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

19.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

19.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 3A (the electronic
communications code) to the Communications Act 2003 ; or

19.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

19.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

19.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

19.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

19.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

19.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Service Act 2000 ; or

19.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

19.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

19.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

19.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

19.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph (1) for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

19.4

Paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

19.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the Traffic Management Act 2004
.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

20

20.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

20.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or use of a public sewer
or drain by the undertaker under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers) of
the Water Industry Act 1991 .

20.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

20.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

20.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

20.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

20.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

20.6

Subject to article 3(2)(a) (disapplication of legislative provisions), nothing
in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit under
regulation 12(1)(b) (requirement for an environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

20.7

In this article—

20.7.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority or a sewerage undertaker; and

20.7.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

20.8

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

#### Protective work to buildings

21

21.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

21.2

Protective works may be carried out—

21.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

21.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

21.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may enter and survey any building falling within
paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage, and place on, leave on and
remove from the land any apparatus and equipment for use in connection with
the survey.

21.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works under this article to a
building the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

21.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

21.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it).

21.5

Before exercising—

21.5.a

a right under paragraph (1) to carry out protective works to a building;

21.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

21.5.c

a right under paragraph (4)(a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

21.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

21.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article 50 (arbitration).

21.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

21.8

Where—

21.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

21.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

21.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

21.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the entry onto land under this article to the same extent as it
applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue of
section 125  (compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act.

21.11

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of
questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

21.12

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means—

21.12.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

21.12.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

22

22.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

22.1.a

survey or investigate the land (including any watercourses, groundwater,
static water bodies or vegetation on the land);

22.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make any excavations or
trial holes and boreholes and other investigations in such positions on the
land as the undertaker thinks fit to investigate the nature of the surface
layer, subsoil and groundwater and remove soil and water samples and discharge
water from sampling operations on to the land;

22.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land, including making excavations or
trial holes on the land for such purposes; and

22.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making trial holes and
boreholes.

22.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

22.3

The notice required under paragraph (2) must indicate the nature of the survey
or investigation that the undertaker intends to carry out.

22.4

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

22.4.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

22.4.b

may take into the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes and boreholes.

22.5

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

22.5.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority; or

22.5.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

22.6

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

22.7

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act
applies to the temporary use of land pursuant to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

22.8

If either the highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving the application for consent—

22.8.a

under paragraph (5)(a) in the case of the highway authority; or

22.8.b

under paragraph (5)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

23

23.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

23.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION OF LAND

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

24

24.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

24.2

This article is   subject to paragraph (3) of article 27   (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and article 53
(crown rights).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

25

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the following modifications—

25.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

25.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

25.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

26

26.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

26.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act; and

26.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 34 (application of the 1981 Act).

26.2

The authority conferred by article 37 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

27

27.1

Subject to the following paragraphs of this article, the undertaker may
acquire such rights over the Order land, or impose restrictive covenants
affecting the Order land, including rights and restrictive covenants for the
benefit of a statutory undertaker or any other person, as may be required for
any purpose for which that land may be acquired under article 24 (compulsory
acquisition of land), by creating them as well as acquiring rights already in
existence.

27.2

The power to impose restrictive covenants under paragraph (1) is exercisable
only in respect of plots specified in column (1) of Schedule 5.

27.3

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights and restrictive covenants etc. may be acquired) the
undertaker’s powers of compulsory acquisition under paragraph (1) are limited
to the acquisition of such wayleaves, easements, new rights in the land or the
imposition of restrictive covenants, as may be required for the purposes
specified in relation to that land in column (2) of that Schedule and relating
to that part of the authorised development specified in column (3) of that
Schedule.

27.4

The power under paragraph (1) to acquire the rights and to impose the
restrictive covenants described in Schedule 5 for the benefit of statutory
undertakers or for the benefit of any other person—

27.4.a

does not preclude the acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of
such other restrictive covenants in respect of the same land in accordance
with Schedule 5 as may be required for the benefit of any other statutory
undertaker or any other person; and

27.4.b

must not be exercised by the undertaker in a way that precludes the
acquisition of such other rights and the imposition of such other restrictive
covenants in respect of the same land in accordance with Schedule 5 as are
required for the benefit of any other statutory undertaker or any other
person.

27.5

Subject to section 8  (other provisions as to divided land) of, and Schedule
2A  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat), to the
1965 Act, as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of Schedule 6 (modification of
compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation of new rights),
where the undertaker acquires a right over land or the benefit of a
restrictive covenant affecting land under paragraph (1) or (2), the undertaker
is not required to acquire a greater interest in that land.

27.6

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Public rights of way

28

28.1

The public rights of way identified in columns (1) to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of
Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private means of access and
provision of new highways and private means of access) and shown on the
streets, rights of way and access plans are to be extinguished on the date of
the expiry of the notice given under paragraph (2).

28.2

The undertaker must erect a site notice at each end of the rights of way to be
extinguished specifying a date for its extinguishment, which date must be—

28.2.a

in the case of the public rights of way identified in Part 2 of Schedule 4, no
sooner than the date on which the relevant alternative section of public
rights of way identified in column (4) of Part 2 of Schedule 4 is open for use
by the public: or

28.2.b

in any other case, no sooner than 28 days after the date on which the site
notices are erected.

#### Private rights over land

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished from
whichever is the earlier of—

29.1.a

the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or
by agreement; or

29.1.b

the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)  (power of
entry) of the 1965 Act.

29.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or burden of
the restrictive covenant—

29.2.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the
restrictive covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement;
or

29.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) (power
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

29.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker that are within the Order limits are extinguished when any
material operation comprised in the authorised development interferes with or
breaches those rights.

29.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

29.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation)
of the 1961 Act.

29.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 39 (statutory undertakers) applies.

29.7

Paragraphs (1) to (4) have effect subject to—

29.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

29.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the rights
or the imposition of restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

29.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

29.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

29.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

29.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

29.8

If any such agreement referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

29.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

29.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

29.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Power to override easements and other rights

30

30.1

Any authorised activity which takes place on land within the Order limits
(whether the activity is undertaken by the undertaker or by any person
deriving title from the undertaker or by any contractors, servants or agents
of the undertaker) is authorised by this Order if it is done in accordance
with the terms of this Order, notwithstanding that it involves—

30.1.a

an interference with an interest or right to which this article applies; or

30.1.b

a breach of a restriction as to the user of land arising by virtue of a
contract.

30.2

The interests and rights to which this article applies include any easement,
liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and adversely affecting
other land, including any natural right to support and including restrictions
as to the user of land arising by the virtue of a contract.

30.3

Where an interest, right or restriction is overridden by paragraph (1),
compensation—

30.3.a

is payable under section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) or
section 10  (further provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of
the 1965 Act; and

30.3.b

is to be assessed in the same manner and subject to the same rules as in the
case of other compensation under those sections where—

30.3.b.i

the compensation is to be estimated in connection with a purchase under that
Act; or

30.3.b.ii

the injury arises from the execution of works on or use of land acquired under
that Act.

30.4

Where a person deriving title under the undertaker by whom the land in
question was acquired—

30.4.a

is liable to pay compensation by virtue of paragraph (3); and

30.4.b

fails to discharge that liability, the liability is enforceable against the
undertaker.

30.5

Nothing in this article is to be construed as authorising any act or omission
on the part of any person which is actionable at the suit of any person on any
grounds other than such an interference or breach as is mentioned in paragraph
(1) of this article.

30.6

In this article “ authorised activity ” means the exercise of the powers under
the following provisions, in the case where the land in respect of which the
power is to be exercised has not been vested in or acquired by the undertaker—

30.6.a

article 22 (authority to survey and investigate the land);

30.6.b

article 42 (felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows).

#### Disregard of certain interests and improvements

31

31.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

31.1.a

any interest in land; or

31.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

31.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works carried out or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set-off for enhancement in value of retained land

32

32.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

32.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

32.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

32.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

32.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs (1) and (2) as if this Order
were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

33

33.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125  (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows.

33.2

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order
2022” .

33.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

33.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

33.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

33.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “ article 26 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsorily)   of the A428 Black Cat to Caxton
Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022” .

33.5

In Schedule 2A  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

33.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

33.5.a.2

But see article 35(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A428
Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule

; and

33.5.b

after paragraph 29, end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

33.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under articles 22 (protective works to buildings), 40
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 41
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the A428
Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022.

.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

34

34.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

34.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

34.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection 2 substitute—

34.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

.

34.4

In section 5  (earliest date for execution of declaration), in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

34.5

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

34.6

In section 5B(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 118 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent) of the Planning Act 2008, the five year period
mentioned in article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land
compulsorily) of the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order
2022” .

34.7

In section (6)  (notices after execution of declaration), in subsection
(1)(b), for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to, the Acquisition
of Land Act 1981” substitute  “section 134 (notice of authorisation of
compulsory acquisition) of the Planning Act 2008” .

34.8

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

34.9

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) for paragraph 1(2) substitute—

34.9.2

But see article 35(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A428
Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

.

34.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125  (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 33
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

35

35.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1) of
article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any purpose
for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of acquiring
the whole of the land.

35.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph (1), the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

35.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph (1) in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

35.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 33 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

35.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the 1981 Act; and

35.3.c

section 153(4A)  (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the 1990 Act.

35.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

36

36.1

Provided that it has given the street authority for the street in question at
least 28 days’ prior notice (or such shorter period as the street authority
may agree), the undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil
of, or airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required
for the purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or
airspace for those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised
development.

36.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph (1) in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

36.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

36.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

36.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

36.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph (1) is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the
1961 Act.

36.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

37

37.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 26 (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

37.1.a

enter on and take possession of—

37.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule; and

37.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act ;

37.1.b

remove any electric line, electrical plant, structures, apparatus, buildings
and vegetation from that land;

37.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings or structures on that land; and

37.1.d

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land as are
mentioned in column (3) of Schedule 7, or any other mitigation works in
connection with the authorised development; and

37.1.e

carry out any soil reprofiling work.

37.2

Not less than 28 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(ii).

37.3

The undertaker may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

37.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i), after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 7; or

37.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii), after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

37.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

37.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

37.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

37.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

37.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development;

37.4.e

restore the land on which any soil reprofiling work has occurred; or

37.4.f

remove any temporary works where this has been agreed with the owners of the
land.

37.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

37.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

37.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph (4) does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

37.8

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

37.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

37.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125  (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

37.11

Paragraph (1)(a)(ii) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land) or article 27 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

38

38.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

38.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

38.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

38.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

38.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

38.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

38.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

38.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land explaining the purpose for which entry
is taken.

38.4

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph (3) where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of—

38.4.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

38.4.b

the public; or

38.4.c

the surrounding environment,

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1) subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practical in the
circumstances.

38.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

38.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

38.7

Any dispute as to the removal of temporary works and restoration of land under
paragraph (6) does not prevent the undertaker giving up possession of the
land.

38.8

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

38.9

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (8),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

38.10

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (8).

38.11

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

38.12

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

38.13

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development, means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

39

39.1

Subject to the provisions of   article 27(3)   (compulsory acquisition of
rights and imposition of restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective
provisions) and paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

39.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

39.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

39.2

Paragraph (1)(b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

39.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

39.2.b

article 40 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

40

40.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

40.2

Where a street is stopped up under article 17 any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

40.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

40.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

40.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

40.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

40.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

40.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

40.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

40.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

40.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

40.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

40.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

40.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

40.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

40.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

40.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

40.8

In this article—

      “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;
“ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and           “ statutory utility ” means a statutory
undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications
provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 2003 .

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

41

41.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 39 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

41.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer but
where such a sewer is removed under   article 38 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) , any person who is—

41.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

41.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

41.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 40
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) or Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

41.4

In this paragraph—

“ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section 151(1)
(interpretation of Chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003; and “ public
utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage undertaker.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

42

42.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree (other than a tree subject to a tree
preservation order) or shrub, or cut back its roots, within or overhanging
land within the Order limits if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to
do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

42.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

42.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

42.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1), the undertaker
must-—

42.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub;

42.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity; and

42.2.c

take steps to avoid a breach of the provisions of the Wildlife and Countryside
Act 1981  and the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017 .

42.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

42.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2)—

42.4.a

remove any hedgerow described in Part 1 (removal of hedgerows) of Schedule 8
(hedgerows and trees); and

42.4.b

subject to consultation with the relevant planning authority remove any
hedgerow within the Order limits that may be identified and that is not
otherwise described in Part 1 of Schedule 8.

42.5

In this article “ hedgerow ” has the same meaning as in the Hedgerows
Regulations 1997  and includes important hedgerows.

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

43

43.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

43.1.a

fell or lop any tree described in Part 2 (trees subject to tree preservation
orders) of Schedule 8, cut back its roots or undertake such other works
described in column (2) of that Schedule relating to the relevant part of the
authorised development described in column (3) of that Schedule;

43.1.b

fell or lop, or cut back the roots of any other tree within or overhanging
land within the Order limits and which is subject to a tree preservation order
which was made after 5th February 2018.

43.2

The undertaker may only exercise the powers of paragraph (1) if the undertaker
reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree—

43.2.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

43.2.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

43.3

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph (1)—

43.3.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;

43.3.b

the duty contained in section 206(1) (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act is
not to apply although where possible the undertaker must seek to replace any
trees which are removed; and

43.3.c

the undertaker must consult the relevant planning authority prior to that
activity taking place.

43.4

The authority given in paragraph (1) constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

43.5

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (3),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed compensation) of
the 1961 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

44

44.1

This article applies to—

44.1.a

any agreement for lease to any person the whole or any part of the authorised
development or the right to operate the same; and

44.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

44.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

44.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

44.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

44.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

44.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

45

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3) (cases in which land is
to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

46

46.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraph (g) of section 79(1)
(noise emitted from premises so as to be prejudicial to health or a nuisance)
of that Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section
82(2)  of that Act if—

46.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

46.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
; or

46.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

46.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

46.2

Section 61(9) (consent for work on construction site to include statement that
it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under section 82 of
the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974
does not apply where the consent relates to the use of premises by the
undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the construction or
maintenance of the authorised development.

#### Protective provisions

47

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

48

48.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification as
true copies of those plans and documents.

48.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make this Order,
that plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s
satisfaction is the version of the plan or document required to be certified
under paragraph (1).

48.3

A plan or document so certified is admissible in any proceedings as evidence
of the contents of the plan or document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

49

49.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

49.1.a

by post;

49.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

49.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

49.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

49.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

49.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

49.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

49.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

49.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

49.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

49.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

49.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

49.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

49.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

49.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

49.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

49.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

49.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

49.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

49.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

49.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

49.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

50

50.1

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

50.2

Any matter for which the consent or approval of Secretary of State is required
under any provision of this Order is not subject to arbitration.

#### Traffic regulation

51

51.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

51.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

51.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

51.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

51.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

51.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

51.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicles, or vehicles of any class, or pedestrians access
to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

51.3

The power conferred by paragraph (2) may be exercised at any time prior to the
expiry of 12 months from the date the last part of the authorised development
is first open for public use but subject to paragraph (7) any prohibition,
restriction or other provision made under paragraph (2) may have effect both
before and after the expiry of that period.

51.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (5).

51.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (2) unless
the undertaker has—

51.5.a

given not less than—

51.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

51.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

51.5.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s
intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of its receipt
of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(ii).

51.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph (2)—

51.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

51.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

51.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces) of the 1984
Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

51.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act
2004 .

51.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (2) within a period of 24 months
from the date on which the last part of the authorised development is first
open for public use.

51.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (2) the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

51.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

51.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

51.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (2) the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Removal of human remains

52

52.1

In this article, “ the specified land ” means any land within the Order
limits.

52.2

Before the undertaker carries out any development or works which will or may
disturb any human remains in the specified land it must remove those human
remains from the specified land, or cause them to be removed, in accordance
with the following provisions of this article.

52.3

Subject to paragraph (12), before any such remains are removed the undertaker
must give notice of the intended removal describing the specified land and
stating the general effect of the following provisions of this article by—

52.3.a

publishing a notice for two successive weeks in a newspaper circulating in the
area of the authorised development; and

52.3.b

displaying a notice in a conspicuous place on or near to the specified land.

52.4

As soon as reasonably practicable after the first publication of a notice
under paragraph (3) the undertaker must send a copy of the notice to the
relevant planning authority.

52.5

At any time within 56 days after the first publication of a notice under
paragraph (3), any person who is a personal representative or relative of any
deceased person whose remains are interred in the specified land may give
notice in writing to the undertaker of that person’s intention to undertake
the removal of the remains.

52.6

Where a person has given notice under paragraph (5), and the remains in
question can be identified, that person may cause such remains to be—

52.6.a

removed and re-interred in any burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place; or

52.6.b

removed to, and cremated in, any crematorium,

and that person is to, as soon as reasonably practicable after such re-
interment or cremation, provide to the undertaker a certificate for the
purpose of enabling compliance with paragraph (11).

52.7

If the undertaker is not satisfied that any person giving notice under
paragraph (5) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims
to be, or that the remains in question can be identified, the question must be
determined on the application of either party in a summary manner by the
county court, and the court may make an order specifying who must remove the
remains and as to the payment of the costs of the application.

52.8

The undertaker must pay the reasonable expenses of removing and re-interring
or cremating the remains of any deceased person under this article.

52.9

If—

52.9.a

within the period of 56 days referred to in paragraph (5) no notice under that
paragraph has been given to the undertaker in respect of any remains in the
specified land; or

52.9.b

such notice is given and no application is made under paragraph (7) within 56
days after the giving of the notice but the person who gave the notice fails
to remove the remains within a further period of 56 days; or

52.9.c

within 56 days after any order is made by the county court under paragraph (7)
any person, other than the undertaker, specified in the order fails to remove
the remains; or

52.9.d

it is determined that the remains to which any such notice relates cannot be
identified,

subject to paragraph (10) the undertaker must remove the remains and cause
them to be reinterred in such burial ground or cemetery in which burials may
legally take place as the undertaker thinks suitable for the purpose; and, so
far as possible, remains from individual graves must be reinterred in
individual containers which are to be identifiable by a record prepared with
reference to the original position of burial of the remains that they contain.

52.10

If the undertaker is satisfied that any person giving notice under paragraph
(5) is the personal representative or relative as that person claims to be and
that the remains in question can be identified, but that person does not
remove the remains, the undertaker must comply with any reasonable request
that person may make in relation to the removal and re-interment or cremation
of the remains.

52.11

On the re-interment or cremation of any remains under this article—

52.11.a

a certificate of re-interment or cremation is to be sent to the Registrar
General by the undertaker giving the date of re-interment or cremation and
identifying the place from which the remains were removed and the place in
which they were re-interred or cremated; and

52.11.b

a copy of the certificate of re-interment or cremation and the record
mentioned in paragraph (9) must be sent by the undertaker to the relevant
planning authority.

52.12

No notice is required under paragraph (3) before the removal of any human
remains where the undertaker is satisfied—

52.12.a

that the remains were interred more than 100 years ago; and

52.12.b

that no relative or personal representative of the deceased is likely to
object to the remains being removed in accordance with this article.

52.13

In the case of remains in relation to which paragraph (12) applies, the
undertaker—

52.13.a

may remove the remains;

52.13.b

must apply for direction from the Secretary of State under paragraph (14) as
to their subsequent treatment; and

52.13.c

must deal with the remains in such manner, and subject to such conditions, as
the Secretary of State directs.

52.14

The removal of the remains of any deceased person under this article must be
carried out in accordance with any directions which may be given by the
Secretary of State.

52.15

Any jurisdiction or function conferred on the county court by this article may
be exercised by the district judge of the court.

52.16

Section 25 (offence of removal of body from burial ground) of the Burial Act
1857  does not apply to a removal carried out in accordance with this article.

52.17

Section 239 (use and development of burial grounds) of the 1990 Act applies—

52.17.a

in relation to land, other than a right over land, acquired for the purposes
of the authorised development (whether or not by agreement), so as to permit
use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions of this Order; and

52.17.b

in relation to a right over land so acquired (whether or not by agreement), or
the temporary use of land pursuant to articles 40 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) or 41 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development), so as to permit the exercise of that
right or the temporary use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions
of this Order,

and in section 240(1) (provisions supplemental to sections 238 and 239) of the
1990 Act reference to “ regulations made for the purposes of sections 238(3)
and (4) and 239(2) ” means, so far as applicable to land or a right over land
acquired under this Order, paragraphs (2) to (15) of this article and in
section 240(3) of the 1990 Act reference to a “ statutory undertaker ”
includes the undertaker and reference to “ any other enactment ” includes this
Order.

52.18

The Town and Country Planning (Churches, Places of Religious Worship and
Burial Grounds) Regulations 1950  do not apply to the authorised development.

#### Crown rights

53

53.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to take, use, enter upon or in any manner
interfere with any land or rights of any description—

53.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of the Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

53.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of the
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

53.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

53.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order for
the compulsory purchase of any interest in any Crown land (as defined in the
2008 Act) for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of the Crown.

53.3

A consent under paragraph (1) may be given unconditionally or subject to terms
and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is sent
electronically.

#### Works in the River Great Ouse

54

54.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, during the construction of the
authorised development the public right of navigation over any part of the
River Great Ouse that is situated within the Order limits may be temporarily
suspended with the written approval of the Environment Agency, such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld.

54.2

The undertaker must apply to the Environment Agency for approval under
paragraph (1) for such suspension, except in the case of an emergency when the
undertaker must give such notice as is reasonably practicable.

54.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), an emergency means a situation that exists
that without the temporary suspension of navigation rights will present—

54.3.a

a risk to life or serious injury to one or more persons;

54.3.b

a substantial risk of significant damage to one or more vessels;

54.3.c

a risk of significant or structural damage to a bridge, sluice, sluice gate,
lock, flood defence structure, river bank, river control work or drainage
work; or

54.3.d

a risk of serious environmental harm,

and it would not be reasonable in the circumstances to require prior approval
under this article before suspending the public rights of navigation.

54.4

An application for approval under paragraph (2) must provide details of the
proposed suspension or periods of suspension, including particulars of—

54.4.a

the commencement date;

54.4.b

the duration; and

54.4.c

the affected area,

and must include an explanation of the need for the proposed suspension or
periods of suspension.

54.5

The Environment Agency may in relation to any application for approval made
under paragraph (2) impose reasonable conditions for any purpose described in
paragraph (3).

54.6

Conditions imposed under paragraph (5) may include conditions as to—

54.6.a

the limits of any area subject to a temporary suspension of the public right
of navigation;

54.6.b

the duration of any temporary suspension;

54.6.c

the means of marking or otherwise providing warning in the River Great Ouse of
any area affected by a temporary suspension of the public right of navigation;
and

54.6.d

the use by the undertaker of the area subject to any temporary suspension so
as not to interfere with any other part of the River Great Ouse or affect its
use.

54.7

Following an approval of any suspension given by the Environment Agency under
this article or determined in accordance with article 50 (arbitration), the
undertaker must:

54.7.a

publish a notice in one or more local newspapers circulating in the district
in which the River Great Ouse is situated;

54.7.b

publish such notice not less than one month before the powers are to be
exercised and state the extent to which, the period during and the purpose for
which the use or navigation of the River Great Ouse is to be prohibited,
restricted or regulated;

54.7.c

display a copy of such notice in one or more places on or adjacent to the
River Great Ouse in such places to bring its contents to the notice of persons
using or navigating the waterways.

54.8

Subject to paragraph (9), an application for approval under this article is
deemed to have been approved if it is neither given nor refused within 28
business days of the Environment Agency receiving the application under
paragraph (2).

54.9

An approval of the Environment Agency under this article is not deemed to have
been approved, if approval within the time limited by paragraph (8) has not
been given pending the outcome of any consultation on the approval in question
that the Environment Agency is obliged to carry out in the proper exercise of
its functions.

#### The Cadent Diversion Works

55

55.1

If the undertaker implements the advanced works permission and Cadent or the
undertaker undertakes the works described in Work No. 51 pursuant to planning
permission granted under Part 3 of the 1990 Act then the requirements
contained in Part 1 of Schedule 2 will not have effect in so far as they
relate to those works unless Cadent or the undertaker serve written notice on
the Secretary of State and the relevant planning authority confirming that it
will—

55.1.a

cease to rely on planning permission granted under Part 3 of the 1990 Act; and

55.1.b

carry out Work No. 51 under this Order (in accordance with the requirements
contained in Part 1 of Schedule 2).

55.2

Cadent or the undertaker must not carry out Work No. 51 under this Order
unless notice has been served under paragraph (1).

55.3

Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the undertaker may exercise any other powers
under this Order in respect of Work No. 51.

#### Use of private roads for construction

56

56.1

The undertaker may use any private road within the Order limits for the
passage of persons or vehicles (with or without materials, plant and
machinery) for the purposes of, or in connection with, the construction of the
authorised development.

56.2

The undertaker must compensate the person liable for the repair of a road to
which paragraph (1) applies for any loss or damage which that person may
suffer by reason of the exercise of the power conferred by paragraph (1).

56.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of such compensation, is to be determined as though it
were a dispute under Part 1 (determination of questions of disputed
compensation) of the 1961 Act.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport
Natasha Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department
for Transport

## SCHEDULES

Article 2

##### AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

  The authorised development is a nationally significant infrastructure
project as defined in sections 14 and 22 of the 2008 Act  and associated
development within the meaning of section 115(2) of the 2008 Act , comprising—

###### In the administrative area of Bedford Borough Council

  Work No. 1  – As shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works plans the construction
of the new dual carriageway (2140 metres in length) including tie in works,
the construction of the Black Cat junction western, central and eastern
bridges which form part of the Black Cat junction, retaining earth structures,
slip roads to and from the Black Cat junction, and associated demolition works
to the existing A421.

  Work No. 2  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans, a construction area
including borrow pit to the north of the existing A421.

  Work No. 3  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of the
realigned Roxton Road carriageway including the Roxton Road bridge, shared
private access tracks and footpath, and associated demolition works to the
existing Roxton Road bridge and existing Roxton Road.

  Work No. 4  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of the
realigned Bedford Road into the Black Cat junction circulatory (Work No. 13),
private access tracks, and associated demolition of the existing Bedford Road.

  Work No. 5  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin to the south of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 1).

  Work No. 6  – As shown on sheets 1 and 1A of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (680 metres in length), commencing south
west of the Black Cat junction and terminating to the north west of the Black
Cat junction circulatory (Work No. 13).

  Work No. 7  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of the
Kelpie Marina access road and bridleway, including—     a     the construction
of an access track, south of Bedford Road including the private field accesses
and a bridleway which extends southwards;         b     the construction of
the Kelpie Marina access track including bridge and retaining earth
structures, south of Rockham ditch.

  Work No. 8  – As shown on sheets 1 and 1A of the works plans the diversion
and undergrounding of an overhead electricity line (685 metres in length)
commencing at the A1 south of Rockham Ditch and terminating to the east of the
A1 north of Greenacres.

  Work No. 9  – As shown on sheets 1 and 1C of the works plans the diversion
of an underground communication cable (Openreach) (145 metres in length)
commencing to the east of the A1 north of Greenacres and terminating east of
the Kelpie Marina access road.

  Work No. 10  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of a
flood compensation area to the west of the A1 and south of Rockham Ditch.

  Work No. 11  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of a
flood compensation area to the west of the A1 and north of Rockham Ditch.

  Work No. 12  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin, north west of the Black Cat junction circulatory (Work No.
13).

  Work No. 13  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of
the Black Cat junction circulatory at existing grade, including the Black Cat
junction northern and southern bridges and associated demolition of the
existing Black Cat roundabout.

  Work No. 14  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin, north east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory (Work
No. 13).

  Work No. 15  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans the construction of a
private access track to Greenacres, south-east of the Black Cat junction
circulatory (Work No. 13), including the realigned section of the existing
access track to Greenacres and an access track over Rockham ditch.

  Work No. 16  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans restoration works at
the existing quarry, east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory (Work No.
13) including the removal of bunding east of the private access track.

  Work No. 17  – As shown on sheet 1 of the works plans a construction area to
the south east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory (Work No. 13).

  Work No. 18  – As shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans the
construction of the new Roxton Road Link (south), including the Roxton Road
roundabout and private accesses.

  Work No. 19  – As shown on sheets 1, 1B, 2 and 2B of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water pipeline (2010 metres in length) commencing
at the A1 east of School Lane and terminating at Chawston Lane.

  Work No. 20  – As shown on sheets 1, 1C, 2 and 2C of the works plans the
diversion of an underground communication cable (Openreach) (2690 metres in
length) commencing at School Lane and terminating at The Lane.

  Work No. 21  – As shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the works plans the
construction of the realigned A1 carriageway, including the slip roads to and
from the Black Cat junction circulatory (Work No. 13), retaining earth
structures and the extension of the existing culverts across Rockham Ditch and
South Brook, and associated demolition works to sections of the existing A1
and surrounding properties including the dismantling and removal of the listed
building known as “Brook Cottages”.

  Work No. 22  – As shown on sheets 1, 2 and 3 of the works plans the
construction of the new A1 Services link road, private accesses and a private
access track extending to the new River Great Ouse Viaduct (Work No. 39).

  Work No. 23  – As shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works plans a construction
area including borrow pit north east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory
(Work No. 13).

  Work No. 24  – As shown on sheets 1 and 3 of the works plans the
construction of flood compensation areas, south and east of the Black Cat
junction circulatory (Work No. 13).

  Work No. 25  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans the construction of a
culvert beneath the Roxton Road Link (south) (Work No. 18).

  Work No. 26  – As shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans the construction of
flood compensation areas, east and west of Roxton Road Link (south) (Work No.
18).

  Work No. 27  – As shown on sheets 2 and 2A of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (330 metres in length) commencing to the
west of the Roxton Road Link (south) (Work No. 18), and terminating to the
east of the Old Great North Road.

  Work No. 28  – As shown on sheets 2 and 2B of the works plans the diversion
of an underground water pipeline (650 metres in length) commencing at Chawston
Lane and terminating at The Lane.

  Work No. 29  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans the construction of
the Roxton Road Link (north), the Nagshead Lane Link and private access
tracks.

  Work No. 30  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin located to the east of the new Roxton Road Link (north)
(Work No.29) and west of the Nagshead Lane Link (Work No. 29).

  Work No. 31  – As shown on sheets 2 and 2B of the works plans the diversion
of a private underground water pipeline (360 metres in length), commencing at
Old Great North Road and terminating to the west of the Roxton Road Link
(north) (Work No. 29).

  Work No. 32  – As shown on sheets 2 and 2A of the works plans the diversion
and undergrounding of an overhead electricity line (355 metres in length),
commencing at the Nagshead Lane Link (Work No. 29) and terminating to the
south of The Lane.

  Work No. 33  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin located to the east of the Roxton Road link (north) (Work
No. 29).

  Work No. 34  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans construction of a
flood compensation area to the east of the Roxton Road Link (north) (Work No.
29).

  Work No. 35  – As shown on Sheet 2 of the works plans construction of a
flood compensation area to the west of the Roxton Road Link (north) (Work No.
29).

  Work No. 36  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans the realignment of The
Lane carriageway, including a new access road, private means of access and
associated demolition work to The Lane as existing.

  Work No. 37  – As shown on sheet 2 of the works plans improvements to Old
Great North Road including modification of the existing associated junctions.

  Work No. 38  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground oil pipeline (270 metres in length) commencing south of the River
Great Ouse Viaduct (Work No. 39) and terminating north of the River Great Ouse
Viaduct.

###### In the administrative areas of Bedford Borough Council and Central Bedfordshire Council

  Work No. 39  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the construction of
the River Great Ouse Viaduct.

###### In the administrative area of Central Bedfordshire Council

  Work No. 40  – As shown on sheets 3 and 4 of the works plans the
construction of the new dual carriageway (3100 metres in length) including
lay-bys, culverts and a private access track.

  Work No. 41  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground gas pipeline (320 metres in length), commencing north of the new
dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual carriage
way, west of the realigned Barford Road (Work No. 43).

  Work No. 42  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of
underground communication cables (Openreach, Vodafone and Virgin Media) (870
metres in length), commencing south of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 40)
across the new Barford Road bridge (Work No. 43) and terminating north of the
new dual carriageway.

  Work No. 43  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the construction of
the realigned Barford Road including the Barford Road bridge, private accesses
and private access tracks, and associated demolition to the existing Barford
Road.

  Work No. 44  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground water pipeline (1220 metres in length), commencing north of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, east of the realigned Barford Road (Work No. 43).

  Work No. 45  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground communication cable (Openreach) (440 metres in length) generally
following the access track constructed to the east of the realigned Barford
Road (Work No. 43).

  Work No. 46  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin east of the realigned Barford Road (Work No. 43) and north
of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 40).

  Work No. 47  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (220 metres in length), commencing north of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, east of the realigned Barford Road (Work No. 43).

  Work No. 48  – As shown on sheet 3 of the works plans the construction of
flood compensation areas north and south of the new dual carriageway (Work No.
40), including a culvert connecting them.

  Work No. 49  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (260 metres in length) commencing north of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, west of the East Coast Main Line Bridge (Work No. 50).

  Work No. 50  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the construction of
the East Coast Main Line Bridge, including private access tracks.

  Work No. 51  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground gas pipeline (270 metres in length), commencing north of the new
dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, east of the East Coast Main Line Bridge (Work No. 50).

  Work No. 52  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (630 metres in length), commencing north of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 40) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, east of the East Coast Main Line Bridge (Work No. 50).

  Work No. 53  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin, south of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 40).

###### In the administrative area of Central Bedfordshire Council and Bedford Borough Council

  Work No. 53A  – As shown on sheet 4 of the works plans the construction of a
bat tunnel (mammal underpass).

###### In the administrative area of Bedford Borough Council

  Work No. 54  – As shown on sheets 4 and 5 of the works plans the
construction of the new dual carriageway (1410 metres in length), including
associated demolition work to the existing access track from Top Farm.

  Work No. 55  – As shown on sheets 4 and 5 of the works plans the
construction of private access tracks and the Top Farm accommodation bridge.

  Work No. 56  – As shown on sheet 5 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (210 metres in length), commencing west of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 54) and terminating east of the new dual
carriageway, south of the Top Farm accommodation bridge (Work No. 55).

###### In the administrative area of Huntingdonshire District Council

  Work No. 57  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 8 to 12 (inclusive) of the works
plans the construction of the new dual carriageway (8900 metres in length),
including lay-bys, culverts and the construction of slip roads to and from the
roundabouts at Cambridge Road junction north and south Roundabouts (Work No.
80b).

  Work No. 58  – As shown on sheet 5 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (340 metres in length), commencing west of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) and terminating east of the new dual
carriageway.

  Work No. 59  – As shown on sheet 5 of the works plans the construction of a
flood compensation area between Potton Road and the new dual carriageway (Work
No. 57), including a culvert and the diversion of a watercourse (50 metres in
length).

  Work No. 60  – As shown on sheets 5 and 6A of the works plans the diversion
of an underground water pipeline (450 metres in length), commencing to the
west side of the realigned Potton Road (Work No. 64) and terminating to the
north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 61  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 6A of the works plans the
diversion of two underground water pipelines (varying in length from 210 to
380 metres) including—     a     the diversion of an underground water
pipeline (380 metres in length) commencing west of the realigned Potton Road
(Work No. 64) crossing the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) and terminating
north beyond Work No. 61b; and         b     the diversion of an underground
water pipeline (210 metres in length) commencing west of the realigned Potton
Road (Work No. 64) and terminating west of the new dual carriageway (Work No.
57).

  Work No. 62  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 6A of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water pipeline (200 metres in length) commencing
west of the realigned Potton Road (Work No. 64) and terminating west of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 63  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 6C of the works plans the
diversion of an underground electricity cable (280 metres in length)
commencing east of the realigned Potton Road (Work No. 64) and terminating
west of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 64  – As shown on sheets 5 and 6 of the works plans the
construction of the realigned Potton Road including a private means of access
and associated demolition work to the existing Potton Road.

  Work No. 65  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 6B of the works plans the
diversion of an underground communication cable (Openreach) (1330 metres in
length), commencing west of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) continuing
east along the B1046 Bridge and the realigned B1046 (Work No. 68) south of the
new dual carriageway, including a branch extending southwards (280 metres in
length) along the realigned Potton Road (Work No. 64).

  Work No. 66  – As shown on sheets 5, 6 and 6A of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water pipeline (380 metres in length) commencing
west of the realigned Potton Road (Work No. 64) and terminating east of the
new dual carriage way (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 67  – As shown on sheets 6 and 6C of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (520 metres in length) commencing west of
the new dual carriage way (Work No. 57) and terminating east of the new dual
carriageway.

  Work No. 68  – As shown on sheets 6 and 8 of the works plans the
construction of the realigned B1046, including the emergency access and
maintenance tracks, private access tracks both sides of the new dual
carriageway (Work No. 57), the construction of the B1046 Bridge and the
associated demolition work to the existing B1046.

  Work No. 69  – As shown on sheets 6 and 6C of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (1220 metres in length) commencing west of
the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) and terminating east of the new dual
carriageway along the realigned B1046 (Work No. 68).

  Work No. 69A  – As shown on sheets 6 and 6C of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (240 metres in length), crossing the
realigned B1046, west of the B1046 Bridge (Work No. 68).

  Work No. 69B  – As shown on sheets 6 and 6C of the works plans the diversion
of an underground electricity cable (245 metres in length), crossing the
realigned B1046, west of the B1046 Bridge (Work No. 68).

  Work No. 70  – As shown on sheet 6 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin east of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 71  – As shown on sheet 6 of the works plans the construction of a
flood compensation area, east of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 72  – As shown on sheet 6 of the works plans the construction of a
new underpass with footpath and culvert at Hen Brook.

  Work No. 73  – As shown on sheet 6 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin east of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57), north of Hen
Brook.

  Work No. 74  – As shown on sheet 7 of the works plans a construction
compound north west of the existing A428, between the B1046 and Hen Brook.

  Work No. 75  – As shown on sheet 8 of the works plans the construction of a
culvert at Wintringham Brook across the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 76  – As shown on sheet 8 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin east of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 77  – As shown on sheet 8 of the works plans the construction of a
realigned footpath, including the proposed footbridge over the new dual
carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 78  – As shown on sheet 8 of the works plans the construction of a
culvert across the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57), south of the new
attenuation basin (Work No. 79).

  Work No. 79  – As shown on sheet 8 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin between the existing A428 and the new dual carriageway (Work
No. 57).

  Work No. 80  – As shown on sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans the
construction of the Cambridge Road junction, including—     a     the
construction of the realigned A428 between the existing Cambridge Road
Roundabout and the Cambridge Road junction north Roundabout (Work No. 80b) and
private access tracks;         b     the construction of the Cambridge Road
junction north and south Roundabouts, the Cambridge Road Junction Dumbbell
Link Road and a private access track; and         c     the construction of
the realigned A428 from the Cambridge Road junction south Roundabout (Work No.
80b) and private access tracks including associated demolition work to the
existing A428 carriageway.

  Work No. 81  – As shown on sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans the diversion
of underground communication cables (Openreach, Vodafone and Virgin Media)
(each 1030 metres in length), commencing at the existing Cambridge Road
Roundabout and terminating east of the Cambridge Road junction south
Roundabout (Work No. 80b).

  Work No. 82  – As shown on sheet 9 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground electricity cable (420 metres in length), commencing north of the
new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) and terminating south of the new dual
carriageway, east of the Cambridge Road junction south Roundabout (Work No.
80b).

  Work No. 83  – As shown on sheet 9 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin, east of the Cambridge Road junction south Roundabout (Work
No. 80b).

  Work No. 84  – As shown on sheet 9 of the works plans the construction of an
attenuation basin, south of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 85  – As shown on sheets 9 and 10 of the works plans the
construction of a shared private access track and bridleway, the construction
of a new accommodation bridge across the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57),
including—     a     the demolition of the existing access track and
bridleway; and         b     the construction of a bridleway to the south,
reconnecting Bridleway 1/18.

  Work No. 86  – As shown on sheet 10 of the works plans the construction of a
culvert at Fox Brook across the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 87  – As shown on sheet 10 of the works plans the construction of a
culvert at Gallow Brook across the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57).

  Work No. 88  – As shown on sheets 10 and 11 of the works plans the
construction of an attenuation basin, south of the new dual carriageway (Work
No. 57).

###### In the administrative areas of Huntingdonshire District Council and South Cambridgeshire District Council

  Work No. 89  – As shown on sheet 11 of the works plans the construction of
the realigned Toseland Road, including the Toseland Road Bridge, emergency and
maintenance access tracks, private accesses and private access tracks north
and south of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57), the extension of a
culvert at Gallow Brook and the associated demolition work to the existing
Toseland Road.

  Work No. 90  - As shown on sheet 11 of the works plans the diversion of an
underground communication cable (Openreach) (580 metres in length) commencing
north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 57) and terminating south of the
new dual carriageway, across the Toseland Road Bridge (Work No. 89).

###### In the administrative area of South Cambridgeshire District Council

  Work No. 91  - As shown on sheets 12 to 15 of the works plans the
construction of the new dual carriageway (3800 metres in length) including tie
in works, lay-bys, culverts and the A1198 underpass at Caxton Gibbet junction,
as well as slip roads to and from Caxton Gibbet junction north, south and
south west Roundabouts (Work Nos. 109b and 109d).

  Work No. 92  – As shown on sheet 12 of the works plans the construction of a
combined bridleway and watercourse underpass to the west of the attenuation
basin (Work No. 93), including the diversion of a section of the West Brook
tributary.

  Work No. 93  – As shown on sheet 12 of the works plans the construction of
an attenuation basin, north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 91).

  Work No. 94  – As shown on sheet 12 of the works plans the construction of
an attenuation basin south of the realigned A428 (Work No. 98a).

  Work No. 95  – As shown on sheets 12, 13 and 13B of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water utility (1360 metres in length) commencing
east of the B1040 (south) and terminating north of the Eltisley Link north
Roundabout (Work No. 98b).

  Work No. 96  – As shown on sheets 12, 13 and 13A of the works plans the
diversion of an underground communication cable (Openreach) (1330 metres in
length) commencing north of Eltisley and terminating north of the Eltisley
Link north Roundabout (Work No. 98b).

  Work No. 97  – As shown on sheets 12, 13 and 13A of the works plans the
diversion of underground communication cables (Openreach, Vodafone and Virgin
Media) (1710 metres in length) commencing north of Eltisley and terminating
north of the attenuation basin (Work No. 101).

  Work No. 98  – As shown on sheets 12 and 13 of the works plans the
construction of the new Eltisley Link, including—     a     the construction
of the realigned A428 west of the Eltisley Link south Roundabout and private
access tracks and associated demolition works to the existing B1040 (north);
b     the construction of Eltisley bridge and associated link road, the
Eltisley Link north and south Roundabouts, and private access tracks;
c     the construction of the realigned Cambridge Road connecting to the
Eltisley Link south Roundabout (Work No. 98b);         d     the construction
of the realigned B1040 (north) connecting to the Eltisley Link north
Roundabout (Work No. 98b); and         e     the construction of the realigned
A428 east from the Eltisley Link North roundabout including a private access
track.

  Work No. 99  – As shown on sheets 13 and 13B of the works plans the
diversion and undergrounding of an overhead electricity line (730 metres in
length) commencing south of the existing A428 and terminating north of the
realigned A428 (Work No. 98e).

  Work No. 100  – As shown on sheets 13 and 13B of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water pipeline (1005 metres in length) commencing
south of the Eltisley Link south Roundabout (Work No. 98b) and terminating
north of the Eltisley Link north Roundabout (Work No. 98b).

  Work No. 101  – As shown on sheet 13 of the works plans the construction of
an attenuation basin north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 91).

  Work No. 102  – As shown on sheet 13 of the works plans the construction of
an attenuation basin north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 91).

  Work No. 103  – As shown on sheets 13, 13B, 14 and 14A of the works plans
the diversion of an underground water pipeline (2500 metres in length)
commencing north east of the Eltisely Link south Roundabout (Work No. 98b) and
terminating east of the Caxton Gibbet junction south Roundabout (Work No.
109b).

  Work No. 104  – As shown on sheets 13, 14 and 14B of the works plans the
diversion of underground communication cables (Openreach, Vodafone and Virgin
Media) (1580 metres in length) commencing east of the attenuation basin (Work
No. 102) and terminating east of the Caxton Gibbet junction south Roundabout
(Work No. 109b) including—     a     a branch of one of the underground
communication cables (Openreach) extending northwards (180 metres in length)
along the A1198 and terminating north of the Caxton Gibbet junction north
Roundabout (Work No. 109b); and         b     a branch of one of the
underground communication cables (Virgin Media) extending northwards (140
metres in length) along the A1198 and terminating north of the Caxton Gibbet
junction north Roundabout (Work No. 109b).

  Work No. 105  – Not Used.

  Work No. 106  – As shown on sheet 14 of the works plans a construction area
including borrow pit north west of the Caxton Gibbet junction (Work No. 109).

  Work No. 107  – As shown on sheets 14 and 14A of the works plans the
diversion of an underground water pipeline (700 metres in length) commencing
north of the Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout (Work No. 109b) and
terminating east of the Caxton Gibbet junction south Roundabout (Work No.
109c).

  Work No. 108  – As shown on sheet 14 of the works plans the construction of
an attenuation basin, north of the new dual carriageway (Work No. 91).

  Work No. 109  – As shown on sheets 13, 14 and 15 of the works plans the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction, including—     a     the
realignment of the existing A428 commencing 200 metres west of Work No. 102
and terminating at Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout (Work No.109b),
including the construction of a private means of access;         b     the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout and Caxton Gibbet
junction dumbbell link Road, as well as modifications to the existing Caxton
Gibbet roundabout (now Caxton Gibbet junction south Roundabout), including
partial demolition and modification of a section of the existing A1198
carriageway;         c     the construction of a shared private means of
access and bridleway from Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout (Work
No.109b) to Brockley Road; and         d     the construction of the Caxton
Gibbet junction south west Roundabout, including the construction of the new
link road to and from the Caxton Gibbet junction south Roundabout (Work
No.109b), the construction of a private means of access off the roundabout and
the demolition of an adjacent property to the north.

  Work No. 110  – As shown on sheets 14, 14A and 15 of the works plans the
diversion and undergrounding of an overhead electricity line (1800 metres in
length), commencing west of the Caxton Gibbet junction south west Roundabout
(Work No. 109d) continuing east along the realigned A428 past the Caxton
Gibbet junction north Roundabout, and terminating at Brockley Road including a
branch extending northwards (125 metres in length) from the centre line of the
realigned A428 (Work No. 109a) west of the A1198 and an additional branch
extending southwards (330 metres in length) across the new dual carriageway
(Work No. 91) west of the Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout.

  Work No. 111  – As shown on sheets 14 and 15 of the works plans a
construction area including borrow pit and site compound area north-east of
the Caxton Gibbet junction north Roundabout (Work No. 109b).

  In connection with the construction of any of those works, further
associated development within the Order limits consisting of—     a
alteration to the layout of any street permanently or temporarily, including
but not limited to increasing or reducing the width of the carriageway of the
street by reducing or increasing the width of any kerb, footpath, footway,
cycle track, bridlepath or verge within the street; and altering the level of
any such kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge;         b     works
required for the strengthening, improvement, maintenance or reconstruction of
any street;         c     refurbishment works to any existing bridge or
culvert;         d     the strengthening, alteration or demolition of any
building;         e     works in the verges of public highways;         f
temporary diversions of public highways, including laying down or hard
surfacing on any land to be used as a temporary diversion;         g
creation and removal of ramps, means of access, non-motorised routes or links,
footpaths, footways, cycle tracks, bridleways, bridlepaths, equestrian tracks,
restricted byways, lay-bys and crossing facilities, including the hard
surfacing of ways;         h     embankments, cuttings, viaducts, bridges,
aprons, abutments, shafts, foundations, retaining walls, barriers, pumping
stations, parapets, drainage, drainage treatment areas, ponds, lagoons,
outfalls, scour protection, ditches, pollution control devices, wing walls,
firefighting system, water tanks and associated plant and equipment, highway
lighting, closed circuit television infrastructure, variable message signs,
parking enforcement cameras, culverts and headwalls;         i     street
works, including breaking up or opening up a street, or any sewer, drain or
tunnel under it; tunnelling or boring under a street;         j     works to
place, alter, remove or maintain street furniture or apparatus in a street, or
apparatus in other land, including mains, sewers, drains, pipes, cables, ducts
and lights;         k     works to place, alter, divert, relocate, protect,
remove or maintain the position of apparatus (including statutory undertakers’
apparatus), services, plant and other equipment in, under or above a street,
or in other land, including mains, sewers, drains, pipes, lights, cables,
fencing and other boundary treatments;         l     works to alter the course
of or otherwise interfere with a watercourse, including private water
supplies;         m     areas of hard or soft landscaping works, re-grading,
re-profiling, contouring, noise bunds and barriers, creation of or alteration
to badger setts, associated with the provision of ecological, environmental
and archaeological mitigation or enhancement and other works to mitigate any
adverse effects of the construction, operation or maintenance of the
authorised development;         n     works comprising settlement monitoring
and mitigation measures for the benefit or protection of, or in relation to,
any land, building or structure, including monitoring and safeguarding or
existing infrastructure, utilities and services affected by the authorised
development;         o     site preparation works, site clearance (including
fencing and other boundary treatments, vegetation removal, demolition of
existing structures and the creation of alternative highways or footpaths);
earthworks (including soil stripping and storage and site levelling), site
restoration, remediation of contamination;         p     the felling of trees
and hedgerows;         q     the establishment of site construction compounds
and working sites, temporary structures, storage areas (including storage of
excavated material, fuel and other materials), temporary vehicle parking,
fencing and other enclosures, construction-related buildings, welfare
facilities, office facilities, other ancillary accommodation, construction
lighting, haul roads and other buildings, machinery, apparatus, processing or
batching plant, site precast concrete facility, crushing plant, works and
conveniences;         r     the provision of other works including pavement
works, kerbing and paved areas works, signing, signals, gantries, street
lighting, road restraints, road markings works, traffic management measures
including temporary roads and such other works as are associated with the
construction of the authorised development;         s     removal, alteration
and creation of boundary features including fencing and hedgerows;         t
works to replace or relocate the Black Cat sign currently situated in the
centre of the existing Black Cat junction and works to relocate milestones or
mileposts; and         u     such other works, working sites, storage areas
and works of demolition, as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of,
or for purposes ancillary to, the construction of the authorised development
which do not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects to those assessed in the environmental statement.

##### ANCILLARY WORKS

1

Works within the Order limits which have been subject to an environmental
impact assessment recorded in the environmental statement comprising—

1.a

temporary landing places, moorings or other means of accommodating vessels in
the construction and/or maintenance of the authorised development;

1.b

marking buoys, beacons, fenders and other navigational warning or ship impact
protection works; and

1.c

temporary works for the benefit or protection of land or structures affected
by the authorised development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 4

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ archaeological mitigation strategy ” means the document of that
description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by
the Secretary of State as the archaeological mitigation strategy for the
purposes of this Order;           “ biodiversity pre-commencement plan ” means
the document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the biodiversity pre-
commencement plan for the purposes of this Order;           “ Brook Cottages
heritage strategy ” means the document of that description listed in Schedule
10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of State as the
Brook Cottages heritage strategy for the purposes of this Order;           “
Brook Cottages soft strip ” means the soft strip referred to in the Brook
Cottages heritage strategy at section 3;           “ contaminated land ” means
land which the undertaker considers would amount to contaminated land within
the meaning given in section 78A(2)(a) or (b) of the Environmental Protection
Act 1990 ;           “ DMRB ” means the Design Manual for Roads and Bridges,
which accommodates all current standards, advice and other documents relating
to the design, assessment and operation of trunk roads and motorways, or any
equivalent replacement to the DMRB published;           “ Ecological Clerk of
Works ” means the individual appointed as such by the undertaker as required
by the First Iteration EMP;           “ First Iteration EMP ” means the
document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be
certified), being the first iteration of the environmental management plan
produced in accordance with the DMRB during the preliminary design stage and
certified by the Secretary of State as the First Iteration EMP for the
purposes of this Order, and which includes an outline plan for the following—
Air Quality Management Plan;           Noise Management Plan;           Waste
Management Plan;           Biodiversity Management Plan;           Soil
Handling and Management Plan;           Water Management Plan;
Energy and Resource Management Plan;           Materials Management Plan;
Contaminated Land Management Plan;           Archaeological Management Plan;
Construction Compound Management Plan;           Landscape and Ecology
Management Plan;           Travel Plan; and           Borrow Pits Management
Plan;                 “ European protected species ” has the same meaning as
in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and 46 (European
protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017 ;           “ flood risk assessment ” means the document of
that description including the flood risk assessment technical note as listed
in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by the Secretary of
State as the flood risk assessment for the purposes of this Order;           “
outline construction traffic management plan ” means the document of that
description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by
the Secretary of State as the outline construction traffic management plan for
the purposes of this Order;           “ pre-commencement plan ” means the
document of that description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified)
and certified by the Secretary of State as the pre-commencement plan for the
purposes of this Order;           “ priority habitat ” means a type of habitat
identified as being of principle importance in England in accordance with
section 41 (biodiversity lists and actions (England)) of the Natural
Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006 ;           “ protected species ”
means species which are subject to protection under the laws of England or
which are European protected species;           “ relevant local authority ”
means a local authority within the meaning given by section 43(3)  of the 2008
Act and in whose area the part of the authorised development in question is
located;           “ relevant stakeholders ” in relation to a part of the
authorised development means relevant local authorities and relevant statutory
environmental bodies;           “ relevant statutory environmental body ”
means a statutory body exercising functions relating to environmental matters
and which because of those functions is likely to be interested in the
detailed design of the part of the authorised development in question;
“ scheme design approach and design principles ” means the document of that
description listed in Schedule 10 (documents to be certified) and certified by
the Secretary of State as the scheme design approach and design principles for
the purposes of this Order;           “ Second Iteration EMP ” means the
second iteration of the environmental management plan produced in accordance
with the DMRB containing detailed plans relating to the construction phase of
the authorised development substantially in accordance with the First
Iteration EMP;           “ Third Iteration EMP ” means the third iteration of
the environmental management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB
containing detailed plans relating to the operational and maintenance phase of
the authorised development substantially in accordance with the First
Iteration EMP.

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must not begin later than the expiration of 5 years
from the date on which this Order comes into force.

###### Second Iteration EMP

3

3.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until the Second
Iteration EMP in relation to that part has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority, the Environment Agency, Natural England, and the relevant
local highway authority so far as it is relevant to their respective
functions.

3.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the Second
Iteration EMP.

###### Third Iteration EMP

4

4.1

Following completion of construction of the authorised development the Third
Iteration EMP must be submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with the relevant planning authority and the
relevant local highway authority so far as it is relevant to their respective
functions.

4.2

The authorised development must be operated and maintained in accordance with
the Third Iteration EMP.

###### Details of consultation

5

5.1

With respect to any requirement which requires details to be submitted to the
Secretary of State for approval under this Schedule following consultation
with another party, the details submitted must be accompanied by a summary
report enclosing the written responses received and setting out the
consultation undertaken by the undertaker pursuant to that requirement to
inform the details submitted and the undertaker’s response to that
consultation.

5.2

Promptly after submission to the Secretary of State for approval, the
undertaker must provide a copy of the summary report referred to under
paragraph (1) to the relevant consultees referred to in the requirement in
relation to which approval is being sought from the Secretary of State.

###### Landscaping

6

6.1

No part of the authorised development can come into use until a landscaping
scheme for that part which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft
landscaping works is submitted to the Secretary of State for approval in
writing following consultation with Natural England, the relevant planning
authority and the relevant local highway authority so far as it is relevant to
their respective functions.

6.2

The landscaping scheme for each part must be substantially in accordance with
the applicable mitigation measures for landscaping set out in the First
Iteration EMP and the landscaping principles set out in the environmental
masterplan.

6.3

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with the approved
landscaping scheme for that part.

6.4

A landscaping scheme referred to in paragraph (1) must contain details of—

6.4.a

location, number, species, mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

6.4.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

6.4.c

proposed finished ground levels;

6.4.d

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period; and

6.4.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works.

6.5

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
or other recognised codes of good practice.

6.6

Any tree or shrub planted as part of a landscaping scheme that, within a
period of 5 years after planting, is removed, dies or becomes in the opinion
of the relevant planning authority, seriously damaged or diseased, must be
replaced in the first available planting season with a specimen of the same
species and size as that originally planted, unless the Secretary of State,
following consultation with the relevant planning authority, gives consent to
a variation.

###### Fencing

7

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure that would be
adjacent to the new dual carriageway forming part of the authorised
development must be constructed and installed in accordance with the
undertaker’s Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works except where any
departures from that manual are agreed in writing by the Secretary of State in
connection with the authorised development.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

8

8.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development, which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement, it must be reported as soon as
reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State, the Environment Agency and
the relevant planning authority, and the undertaker must complete a risk
assessment of the contamination in consultation with the Environment Agency
and the relevant planning authority.

8.2

Where the undertaker determines that remediation of the contaminated land is
necessary, a written scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be
taken to render the land fit for its intended purpose must be submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the
Environment Agency and the relevant planning authority.

8.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Archaeology

9

The authorised development must be carried out, operated and maintained in
accordance with the archaeological mitigation strategy and, as set out in that
strategy, the undertaker must submit individual Site Specific Written Schemes
of Investigation to the relevant planning authority for approval.

###### Protected species

10

10.1

In the event that any protected species which were not previously identified
in the environmental statement or nesting birds are found at any time when
carrying out the authorised development the undertaker must—

10.1.a

cease the relevant parts of the relevant works and report it immediately to
the Ecological Clerk of Works; and

10.1.b

prepare a written scheme for the protection and mitigation measures of such
protected species or nesting birds when carrying out the authorised
development.

10.2

The undertaker must implement the written scheme prepared under paragraph (1)
immediately and construction in the area specified in the written scheme must
not recommence until any necessary licences are obtained to enable mitigation
measures to be implemented.

###### Traffic management

11

11.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a traffic
management plan for the construction of that part of the authorised
development, substantially in accordance with the outline construction traffic
management plan, has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State following consultation with the relevant local highway
authority.

11.2

The authorised development must be constructed in accordance with the approved
traffic management plan.

###### Detailed design

12

12.1

The detailed design for the authorised development must accord with—

12.1.a

the preliminary scheme design shown on the works plans, the general
arrangement plans and the engineering section drawings;

12.1.b

the principles set out in the environmental masterplan; and

12.1.c

the design principles set out in the scheme design approach and design
principles,

unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State following
consultation with the relevant local authority on matters related to their
functions, provided that the Secretary of State is satisfied that any
amendments would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

12.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under paragraph
(1), those details are deemed to be substituted for the corresponding plans or
sections and the undertaker must make those amended details available in
electronic form for inspection by members of the public.

12.3

No part of the authorised development is to commence until, for that part, a
report has been submitted to, and, following consultation with the relevant
local planning authority, approved by the Secretary of State, demonstrating
that—

12.3.a

the undertaker has engaged with relevant stakeholders on refinements to
detailed design for that part of the authorised development;

12.3.b

the undertaker has had regard to the relevant stakeholders’ comments; and

12.3.c

any refinements to the detailed design for that part of the authorised
development arising as a result of that engagement accord with the scheme
design approach and design principles.

###### Surface and foul water drainage

13

13.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until for that part
written details of the surface and foul water drainage system, reflecting the
mitigation measures set out in the engineering section drawings (drainage
layouts) including means of pollution control, have been submitted to and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State following consultation with the
relevant local authority on matters relating to its function.

13.2

The surface and foul water drainage system must be constructed in accordance
with the approved details referred to in paragraph (1) unless otherwise agreed
in writing by the Secretary of State following consultation with the relevant
local authority on matters relating to its function, provided that the
Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the approved details
would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

###### Flood compensatory storage

14

14.1

Subject to paragraph (2) below, no part of the authorised development is to
commence until a detailed floodplain compensation scheme for that part has
been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority and the Environment Agency.

14.2

No part of the authorised development at the River Great Ouse is to commence
until a detailed floodplain compensation scheme for that part has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the Environment Agency.

14.3

The schemes prepared under paragraphs (1) and (2) must provide suitable flood
storage for any flood waters that would be displaced by the authorised
development in the 1 in 100 year plus 35% climate change allowance event.

14.4

The scheme must be implemented as approved and subsequently maintained.

###### Safeguarding of milestones

15

Any work to the grade II listed milestones with National Heritage Numbers
1163534, 1331394 and 1162760 and the non-designated milestone Historic
Environment Record Reference 8808 must be carried out in accordance with the
archaeological mitigation strategy.

###### Brook Cottages

16

16.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (5), the dismantling of Brook Cottages comprised
within Work No. 21 must be carried out in accordance with the Brook Cottages
heritage strategy unless otherwise agreed with the Secretary of State.

16.2

At the completion of the Brook Cottages soft strip, the undertaker must
provide to Historic England and Bedford Borough Council a report containing—

16.2.a

information on the heritage interest and significance of Brook Cottages;

16.2.b

details of the existing physical condition of Brook Cottages; and

16.2.c

in light of (a) and (b) above, options for dismantling Brook Cottages and if
relevant, storing, transporting and reconstructing those elements of Brook
Cottages that could be relocated to conserve the historic fabric.

16.3

Within 35 days of receipt of the information set out in paragraph (2),
Historic England, in consultation with Bedford Borough Council, must advise
the undertaker of the suitability of proceeding with relocation and, if
Historic England advises that the historic fabric is suitable for relocation,
it must confirm an approved method of dismantling and storing the historic
fabric.

16.4

Unless Historic England, in consultation with Bedford Borough Council, advise
that the historic fabric is suitable for relocation within 35 days in
accordance with paragraph (3) the undertaker must proceed with dismantling and
recording as set out in the Brook Cottages heritage strategy but is not
required to take any further steps in relation to relocation.

16.5

If Historic England, in consultation with Bedford Borough Council, advises
that the historic fabric is suitable for relocation then, unless otherwise
agreed with the Secretary of State, the undertaker must complete the
dismantling and store the historic fabric using the approved method confirmed
by Historic England under paragraph (3).

16.6

As soon as reasonably practicable following dismantling and storage of the
historic fabric in accordance with paragraph (5) the undertaker must submit to
the Secretary of State for approval in consultation with Bedford Borough
Council and Historic England, either—

16.6.a

details demonstrating why reconstruction is not appropriate; or

16.6.b

details of—

16.6.b.i

an appropriate future use for the historic fabric;

16.6.b.ii

a suitable receptor willing to receive the historic fabric;

16.6.b.iii

the method of transporting the historic fabric for reconstruction;

16.6.b.iv

a schedule of works for reconstruction; and

16.6.b.v

a timetable for the completion of the reconstruction.

16.7

In the event that the Secretary of State approves details for the relocation
of the historic fabric under sub-paragraph (6)(b), the undertaker must
relocate the historic fabric in accordance with the details so approved,
unless otherwise agreed with the Secretary of State.

16.8

The undertaker must provide a copy of the level 3 record to Bedford Borough
Council and Historic England on completion of the dismantling.

16.9

The level 3 record referred in sub-paragraph (8) is a record prepared in
accordance with the Brook Cottages heritage strategy which conforms to a level
3 archaeological record, as defined in Historic England’s Understanding
Historic Buildings: A Guide to Good Recording Practice (2016).

###### Highway Lighting

17

17.1

No part of the authorised development may be brought into use until a written
scheme of the proposed highway lighting to be provided for that part of the
authorised development has been submitted to and approved in writing by the
Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant local authority
on matters relating to its function.

17.2

The highway lighting scheme referred to in paragraph (1) must encompass the
specification, level of provision, energy efficiency, light spillage,
intensity and brightness of the highway lighting and must—

17.2.a

reflect the mitigation measures included in Chapter 8 Biodiversity and Chapter
14 Climate of the environmental statement; or

17.2.b

where it materially differs from these measures, must demonstrate that the
mitigation proposed would not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the
environmental statement.

17.3

The highway lighting must be provided in accordance with the approved details
referred to in paragraph (1).

17.4

Nothing in this requirement restricts the lighting of the authorised
development during its construction or where temporarily required for
maintenance.

###### Noise Mitigation

18

18.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until written details of
the proposed noise mitigation for the use and operation of that part of the
authorised development, including noise barriers, noise bunds and low noise
surfacing, has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with the relevant planning authority.

18.2

The written details referred to in paragraph (1) must—

18.2.a

reflect the mitigation measures for operation included in Chapter 11 Noise and
Vibration, of the environmental statement; or

18.2.b

where it materially differs from these measures, must demonstrate that the
mitigation proposed would not give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the
environmental statement.

18.3

The noise mitigation must be provided in accordance with the approved details
referred to in paragraph (1) and must be retained thereafter.

###### Construction hours

19

19.1

Construction work for the authorised development must only take place between
0700 hours and 1800 hours Monday to Friday, and 0700 hours to 1300 hours on
Saturdays, with no activity on Sundays or bank holidays, except as specified
in paragraphs (2) and (3).

19.2

Outside the hours and days specified in paragraph (1), daily start up and shut
down is permitted and construction work may be undertaken for essential
activities comprising—

19.2.a

bridge and gantry demolition and installation including the installation of
safety systems;

19.2.b

works over and adjacent to the East Coast Main Line railway;

19.2.c

lifting operations;

19.2.d

site clearance of vegetation adjacent to live carriageways;

19.2.e

site clearance of signs, street furniture and lighting columns adjacent to
live carriageways;

19.2.f

any oversize deliveries or deliveries where daytime working would be
excessively disruptive to normal traffic operation, including delivery of
plant;

19.2.g

junction and highway tie-in works;

19.2.h

installation of temporary and permanent line markings;

19.2.i

traffic management measures and signal changes;

19.2.j

installation of signs and technology;

19.2.k

any emergency works or operations required for safe working;

19.2.l

completion of activities already begun which require continuous periods of
operation, such as completing concrete pouring; or

19.2.m

non-intrusive environmental and engineering surveys.

19.3

Outside the hours and days specified in paragraph (1), the undertaker may with
the prior written consent of the relevant planning authority carry out the
following activities—

19.3.a

concrete pours and piling, diaphragm wall works, pavement operations;

19.3.b

work associated with the diversion of existing utilities, including the
removal of overhead power lines;

19.3.c

earthworks operations, including excavation, filling, transport, placing and
compacting of earthworks material;

19.3.d

intrusive environmental and engineering surveys; or

19.3.e

activities assessed in the environmental statement or which would not give
rise to new or materially different effects from those assessed in the
environmental statement which do not fall within paragraph (2).

###### Pre-commencement works

20

Any pre-commencement works must be carried out in accordance with the
biodiversity pre-commencement plan and the pre-commencement plan.

###### Flood risk assessment

21

21.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), the authorised development must be carried out
in accordance with the flood risk assessment, including the mitigation
measures detailed in it, so that no part of the authorised development is
predicted to result in any exceedance of the flood levels to properties and
land shown in the flood risk assessment.

21.2

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in any circumstance where the undertaker
proposes to carry out a part of the authorised development otherwise than in
accordance with the flood risk assessment and either demonstrates to the
Secretary of State’s satisfaction, in consultation with the Environment
Agency, that the part of the authorised development concerned would not result
in an exceedance of the flood levels shown in the flood risk assessment beyond
10mm or demonstrates that all affected landowners accept the predicted
exceedance of the flood levels shown in the flood risk assessment.

###### Construction phase local traffic monitoring

22

22.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until a construction
phase local traffic monitoring scheme for the locations identified in the
outline construction traffic management plan has been submitted to, and,
following consultation with the relevant local highway authority, approved by
the Secretary of State.

22.2

The construction phase local traffic management scheme must include—

22.2.a

a survey to assess baseline traffic at the locations identified in the outline
construction traffic management plan;

22.2.b

the methodology to be used to collect the required data;

22.2.c

the periods over which construction phase traffic is to be monitored;

22.2.d

proposals for the submission of the survey data collected and an
interpretative report to be provided to the relevant local highway authority;
and

22.2.e

surveys as agreed in paragraphs (b) to (d) at the location in paragraph (a).

22.3

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be implemented by the
undertaker unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Secretary of State
following consultation with the relevant local highway authority.

###### Operation phase local traffic monitoring

23

23.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an operation phase
local traffic monitoring scheme has been submitted to, and following
consultation with the relevant local highway authority, approved by the
Secretary of State for the following locations—

23.1.a

Great North Road, between A428 and Nelson Road;

23.1.b

Cambridge Road, between Station Road and A428;

23.1.c

Park Street East, Dry Drayton;

23.1.d

Brook Lane, Coton; and

23.1.e

St Neots Road, Sandy.

23.2

The operation phase local traffic monitoring scheme must include—

23.2.a

a survey to assess baseline traffic levels at the locations listed in sub-
paragraph (1)(a) to (e);

23.2.b

an operation  phase   traffic survey at the locations listed in sub-paragraph
(1)(a) to (e) within the first year and fifth year following the date on which
the authorised development is fully completed and open for traffic to assess
the changes in traffic from the baseline;

23.2.c

the methodology to be used to collect the required data;

23.2.d

the periods over which operation  phase   traffic is to be monitored; and

23.2.e

proposals for the submission of the survey data collected and an
interpretative report to be provided to the relevant local highway authority.

23.3

The scheme approved under sub-paragraph (1) must be implemented by the
undertaker unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Secretary of State
following consultation with the relevant local highway authority.

###### Biodiversity net gain assessment and offsetting scheme

24

24.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until an updated
biodiversity net gain assessment has been submitted to, and, following
consultation with Natural England and the relevant local planning authorities,
approved by the Secretary of State.

24.2

The biodiversity net gain assessment must describe—

24.2.a

the scope of the assessment, which must include priority habitats such as
lowland mixed deciduous woodland, wood-pasture and parkland, and hedgerows;

24.2.b

the methodology used to collect the required data based on a metric that has
been agreed with Natural England and the relevant local planning authorities
(such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);

24.2.c

the timing of the assessment; and

24.2.d

the assessment findings and conclusions.

24.3

If the assessment findings and conclusions demonstrate that a loss of priority
habitat will be incurred, no part of the authorised development is to commence
until a biodiversity offsetting scheme has been submitted to, and, following
consultation with Natural England and the relevant local planning authorities,
approved by the Secretary of State.

24.4

A biodiversity offsetting scheme must include—

24.4.a

details of how any priority habitat losses incurred as a result of the
authorised development will be offset and the target condition for each
habitat; and

24.4.b

a programme for the implementation, monitoring and management of the
biodiversity offset proposals.

24.5

The biodiversity offsetting scheme must provide for its implementation before
any part of the authorised development is open to traffic.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

25

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details approved under this Schedule,
the approved details are taken to include any amendments that may subsequently
be approved or agreed in writing by the Secretary of State.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

26

26.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including agreement or
approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

26.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

26.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 27; or

26.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

26.2

Subject to paragraph (3), in the event that the Secretary of State does not
determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

26.3

Where—

26.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

26.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph (1); and

26.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted under the requirement that considers it likely that the subject
matter of the application is to give rise to any materially new or materially
different environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the
environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

27

27.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

27.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary, the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates. In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such
notification within this 21 business day period the Secretary of State is
deemed to have sufficient information to consider the application and is not
subsequently entitled to request further information without the prior
agreement of the undertaker.

27.3

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 26 and in this paragraph.

27.4

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays) of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

###### Register of requirements

28

28.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

28.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

28.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

29

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

  CLASSIFICATION OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 13 and 19

##### TRUNK ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road           Bedford
Borough Council,       Cambridge County Council,       Central Bedfordshire
Council,       Roxton CP,       Tempsford CP,       Little Barford CP,
Abbotsley CP,       Toseland CP,       Yelling CP,       Croxton CP,
Eltisley CP,       Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Cambourne CP     The new dual
carriageway (eastbound) between point 1/1 on Sheet 1 and point 15/1 on Sheet
15 as shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the
classification of roads plans, comprising a length of 18825 metres.
Bedford Borough Council,       Cambridge County Council,       Central
Bedfordshire Council,       Roxton CP,       Tempsford CP,       Little
Barford CP,       Abbotsley CP,       Toseland CP,       Yelling CP,
Croxton CP,       Eltisley CP,       Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP,
Elsworth CP,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Cambourne CP
The new dual carriageway (westbound) between point 1/29 on Sheet 1 to point
15/2 on Sheet 15, as shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14
and 15 of the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 18825
metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
The Black Cat junction eastbound off-slip road between points 1/2 and 1/9, as
shown on Sheet 1 of the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
615 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP     The A421 segregated left turn lane between points 1/8 and 1/11 on Sheet
1, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 197
metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
The Black Cat junction northbound on-slip road between point 1/10 on Sheet 1
and point 2/14 on Sheet 2, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 499 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The Black Cat junction
southbound off-slip road between point 1/13 on Sheet 1 and point 2/16 on Sheet
2, as shown on Sheet 1 of the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 511 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Roxton CP     The
Black Cat junction eastbound on-slip road between 1/15 on Sheet 1 and point
3/1 on Sheet 3 of the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 371
metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Roxton CP     The Black Cat
junction westbound off-slip road between point 1/16 on Sheet 1 and point 3/4
on Sheet 3, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length
of 381 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The entire length of the Black Cat junction
circulatory, point 1/17 on Sheet 1, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 669 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Roxton CP     The Black Cat junction southbound off-slip road between points
1/18 and 1/19 on Sheet 1, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 342 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The realigned A1
southbound carriageway between point 1/20 on Sheet 1 and point 2/12 on Sheet
2, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 1761
metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,
Roxton CP     The realigned A1 northbound carriageway between point 1/21 on
Sheet 1 and point 2/11 on Sheet 2, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 1767 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Roxton CP     The Black Cat junction northbound off-slip road between points
1/22 and 1/23 on Sheet 1, as shown of classification of road plans, comprising
a length of 276 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The Black Cat junction westbound on-slip
road between points 1/26 and 1/28 on Sheet 1, as shown of the classification
of road plans, comprising a length of 430 metres.     Cambridgeshire County
Council,       Abbotsley CP     The emergency access road between points 6/4
and 6/5 on Sheet 6, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 379 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP
The emergency access road between points 6/6 and 6/7 on Sheet 6, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 315 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The Cambridge Road
junction eastbound off-slip road between point 8/1 on Sheet 8 and point 9/1 on
Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
260 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The
Cambridge Road junction westbound on-slip road between point 9/10 on Sheet 9
and point 8/3 on Sheet 8, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 339 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Abbotsley CP     The Cambridge Road junction eastbound on-slip road between
points 9/3 and 9/4 on Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 402 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Abbotsley CP     The Cambridge Road junction westbound off-slip road between
points 9/5 and 9/6 on Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 332 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Croxton CP,       Toseland CP,       Yelling CP     The emergency access road
between points 11/3 and 11/4 on Sheet 11, as shown on the classification of
road plans, comprising a length of 227 metres.     Cambridgeshire County
Council,       Croxton CP,       Toseland CP,       Yelling CP     The
emergency access road between points 11/5 and 11/6 on Sheet 11, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 318 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP
The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound off-slip road between points 14/1 and
14/2 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 691 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Elsworth CP
The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound on-slip road between points 14/7 and 14/8
on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length
of 498 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Elsworth CP,
Cambourne CP     The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound off-slip road between
points 14/9 and 14/10 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 511 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP     The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound
on-slip road between points 14/17 and 14/18 on Sheet 14, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 455 metres.

##### CLASSIFIED ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road           Bedford
Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP
The realigned Roxton Road between points 1/3 and 1/27 on Sheet 1, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 311 metres.
Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The Roxton
Road roundabout, point 1/4 on Sheet 1, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 90 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The realigned Roxton Road between points
1/5 and 1/6 on Sheet 1, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 209 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The Roxton Road link (south) between
point 1/7 on Sheet 1 and point 2/15 on Sheet 2, as shown on the classification
of road plans, comprising a length of 1078 metres.     Bedford Borough
Council,       Roxton CP     The realigned Bedford Road between points 1/24
and 1/25 on Sheet 1, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising
a length of 210 metres.     Central Bedfordshire Council,       Tempsford CP
The realigned Barford Road between points 3/2 and 3/3 on Sheet 3, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 1310 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The realigned Potton
Road between point 5/1 on Sheet 5 and point 6/3 on Sheet 6, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 444 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The realigned B1046
between points 6/1 and 6/2 on Sheet 6, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 1383 metres. Bedford Borough Council, Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP The existing Great North Road roundabout, which will be
re-classified as the A1428, point 7/1 on Sheet 7, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 168 metres. Bedford
Borough Council, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP, Little Barford CP The
existing A428, which will be re-classified as the A1428, between point 7/2 and
7/3 on Sheet 7, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 1538 metres. Bedford Borough Council, Little Barford CP The existing
Barford Road roundabout, which will be re-classified as the A1428, point 7/4
on Sheet 7, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length
of 125 metres. Bedford Borough Council, Little Barford CP Cambridgeshire
County Council, Abbotsley CP The existing A428, which will be re-classified as
the A1428, between point 7/5 on Sheet 7 and 8/4 on Sheet 8, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 3131 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP, St Neots CP The existing
Cambridge Road roundabout, which will be re-classified as the A1428, point 8/5
on Sheet 8, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length
of 137 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       St. Neots CP,
Abbotsley CP     The realigned A428, which will be re-classified as the A1428,
between point 8/2 on Sheet 8 and point 9/2 on Sheet 9 as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 350 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The Cambridge Road
junction north roundabout, which will form part of the A1428, point 9/15 on
Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
175 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The
northbound carriageway of the Cambridge Road junction dumbbell link road,
which will form part of the A1428, between points 9/11 and 9/14 on Sheet 9, as
shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 142 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The southbound
carriageway of the Cambridge Road junction dumbbell link road, which will form
part of the A1428, between points 9/13 and 9/12 on Sheet 9, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 143 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The Cambridge Road
junction south roundabout, which will form part of the A1428, point 9/9 on
Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
187 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Abbotsley CP     The
realigned A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428, between points 9/7
and 9/8 on Sheet 9, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 374 metres. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP, Croxton CP,
Eltisley CP The existing A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428,
between point 9/7 on Sheet 9 and point 12/1 on Sheet 12, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 5088 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Toseland CP,       Croxton CP     The
realigned Toseland Road between points 11/1 and 11/2 on Sheet 11, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 970 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Eltisley CP     The realigned A428, which
will be re-classified as the B1428, between point 12/1 on Sheet 12 and point
13/10 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 681 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Eltisley CP
The realigned A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428, between points
13/1 and 13/11 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 242 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Eltisley CP     The Eltisley link north roundabout, which will form part of
the B1428, point 13/2 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 138 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Eltisley CP,       Yelling CP     The realigned B1040 between points 13/3 and
13/4 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a
length of 268 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Eltisley CP
The realigned A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428, between points
13/5 and 13/6 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 725 metres. Cambridgeshire County Council, Eltisley CP
The existing A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428, between point
13/6 and 13/12 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 640 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Eltisley CP     The Eltisley link south roundabout, which will form part of
the B1428, point 13/7 on Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 162 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Eltisley CP     The realigned Cambridge Road between points 13/8 and 13/9 on
Sheet 13, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising length of
178 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Eltisley CP     The
realigned A428, which will be re-classified as the B1428, between point 13/12
on Sheet 13 and point 14/3 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 866 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP     The Caxton Gibbet junction north
roundabout, point 14/6 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road
plans, comprising a length of 224 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP     The realigned A1198 between points
14/4 and 14/5 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road plans,
comprising a length of 255 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP     The northbound carriageway of the
Caxton Gibbet junction dumbbell link road between points 14/23 and 14/24 on
Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length
149 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Papworth Everard CP,
Elsworth CP     The southbound carriageway of the Caxton Gibbet junction
dumbbell link road between points 14/25 and 14/26 on Sheet 14, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 149 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP,
Cambourne CP     The Caxton Gibbet junction south roundabout, point 14/11 on
Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
202 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,       Papworth Everard CP
The eastbound carriageway of the Caxton Gibbet junction south west link road
between points 14/21 to 14/22 on Sheet 14, as shown on the classification of
road plans, comprising a length 182 metres.     Cambridgeshire County Council,
Papworth Everard CP     The westbound carriageway of the Caxton Gibbet
junction south west link road between points 14/14 to 14/15 on Sheet 14, as
shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 183 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Papworth Everard CP,       Caxton CP
The Caxton Gibbet junction south west roundabout, point 14/16 on Sheet 14, as
shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 131 metres.
Cambridgeshire County Council,       Papworth Everard CP,       Caxton CP
The realigned A1198 between points 14/12 and 14/13 on Sheet 14, as shown on
the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 73 metres.

##### UNCLASSIFIED ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road           Bedford
Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The combined
Kelpie Marina access track and bridleway between points 1/30 and 1/31 on Sheet
1, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 407
metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
The A1 services link road between point 1/14 on Sheet 1 and point 2/13 on
Sheet 2, as shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of
857 metres.     Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP     The Roxton Road link (north) between points 2/2 and 2/5 on Sheet 2, as
shown on the classification of road plans, comprising a length of 669 metres.
Bedford Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The
Nagshead Lane link road between points 2/3 and 2/9 on Sheet 2, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 157 metres.     Bedford
Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The Nagshead Lane
link road between points 2/7 and 2/8 on Sheet 2, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 42 metres.     Bedford
Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The Nagshead Lane
link road between points 2/16 and 2/17 on Sheet 2, as shown on the
classification of road plans, comprising a length of 32 metres.     Bedford
Borough Council,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     The realigned The
Lane between points 2/4 and 2/6 on Sheet 2, as shown on the classification of
road plans, comprising a length of 112 metres.

##### SPEED LIMITS

  Note 1:  the naming conventions used in this Schedule to describe roads,
junctions and structures relate to the naming conventions used in the labels
on the permanent speed limit plans.

  Note 2:  References to the national speed limit in column (3) of the table
in this Part of this Schedule are references to the maximum speed limits
specified under the 1984 Act and to provision made, or deemed to have been
made, under the 1984 Act.             (1)       Parish(es)         (2)
Road name, number and length         (3)         Speed Limit           Roxton
CP,       Tempsford CP,       Little Barford CP,       Abbotsley CP,
Toseland CP,       Yelling CP,       Croxton CP,       Eltisley CP,
Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP,       Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP,       Cambourne CP     The new dual carriageway
(eastbound) starting at the point 801 metres west of the Roxton Road Bridge to
the point 920 metres east of the Caxton Gibbet dumbbell link Road for a total
distance of 18825 metres, as shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14 and 15 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Roxton CP,       Tempsford CP,       Little Barford CP,       Abbotsley CP,
Toseland CP,       Yelling CP,       Croxton CP,       Eltisley CP,
Caxton CP,       Papworth Everard CP,       Elsworth CP,       Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP,       Cambourne CP     The new dual carriageway
(westbound) starting at the point 920 metres east of the Caxton Gibbet
dumbbell link Road to the point 801 metres west of the Roxton Road Bridge for
a total distance of 18825 metres, as shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10,
11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The Black Cat junction
circulatory, the whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a total
distance of 670 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat
junction eastbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge with the new dual
carriageway (eastbound) to the point 15 metres west of the Roxton Road Bridge
for a total distance of 677 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed
limit plans. National Speed Limit Roxton CP The Black Cat junction eastbound
off-slip road, starting at the point 15 metres west of the Roxton Road Bridge
to the point where it meets the Black Cat junction circulatory for a total
distance of 220 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit
plans. 60 miles per hour Roxton CP The Black Cat junction eastbound on-slip
road, starting at Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it merges
with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) for a total distance of 456 metres,
as shown on Sheet 1 and Sheet 3 of the permanent speed limit plans. National
Speed Limit Roxton CP The Black Cat junction westbound off-slip road, starting
from the diverge with the new dual carriageway (westbound) to the point where
it meets the Black Cat junction circulatory for a total distance of 444
metres, as shown on Sheet 1 and Sheet 3 of the permanent speed limit plans.
National Speed Limit Roxton CP The Black Cat junction westbound on-slip road,
starting from the Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it merges
with the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a total distance of 838 metres,
as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The A421 segregated left turn lane, starting
from the diverge with the Black Cat junction eastbound off-slip road to the
point where it merges with the Black Cat junction northbound on-slip road for
a total distance of 341 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed
limit plans. 60 miles per hour Roxton CP The realigned A1 (northbound)
starting at the point 700 metres south of the centre line of the new dual
carriageway as it crosses the A1 (northbound) to the point 1067 metres north
of the centre line of the new dual carriageway as it crosses the A1
(northbound) for a total distance of 1767 metres, as shown on Sheets 2 and 1
of the permanent speed limit plans. 60 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP The realigned A1 (southbound) starting at the point 1063 metres
north of the centre line of the new dual carriageway as it crosses the A1
(southbound) to the point 698 metres south of the centre line of the new dual
carriageway as it crosses the A1 (southbound) for a total distance of 1761
metres as shown on Sheet 2 and Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit plans. 60
miles per hour Roxton CP The Black Cat junction northbound off-slip road,
starting from the diverge with the realigned A1 (northbound) to the point
where it meets the Black Cat junction circulatory for a total distance of 390
metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit plans. 60 miles per
hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat junction northbound on-
slip road stating at Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it
merges with the realigned A1 (northbound) for a total distance of 566 metres,
as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the permanent speed limit plans. 60 miles per
hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat junction southbound off-
slip road starting from the diverge with the realigned A1 (southbound) to the
point where it meets the Black Cat junction circulatory for a total distance
of 341 metres, as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the permanent speed limit plans.
60 miles per hour Roxton CP The Black Cat junction southbound on-slip road
starting at the Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it merges
with the realigned A1 (southbound) for a total distance of 411 metres, as
shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit plans. 60 miles per hour
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The realigned Roxton
Road, starting from the intersection with Bedford Road to the south side of
the new Roxton Road roundabout for a total distance of 311 metres, as shown on
Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit plans. 40 miles per hour     Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The realigned Roxton Road,
starting at the north side of the Roxton Road roundabout to the point 167
metres north for a total distance of 167 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the
permanent speed limit plans. 40 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP The Roxton Road roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory carriageway
for a total distance of 89 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed
limit plans. 40 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Roxton
Road link (south) between the realigned Roxton Road and Chawston Lane,
starting at the eastern side of the Roxton Road roundabout to the point where
it intersects with Chawston Lane for a total distance of 1078 metres, as shown
on Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of the permanent speed limit plans. 40 miles per hour
Roxton CP The realigned Bedford Road, starting at the Black Cat junction
circulatory to the point 1357 metres southwest of the Black Cat junction
circulatory for a total distance of 1357 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the
permanent speed limit plans. 40 miles per hour     Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP,       Roxton CP     The A1 Services link starting at the Black
Cat junction circulatory to the point 857 metres north of the Black Cat
junction circulatory for a total distance of 857 metres, as shown on Sheet 1
and 2 of the permanent speed limit plans. 40 miles per hour Roxton CP The
Kelpie Marina access track, starting at its junction with the realigned
Bedford Road to the point 407 metres south of the junction for a total
distance of 407 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the permanent speed limit
plans. 40 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Chawston Lane,
starting at the point 115 metres east of its junction with the Roxton Road
link (south) to the point 90 metres west of its junction with Roxton Road link
(south) for a total distance of 205 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the
permanent speed limit plans. 30 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP The Roxton Road link (north) between Chawston Lane and The Lane, starting
at the intersection with Chawston Lane to the point where it meets the
existing The Lane for a total distance of 669 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of
the permanent speed limit plans. 30 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP The Nagshead Lane link between the existing Nagshead Lane and the
Roxton Road link (north) for a total distance of 157 metres, as shown on Sheet
2 of the permanent speed limit plans. 30 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP The new road from Nagshead Lane link starting at the point 52
metres north along the Nagshead Lane link to the point 44 metres to the east,
including the turning head access to private property No. 32 for a total
distance of 74 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the permanent speed limit plans.
30 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The existing Nagshead Lane
starting at its intersection with the Roxton Road link (north) for a total
distance of 109 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the permanent speed limit
plans. 30 miles per hour Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The realigned The
Lane starting at the 5 metres west of its intersection with the A1, to a point
102 metres to the west, as shown on Sheet 2 of the permanent speed limit
plans. 30 miles per hour Tempsford CP The realigned existing Barford Road
starting at the point 651 metres north of the centre of the new dual
carriageway to the point 659 metres south of the centre of the new dual
carriageway for a total distance of 1310 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The realigned
Potton Road starting at the junction with the realigned B1046 to the point 444
metres south for a total distance of 444 metres, as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of
the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The
realigned B1046 starting at the point 665 metres west of the centre of the new
dual carriageway to the point 718 metres east of the centre of the new dual
carriageway for a total distance of 1383 metres, as shown on Sheet 6 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The emergency
access road between its junctions with the realigned B1046 and the new dual
carriageway (northbound) for a total distance of 315 metres, as shown on Sheet
6 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The
emergency access road between its junctions with the realigned B1046 and the
new dual carriageway (southbound) for a total distance of 379 metres, as shown
on Sheet 6 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley
CP The Cambridge Road junction eastbound off-slip road, starting from the
diverge with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) to the point where it meets
the new Cambridge Road junction north roundabout for a total distance of 313
metres, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the permanent speed limit plans.
National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction westbound on-
slip road, starting from the Cambridge Road junction south roundabout to the
point where it merges with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) for a total
distance of 420 metres, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the permanent speed
limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The realigned A428, starting at
the east side of the existing Cambridge Road roundabout to the point where it
meets the Cambridge Road junction north roundabout for a total distance of 320
metres, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the permanent speed limit plans.
National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction eastbound on-
slip road, starting from the Cambridge Road junction north roundabout to the
point where it merges with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) for a total
distance of 479 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction westbound
off-slip road, starting from the diverge with the new dual carriageway
(westbound) to the point where it meets the Cambridge Road junction south
roundabout for a total distance of 630 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge
Road junction north roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory
carriageway for a total distance of 175 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge
Road junction south roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory
carriageway for a total distance of 187 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge
Road junction dumbbell link road (northbound) starting from the Cambridge Road
junction south roundabout to the Cambridge Road junction north roundabout for
a total distance of 142 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the permanent speed
limit plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction
dumbbell link road (southbound) starting from the Cambridge Road junction
north roundabout to the Cambridge Road junction south roundabout for a total
distance of 143 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Abbotsley CP The realigned existing A428, starting
at the Cambridge Road junction south roundabout to the point 374 metres east
of the Cambridge Road junction south roundabout for a total distance of 374
metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed
Limit Croxton CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP The realigned Toseland Road,
starting at the point 476 metres north of the centre of the new dual
carriageway to the point 494 metres south of the centre of the new dual
carriageway for a total distance of 970 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Croxton CP, Toseland CP,
Yelling CP The emergency access road between its junctions with the realigned
Toseland Road and the new dual carriageway (eastbound) for a total distance of
227 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of the permanent speed limit plans. National
Speed Limit Croxton CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP The emergency access road
between its junctions with the realigned Toseland Road and the new dual
carriageway (westbound) for a total distance of 318 metres, as shown on Sheet
11 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Eltisley CP The
realigned A428 starting at Eltisley link south roundabout to the point 681
metres west of the Eltisley link south roundabout for a total distance of 681
metres, as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the permanent speed limit plans.
National Speed Limit Eltisley CP The Eltisley link north roundabout, the whole
length of the circulatory carriageway for a total distance of 138 metres, as
shown on Sheet 13 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Eltisley CP The Eltisley link south roundabout, the whole length of the
circulatory carriageway for a total distance of 162 metres, as shown on Sheet
13 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Eltisley CP The
realigned A428 between the Eltisley link north and south roundabouts for a
total distance of 242 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the permanent speed
limit plans. National Speed Limit Eltisley CP The realigned A428 starting at
the east side of the Eltisley link north roundabout to the point 725 metres
east of the Eltisley link north roundabout for a total distance of 725 metres,
as shown on Sheet 13 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Eltisley CP The realigned B1040 starting at the north side of the Eltisley
link north roundabout to the point 268 metres north of the Eltisley link north
roundabout for a total distance of 268 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Eltisley CP The realigned
Cambridge Road starting at the south side of the Eltisley link south
roundabout to the point 178 metres south of the Eltisley link south roundabout
for a total distance of 178 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the permanent
speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Caxton CP The realigned A428 starting
at the Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout to the point 866 metres west of
the Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout for a total distance of 866
metres, as shown on Sheets 14 and 13 of the permanent speed limit plans.
National Speed Limit Caxton CP The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound off-slip
road, starting from the diverge with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) to
the point where it meets the Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout for a
total distance of 768 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed
limit plans. National Speed Limit Elsworth CP The Caxton Gibbet junction
eastbound on-slip road, starting from the Caxton Gibbet junction north
roundabout to the point where it merges with the new dual carriageway
(eastbound) for a total distance of 607 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Cambourne CP,Elsworth CP The
Caxton Gibbet junction westbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge with
the new dual carriageway (westbound) to the point where it meets the Caxton
Gibbet junction south roundabout for a total distance of 719 metres, as shown
on Sheets 14 and 15 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound on-slip
road, starting from the Caxton Gibbet junction south west roundabout to the
point where it merges with the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a total
distance of 497 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Elsworth CP, Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet
junction dumbbell link road (northbound) between the Caxton Gibbet junction
north and south roundabouts for a total distance of 149 metres, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Elsworth CP,
Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction dumbbell link road (southbound)
between the Caxton Gibbet junction north and south roundabouts for a total
distance of 149 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Elsworth CP, Papworth Everard CP The realigned
A1198, starting at the north side of the Caxton Gibbet junction north
roundabout to the point 255 metres north for a total distance of 255 metres,
as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Cambourne CP, Papworth Everard CP The realigned existing A1198, starting at
the south side of the Caxton Gibbet junction south roundabout to the point 72
metres south for a total distance of 72 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Elsworth CP, Papworth
Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout, the whole length of
the circulatory carriageway for a total distance of 224 metres, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Cambourne
CP, Elsworth CP, Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction south
roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a total
distance of 202 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit
plans. National Speed Limit Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet
junction south west roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory
carriageway for a total distance of 131 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the
permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit Papworth Everard CP The
Caxton Gibbet junction south west link road (westbound) between Caxton Gibbet
junction south and south west roundabouts for a total distance of 183 metres,
as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent speed limit plans. National Speed Limit
Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction south west link road
(eastbound) between Caxton Gibbet junction south west and south roundabouts
for a total distance of 182 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the permanent
speed limit plans. National Speed Limit

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

In this Part of this Schedule, “ authorised vehicle ” has the same meaning as
that given in article 14(16). (1) Parish(es) (2) Road name, number and length
(3) Measures Roxton CP, Tempsford CP, Little Barford CP, Abbotsley CP,
Toseland CP, Yelling CP, Croxton CP, Eltisley CP, Caxton CP, Papworth Everard
CP, Elsworth CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP, Cambourne CP The new dual
carriageway (eastbound) from point AA on Sheet 1 to point OA on Sheet 15 as
shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 18825 metres.   Clearway
(to include verges and hard strips, but to exclude lay-bys)   Roxton CP,
Tempsford CP, Little Barford CP, Abbotsley CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP,
Croxton CP, Eltisley CP, Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP, Cambourne CP The new dual carriageway
(westbound) from point AS on Sheet 1 to point OB on Sheet 15 as shown on
Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 18825 metres.   Clearway
(to include verges and hard strips, but to exclude lay-bys)   Roxton CP,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Reference AT The whole length of Black Cat
junction circulatory on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for
a total distance of 669 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat junction eastbound off-slip
road from point AB to point AD on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 615 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The A421 segregated left turn
lane from point AC to point AE on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulations measures
plans, for a total distance of 197 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Roxton CP The Black Cat junction eastbound on-slip road from
point AI on Sheet 1 to point CA on Sheet 3 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 271 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Roxton CP The Black Cat junction westbound off-slip road from
point AJ on Sheet 1 to point CB on Sheet 3 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 381 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat
junction westbound on-slip road from point AQ to point AR on Sheets 1 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 430 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP The realigned A1 (northbound) from point AN on Sheet 1 to point BB
on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of
1767 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Roxton CP, Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP The realigned A1 (southbound) from point AM on Sheet 1
to point BC on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 1761 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat junction northbound on-slip
road from point AF on Sheet 1 to point BA on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 802 metres. Clearway (to include
verges and hard strips) Roxton CP The Black Cat junction northbound off-slip
road from point AO to point AP on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 205 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Roxton CP The Black Cat junction southbound on-slip road from
point AK to point AL on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for
a total distance of 342 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The Black Cat junction southbound off-slip
road from point AH on Sheet 1 to point AG on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 276 metres. Clearway (to include
verges and hard strips) Roxton CP Reference A The Black Cat junction
northbound off-slip road (access from Black Cat junction circulatory to the
Black Cat junction northbound off-slip road) as shown on Sheet 1 of the
traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry) Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP Reference B The Black Cat junction eastbound off-slip road (access
from Black Cat junction circulatory to the Black Cat junction eastbound off-
slip road) as shown on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans.
Prohibition (No Entry) Roxton CP Reference C The Black Cat junction southbound
off-slip road (access from Black Cat junction circulatory to the Black Cat
junction southbound off-slip road) as shown on Sheet 1 of the traffic
regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry) Roxton CP Reference D The
Black Cat junction westbound off-slip road (access from Black Cat junction
circulatory to the Black Cat junction westbound off-slip road) as shown on
Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry)
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The A1 Services link from point AU on Sheet 1
to point BD on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 857 metres. Red Route Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Reference E The A1 Services link (access from
its intersection with Old Great North Road in a northerly direction) as shown
on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry)
Abbotsley CP Reference F The emergency access road from realigned B1046 onto
the new dual carriageway (northbound) as shown on Sheet 6 of the traffic
regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except for an authorised
vehicle and in the case of an emergency Abbotsley CP Reference G The emergency
access road from realigned B1046 onto the new dual carriageway (northbound) as
shown on Sheet 6 of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No
Entry); except in the case of an emergency Abbotsley CP Reference H The
emergency access road from the new dual carriageway (northbound) onto
realigned B1046 as shown on Sheet 6 of the traffic regulation measures plans.
Prohibition (No Entry); except in the case of an emergency Abbotsley CP
Reference I The emergency access road from the new dual carriageway
(southbound) onto realigned B1046 as shown on Sheet 6 of the traffic
regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except in the case of an
emergency Abbotsley CP Reference J The emergency access road from the
realigned B1046 onto the new dual carriageway (southbound) as shown on Sheet 6
of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except in
the case of an emergency Abbotsley CP Reference K The emergency access road
from realigned B1046 onto the new dual carriageway (southbound) shown on Sheet
6 of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except for
an authorised vehicle and in the case of an emergency Abbotsley CP The
Cambridge Road junction eastbound off-slip road from point HA on Sheet 8 to
point IA on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 260 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley
CP The Cambridge Road junction westbound on-slip road from point HB on Sheet 8
to point IF on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 339 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley
CP The Cambridge Road junction eastbound on-slip road from point IB to point
IC on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance
of 410 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP The
Cambridge Road junction westbound off-slip road from point ID to point IE on
Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 341
metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP Reference IG
The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at Cambridge Road junction
north roundabout on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a
total distance of 175 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Abbotsley CP Reference IH The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at
Cambridge Road junction south roundabout on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 187 metres. Clearway (to include
verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction dumbbell link
road (northbound) from point II to point IJ on Sheet 9 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 142 metres. Clearway (to
include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP The Cambridge Road junction
dumbbell link road (southbound) from point IK to point IL on Sheet 9 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 143 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP The realigned A428
carriageway from point IM to point IN on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 374 metres. Clearway (to include
verges and hard strips) Abbotsley CP The realigned A428 from point IP on Sheet
8 to point IO on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 110 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Abbotsley
CP Reference L The Cambridge Road junction eastbound off-slip road (access
from Cambridge Road junction north roundabout to the Cambridge Road junction
eastbound off-slip road) as shown on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation
measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry) Abbotsley CP Reference M The Cambridge
Road junction westbound off-slip road (access from Cambridge Road junction
south roundabout to the Cambridge Road junction westbound off-slip road) as
shown on Sheet 9 of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No
Entry) Croxton CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP Reference N The emergency access
road from the realigned Toseland Road onto the new dual carriageway
(eastbound) as shown on Sheet 11 of the traffic regulation measures plans.
Prohibition (No Entry); except in the case of an emergency Croxton CP,
Toseland CP, Yelling CP Reference O The emergency access road from the new
dual carriageway (eastbound) onto realigned Toseland Road as shown on Sheet 11
of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except in
the case of an emergency Croxton CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP Reference P The
emergency access road from the new dual carriageway (westbound) onto realigned
Toseland Road as shown on Sheet 11 of the traffic regulation measures plans.
Prohibition (No Entry); except in the case of an emergency Croxton CP,
Toseland CP, Yelling CP Reference Q The emergency access road from realigned
Toseland Road onto the new dual carriageway (westbound) as shown on Sheet 11
of the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except in
case of an emergency Croxton CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP Reference R The
emergency access road from realigned Toseland Road onto the new dual
carriageway (westbound) as shown on Sheet 11 of the traffic regulation
measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry); except for an authorised vehicle, and
in the case of an emergency Eltisley CP The realigned A428 from point LA on
Sheet 12 to point MK on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for
a total distance of 681 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips)
Eltisley CP, Yelling CP The realigned B1040 from point MA to point MB on Sheet
13 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 23
metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Eltisley CP Reference MC
The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at Eltisley link north
roundabout on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 138 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Eltisley
CP Reference MH The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at Eltisley
link south roundabout on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans,
for a total distance of 162 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard
strips) Eltisley CP The realigned A428 from point MI to point MJ on Sheet 13
of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 242 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Eltisley CP The realigned
Cambridge Road from point MF to point MG on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 23 metres. Clearway (to include verges
and hard strips) Eltisley CP The realigned A428 from point MD to point ME on
Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 724
metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Caxton CP, Eltisley CP,
Papworth Everard CP The realigned A428 from point NA on Sheet 13 to point NB
on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of
867 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP,
Caxton CP The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound off-slip road from point NX to
point NY on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 691 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Elsworth
CP The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound on-slip road from point NG to point NH
on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of
498 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Elsworth CP The
Caxton Gibbet junction westbound off-slip road from point NJ to point NI on
Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 511
metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP,
Caxton CP The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound on-slip road from point NW to
point NV on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total
distance of 455 metres. Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth
Everard CP, Elsworth CP Reference NF The whole length of new circulatory
carriageway at Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout on Sheet 14 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 224 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP
Reference NK The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at Caxton Gibbet
junction south roundabout on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 202 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Elsworth CP The Caxton Gibbet junction dumbbell link road
(northbound) from point NO to point NN on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, for a total distance of 149 metres. Clearway (to include
verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP The Caxton Gibbet
junction dumbbell link road (southbound) from point NM to point NL on Sheet 14
of the traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 149 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP, Caxton CP
Reference NT The whole length of new circulatory carriageway at Caxton Gibbet
junction southwest roundabout on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 131 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction south west link
road (westbound) from point NP to point NR on Sheet 14 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 183 metres. Clearway (to
include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP The Caxton Gibbet junction
south west link road (eastbound) from point NQ to point NS on Sheet 14 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, for a total distance of 182 metres.
Clearway (to include verges and hard strips) Papworth Everard CP The realigned
A1198 from point NC to point ND on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, for a total distance of 255 metres. Clearway (to include verges and
hard strips) Papworth Everard CP Reference S The Caxton Gibbet junction
eastbound off-slip road (access from Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout
to the Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound off-slip road) as shown on Sheet 14 of
the traffic regulation measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry) Elsworth CP
Reference T The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound off-slip road (access from
Caxton Gibbet junction south roundabout to the Caxton Gibbet junction
westbound off-slip road) as shown on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation
measures plans. Prohibition (No Entry)

##### REVOCATIONS & VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDERS

          (1)       Parishes         (2)         Road name, number and length
(3)         Title of Order         (4)         Revocations or Variations
Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A421 eastbound
carriageway from point A01 to point A02 on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, a total distance of 1277 metres. The A421 road (Great Barford
bypass, Bedfordshire) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2006. Clearway order to be
varied, removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Roxton
CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A421 westbound carriageway from
point A10 to point A11 on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a
total distance of 1251 metres. The A421 road (Great Barford bypass,
Bedfordshire) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2006. Clearway order to be varied,
removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A1 northbound carriageway from point A03 on
Sheet 1 to point B01 on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a
total distance of 1096 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied,
removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Roxton CP,
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A1 southbound carriageway from point
A04 on Sheet 1 to point B02 on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, a total distance of 1076 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be
varied, removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Roxton
CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP The whole length of the circulatory
carriageway of the existing Black Cat roundabout, point A05 on Sheet 1 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 359 metres. Order not
cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length, at the point stated in
column (2). Roxton CP Existing A1 southbound carriageway from point A06 to
point A07 on Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total
distance of 645 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing
the length, between the points stated in column (2). Roxton CP Existing A1
northbound carriageway from point A08 to point A09 on Sheet 1 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, a total distance of 599 metres. Order not cited
Clearway order to be varied, removing the length, between the points stated in
column (2). Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A1 northbound
carriageway from point A03 on Sheet 1 to point B01 on Sheet 2 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, a total distance of 1096 metres. The A1 Trunk Road
(Tempsford - Wyboston, Bedfordshire) (60 miles per hour speed limit) Order
2003. Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length, between the points
stated in column (2). Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A1
northbound carriageway from point A08 to point A09 on Sheet 1 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, a total distance of 599 metres. The A1 Trunk Road
(Tempsford – Wyboston, Bedfordshire) (60 miles per hour speed limit) Order
2003. Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length, between the points
stated in column (2). Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing A1
southbound carriageway from point A04 on Sheet 1 to point B02 on Sheet 2 of
the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 1076 metres. The A1
Trunk Road (Tempsford – Wyboston, Bedfordshire) (60 miles per hour speed
limit) Order 2003. Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP Existing A1 southbound carriageway from point A06 to point A07 on
Sheet 1 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 645
metres. The A1 Trunk Road (Tempsford – Wyboston, Bedfordshire) (60 miles per
hour speed limit) Order 2003. Speed limit order to be varied, removing the
length, between the points stated in column (2). Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP Existing Black Cat roundabout at point A05 on Sheet 1 of the
traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 359 metres. The A1
Trunk Road (Tempsford – Wyboston, Bedfordshire) (60 miles per hour speed
limit) Order 2003. Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Existing Chawston Lane from point B05 to point B06 on Sheet 2 of the traffic
regulation measures plans, a total distance of 212 metres. Order not cited
Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length, between the points stated
in column (2). Wyboston, Chawston & Colesdon CP     Reference 1       Travel
Lodge Bedford Wyboston at existing Black Cat roundabout as shown on Sheet 1 of
traffic regulation measures plans.     The A421 trunk road (Black Cat
roundabout, Roxton, Bedfordshire) (Prohibition of entry and right turn) Order
1999 No. 1186 . Orders to be revoked (No Right Turn and No Entry). Roxton CP
Reference 2       Existing A1 northbound carriageway at School Lane, Roxton as
shown on Sheet 1 of traffic measures plans.     Order not cited Order to be
revoked (No entry). Wyboston, Chawston 7 Colesden CP Existing Nagshead Lane
from point B07 to point B08 on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures
plans, a total distance of 102 metres. Order not cited Speed limit order to be
varied, removing the length, between the points stated in column (2).
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Existing The Lane from point B03 to point B04
on Sheet 2 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 166
metres. Order not cited Speed limit order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP Existing B1040
carriageway from point L03 to point L05 on Sheet 12 of the traffic regulation
measures plans, a total distance of 56 metres. Order not cited Clearway order
to be varied, removing the length, between the points stated in column (2).
Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard CP, Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from
point I01 on Sheet 9 to point I02 on Sheet 8 of the traffic regulation measure
plans, a total distance of 903 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be
varied, removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley
CP, Papworth Everard CP, Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point L01
on Sheet 12 to point M03 on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans,
a total distance of 1421 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied,
removing the length, between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP,
Papworth Everard CP, Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point L02 to
point L05 on Sheet 12 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total
distance of 32 metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing
the length, between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP, Papworth
Everard CP, Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point L04 to point L05
on Sheet 12 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 55
metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard CP,
Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point L05 on Sheet 12 to point M01
on Sheet 13 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 49
metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard CP,
Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point N01 on Sheet 13 to point N06
on Sheet 14 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 843
metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard CP,
Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point N04 on Sheet 14 to point O01
on Sheet 15 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 867
metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2). Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard CP,
Abbotsley CP Existing A428 carriageway from point N05 on Sheet 14 to point O02
on Sheet 15 of the traffic regulation measures plans, a total distance of 859
metres. Order not cited Clearway order to be varied, removing the length,
between the points stated in column (2).

##### FOOTPATHS, CYCLE TRACKS, FOOTWAYS, BRIDLEPATHS AND BRIDLEWAYS

(1) Area (2) Length of Footpath/Cycle Track/Footway/Bridlepath/Bridleway
Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP 415 metres
of footpath from point 1/1 to point 1/2 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP, Roxton CP 1197 metres of cycle track from point 1/3 to
point 1/4 to point 1/5 to point 1/6 to point 1/7 to point 1/8 to point 1/9 to
point 1/10 to point 1/11 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP 1079 metres of cycle track from point 1/16 to point 1/17 to point 1/18 to
point 2/1 as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Roxton CP 394 metres of bridleway
from point 1/12 to point 1/13 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Roxton CP 511 metres
of bridleway from point 1/14 to point 1/15 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, 419 metres
of footway from point 1/19 to point 2/10 to point 2/11 to point 2/12 as shown
on Sheets 1 and 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP 428 metres of cycle track from point 2/2 to point 2/3
as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bedford
Borough Unitary Authority, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP 78 metres of cycle
track from point 2/4 to point 2/5 as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Bedford Borough Unitary Authority, Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP 171 metres of cycle track from point 2/6 to point 2/7 as shown
on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Bedford Borough
Unitary Authority, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP 110 metres of footway from
point 2/8 to point 2/9, as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 310 metres of
footpath from point 6/1 to point 6/2 to point 6/3 as shown on Sheet 6 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Abbotsley CP 1406 metres of footpath from point 6/2 to point 8/1 to point 8/3
as shown on Sheets 6 and 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 160 metres of footpath from point
8/1 to point 8/2 as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP, St. Neots CP 372 metres of
cycle track from point 8/4 to point 9/1 as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Abbotsley CP 45 metres of cycle track from point 9/2 to point 9/3 as shown on
Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County
Council, Abbotsley CP 191 metres of cycle track from point 9/4 to point 9/5 as
shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 228 metres of cycle track from
point 9/6 to point 9/7 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 101 metres of cycle
track from point 9/8 to point 9/9 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 58 metres
of cycle track from point 9/10 to point 9/11 as shown on Sheet 9 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Abbotsley CP   552 metres of bridleway from point 9/12 to point 10/1 as shown
on Sheets 9 and 10 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP   60 metres of bridlepath from
point 9/13 to point 9/14 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.   Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley CP 8 metres of
bridlepath from point 9/15 to 9/16 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Croxton CP 309 metres
of footway from point 11/1 to point 11/2 as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Croxton CP 62
metres of footway from point 11/3 to point 11/4 as shown on Sheet 11 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,Yelling
CP 489 metres of footpath from point 11/5 to point 11/6 as shown on Sheet 11
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP 1033 metres of footway from point 11/6 to
point 11/7 to point 11/8 to point 11/9 to point 11/10 to point 11/12 to point
11/13 to point 11/14 to point 11/15 to point 11/16 to point 11/17 as shown on
Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County
Council, Yelling CP 487 metres of footpath from point 11/17 to point 11/18 as
shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP 32 metres
of footway from point 11/9 to point 11/11 as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP 31 metres
of footway from point 11/12 to point 11/14 as shown on Sheet 11 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Eltisley CP 200 metres of bridleway from point 12/1 to point 12/2 as shown on
Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County
Council, Eltisley CP 1321 metres of cycle track from point 13/1 to point 13/2
to point 13/3 to point 13/4 as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Eltisley CP, Papworth Everard
CP, Elsworth CP 975 metres of cycle track from point 13/5 to point 14/12 to
point 14/13 to point 14/1 to point 14/2 to point 14/3 as shown on Sheets 13
and 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County
Council, Elsworth CP 975 metres of bridleway from point 14/5 to point 15/1 as
shown on Sheets 14 and 15 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Elsworth CP, Papworth Everard CP 299 metres of
bridlepath from point 14/4 to 14/5 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Elsworth CP, Cambourne
CP 373 metres of cycle track from point 14/5 to point 14/14 to point 14/15 to
point 14/16 to point 14/17 to point 14/6 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council, Caxton CP 149
metres of cycle track from point 14/7 to point 14/8 as shown on Sheet 14 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council,
Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP 25 metres of footway from point 14/8 to point
14/9 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Cambridgeshire County Council, Papworth Everard CP 41 metres of footway from
point 14/10 to point 14/11 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.

##### ROADS TO BE DE-TRUNKED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of Road
Cambridgeshire County Council, St. Neots CP, Abbotsley CP Existing A428
carriageway between point A on Sheet 7 and point B on Sheet 9, inclusive of
the roundabouts, as shown on Sheets 6, 7, 8 and 9 of the de-trunking plans,
for a total length of 5258 metres. Cambridgeshire County Council, Abbotsley
CP, Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP Existing A428 carriageway between
point E on Sheet 9 and point F on Sheet 12 as shown on Sheets 9, 10, 11 and 12
of the de-trunking plans, for a total length of 5498 metres. Cambridgeshire
County Council, Eltisley CP Existing A428 carriageway between point G on sheet
13 and point H as shown on Sheet 14 of the de-trunking plans, for a total
length of 1169 metres. Cambridgeshire County Council, Eltisley CP Existing
A428 carriageway between point I on sheet 13 and point J as shown on Sheet 13
of the de-trunking plans, for a total length of 89 metres. Cambridgeshire
County Council, Eltisley CP, Caxton CP Existing A428 carriageway between point
K on sheet 14 and point L as shown on Sheet 14 of the de-trunking plans, for a
total length of 300 metres.

  PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS AND PROVISION
OF NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

Articles 17 and 28

  In relating this Schedule to the streets, rights of way and access plans,
the provisions described in this Schedule are shown on the streets, rights of
way and access plans in the following manner—     a     Existing highways
which are to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of
this Schedule, are shown by thick black diagonal hatching (as shown in the key
on the streets, rights of way and access plans) over the extent of the area to
be stopped up, which is described in column (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of this
Schedule and are given a reference label (an upper case letter and a number in
a circle).         b     New highways which are to be substituted for a
highway to be stopped up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are
specified in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule, are shown by red cross-
hatching (for trunk roads), blue cross-hatching (for other classified roads
and highways) and solid blue shading (for footpaths, footways, cycle tracks,
bridlepaths and bridleways) (as shown in the key on the streets, rights of way
and access plans). New trunk roads, classified roads and unclassified roads)
are given a reference label (two capital letters in a circle) and new
footways, footpaths, cycle tracks or bridleways are given a reference label
(two numbers in a circle) (as shown in the key on the streets, rights of way
and access plans) with the specific type of way identified by the word
“footpath”, “bridleway”, “bridlepath”, “footway” or “cycle track” beneath its
reference letter shown in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule.         c
Private means of access to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts
3 and 4 of this Schedule, are shown by solid black shading (as shown in the
key on the streets, rights of way and access plans) over the extent of
stopping up described in column (3) of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, and are
given a reference label (a number and a lower case letter in a circle).
d     New private means of access to be substituted for a private means of
access to be stopped up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are
specified in column (4) of Part 4 of this Schedule, are shown by yellow
crosshatching (as shown in the key on the streets, rights of way and access
plans) and are given a reference label (a number in a circle).

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Footpath No. 36 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Footpath from point a/3 to point a/5 for a total distance of 130 metres
as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP Footpath No. 7 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Existing footpath No.7 from point a/1 and
point a/2, a total distance of 104 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference
A11       Existing Black Cat roundabout as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Existing Black Cat roundabout for a
distance of 352 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Footpath No. 8 as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Footpath from point
a/4 to point a/6 for a total distance of 147 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Cambridgeshire County Council &
Abbotsley CP Footpath No. 1/11 as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans. Footpath from point e/1 to e/2 for a total distance of
8m as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New highway to be
substituted/provided       Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Roxton
Road     Reference A1       The existing Roxton Road starting at the junction
with Bedford Road to a point 368 metres north, as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference AG and AE       The
realigned Roxton Road, starting at its junction with the existing Bedford Road
in a northerly direction for a total distance of 502 metres, as shown on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference AF       The
Roxton Road roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory carriageway a
distance of 89 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Roxton CP Bedford Road     Reference A2       The existing
Bedford Road starting at a point 48 metres west of the existing Black Cat
roundabout to a point 123 metres west, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.         Reference AT       The realigned
Bedford Road, starting at the southwest corner of the Black Cat junction
circulatory in a westerly direction for a distance of 603 metres, as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP Unnamed
road     Reference A3       The existing unnamed road, starting at the
southeast corner of the existing Black Cat roundabout to a point 26 metres
east, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference AV       The new unnamed road, starting at the southeast corner of
the Black Cat junction circulatory in a southerly direction for a distance of
21 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP A1 (southbound)     Reference A4
The existing A1 (southbound) starting at the existing Black Cat roundabout to
a point 196 metres south, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.         Reference AQ and AJ       The realigned A1
(southbound) starting at the point 1063 metres north of the centre line of the
new dual carriageway as it crosses the A1 (southbound) to the point 698 metres
south of the centre line of the new dual carriageway as it crosses the A1
(southbound) for a total distance of 1761 metres as shown on Sheet 1 and Sheet
2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference AP       The
Black Cat junction southbound on-slip road starting at Black Cat junction
circulatory to the point where it merges with the realigned A1 (southbound)
for a distance of 631 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.         Roxton CP,       Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP     A1 (northbound)     Reference A6       The existing A1 (northbound)
starting at a point 600 metres south of the existing Black Cat roundabout to a
point 154 metres north of the existing Black Cat roundabout as shown on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference AR and AI
The realigned A1 (northbound)) starting at the point 700 metres south of the
centre line of the new dual carriageway as it crosses the A1 (northbound) to
the point 1067 metres north of the centre line of the new dual carriageway as
it crosses the A1 (northbound) for a total distance of 1767 metres as shown on
Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference AS       The Black Cat junction northbound off-slip road, starting
from the diverge with the realigned A1 (northbound) to the point where it
meets the Black Cat junction circulatory for a distance of 496 metres, as
shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference AD       The Black Cat junction northbound on-slip road starting at
Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it merges with the realigned
A1 (northbound) for a distance of 790 metres, as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP A1 (southbound)     Reference A7       The existing A1
(southbound) starting at a point 247 north of the existing Black Cat
roundabout to the Black Cat roundabout as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.         Reference AK       The Black Cat
junction southbound off-slip road starting from the diverge with the realigned
A1 (southbound) to the point where it meets the Black Cat junction circulatory
for a distance of 536 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP, Tempsford CP, Little Barford
CP, Abbotsley CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP, Croxton CP, Eltisley CP, Caxton CP,
Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP, Cambourne
CP A421 (eastbound)     Reference A9       The existing A421 (eastbound)
starting at a point 325 metres west of the existing Black Cat roundabout to
the existing Black Cat roundabout as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.         Reference AA       The new dual carriageway
(eastbound) starting at the point 801 metres west of the Roxton Road bridge to
the point 920 metres east of the Caxton Gibbet dumbbell link road for a total
distance of 18825 metres, as shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
13, 14 and 15 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference
AB       The Black Cat junction eastbound off-slip road, starting from the
diverge with new dual carriageway (eastbound) to the point where it meets the
Black Cat junction circulatory for a distance of 1147 metres, as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference AC
The A421 segregated left turn lane, starting from its diverge with the Black
Cat junction eastbound off-slip road to the point where it merges with the
Black Cat junction northbound on-slip road, for a distance of 361 metres, as
shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference AN       The Black Cat junction eastbound on-slip road, starting at
Black Cat junction circulatory to the point where it merges with the new dual
carriageway (eastbound), for a distance of 605 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP, Tempsford CP,
Little Barford CP, Abbotsley CP, Toseland CP, Yelling CP, Croxton CP, Eltisley
CP, Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP A421 (westbound)     Reference A8       The existing A421 (westbound)
starting at the existing Black Cat roundabout to a point 305 metres west as
shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference AW       The new dual carriageway (westbound) starting at the point
920 metres east of the Caxton Gibbet dumbbell link Road to the point 801
metres west of the Roxton Road bridge for a total distance of 18825 metres, as
shown on Sheets 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.       Reference AU       The Black Cat
junction westbound on-slip road, starting from the Black Cat junction
circulatory to the point where it merges with the new dual carriageway
(westbound), for a distance of 964 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.       Reference AO       The Black Cat
junction westbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge with the new dual
carriageway (westbound) to the point where it meets the Black Cat junction
circulatory , a distance of 599 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP - -     Reference AM       The Black Cat junction circulatory, a distance
of 670 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -     Reference AL
The A1 Services link starting at a point 857 metres north of the Black Cat
junction circulatory to the Black Cat junction circulatory for a distance of
857 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 and Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Roxton CP - -     Reference AX       New road starting at
its junction with the existing School Lane to the point 15 metres north, for a
distance of 15 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 1197 metres
of cycle track from point 1/3 to point 1/4 to point 1/5 to point 1/6 to point
1/7 to point 1/8 to point 1/9 to point 1/10 to point 1/11 as shown on Sheet 1
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Roxton CP - -     Reference AZ
The Kelpie Marina access road starting at its junction with the realigned
Bedford Road, to a point 407 metres south for a distance of 407 metres, as
shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP
School Lane     Reference A5       The existing School Lane starting at a
point 43 metres west of its junction with the A1 (northbound) to a point 482
metres west as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     511 metres of bridleway from point 1/14 to point 1/15 as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP Public Right of Way The existing footpath No.10 from point a/7 and
point a/8, a total distance of 106 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. 415 metres of footpath from point 1/1 to point
1/2 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 1079 metres of cycle track from point
1/16 to point 1/17 to point 1/18 to point 2/1 as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Roxton CP - - 394 metres of
bridleway from point 1/12 to point 1/13 as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 531
metres of footway from point 1/19 to point 2/10 to point 2/11 to point 2/12 as
shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Chawston Lane     Reference B1       The
existing Chawston Lane starting at its junction with the existing A1
(northbound) to a point 36 metres west of the junction as shown on Sheet 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference AH       The
Roxton Road link (south), starting at the eastern side of the Roxton Road
roundabout to the point where it intersects with Chawston Lane for a distance
of 1078 metres, as shown on Sheets 1 and 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.       Reference BA       Chawston Lane, starting at the point
104 metres east of its junction with new Roxton Road link (south) to the point
96 metres west for a distance of 200 metres, including a turning head at the
eastern end, as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP Nagshead Lane     Reference B3
The existing Nagshead Lane starting at its junction with the existing A1
(northbound) to a point 4 metres west as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.         Reference BB       The Roxton Road
link (north), starting at the intersection with the existing Chawston Lane to
the point where it meets the existing The Lane road for a distance of 669
metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference BD       The Nagshead Lane link between the existing Nagshead Lane
and the Roxton Road link (north) for a distance of 157 metres, as shown on
Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP The Lane     Reference B4       The existing The Lane starting
at its junction with the existing A1 (northbound) to a point 4 metres west, as
shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference BC       The realigned The Lane, starting at its intersection with
the Roxton Road link (north) in a south-easterly direction for a total
distance of 109 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -     Reference BE
The new road from Nagshead Lane link, including the turning head, starting at
the intersection with Nagshead Lane link in an easterly direction for a total
distance of 73 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 428 metres of cycle
track from point 2/2 to point 2/3 as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 69 metres of
cycle track from point 2/4 to point 2/5 as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - - 152
metres of cycle track from point 2/6 to point 2/7 as shown on Sheet 2 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -
Reference BF       The Great North Road (bus stop/staging area) starting at a
point 4 metres north of the A1 southbound pedestrian crossing from Footpath 33
in a southerly direction for a distance of 70 metres, as shown on Sheet 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden
CP - - 110 metres of footway from point 2/8 to point 2/9, as shown on Sheet 2
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Tempsford CP Barford Road
Reference C1       The existing Barford Road, starting at a point 502 metres
north of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point 611 metres south of
the centre of the new dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.         Reference CA       The realigned
Barford Road starting at the point 651 metres north of the centre of the new
dual carriageway to the point 659 metres south of the centre of the new dual
carriageway, a distance of 1310 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP Potton Road     Reference F1
The existing Potton Road, starting at a point 363 metres west of the centre of
the new dual carriageway to a point 155 metres east of the centre of the new
dual carriageway, as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.         Reference FB       The realigned Potton Road starting at
the junction with the realigned B1046 to the point 444 metres south for a
distance of 444 metres, as shown on Sheets 5 and 6 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP B1046     Reference F2       The
existing B1046, starting at a point 545 metres west of the centre of the new
dual carriageway to a point 98 metres east of the centre of the new dual
carriageway, as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference F3       The existing B1046, starting at a point 325
metres east of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point 607 metres
east of the centre of the new dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 6 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference FA       The
realigned B1046 starting at the point 665 metres west of the centre of the new
dual carriageway to the point 718 metres east of the centre of new dual
carriageway for a distance of 1383 metres, as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference FC
The emergency access road, starting at its intersection with the new dual
carriageway (southbound) to the point where it meets the realigned B1046 for a
distance of 379 metres, as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference FD       The emergency access
road, starting at its intersection with the new dual carriageway (northbound)
to the point where it meets the realigned B1046 for a distance of 315 metres,
as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Abbotsley CP Footpath The existing footpath 1/9 from point f/1 and point f/2,
a distance of 280 metres as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. 310 metres of footpath from point 6/1 to point 6/2 to point 6/3
as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley
CP Footpath     The existing footpath 1/20 from point f/3 and point f/4, a
distance of 516 metres as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.       The existing footpath 1/19 from point h/3 and point h/4, a
distance of 457 metres as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.       The existing footpath 1/17 from point h/1 and point h/2, a
distance of 120 metres as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     1406 metres of footpath from point 6/2 to point 8/1 to point
8/3 as shown on Sheets 6 and 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Abbotsley CP Footpath The existing footpath 1/16 from point h/5 and point h/6,
a distance of 404 metres as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. 160 metres of footpath from point 8/1 to point 8/2 as shown on
Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP, St.
Neots CP - - 372 metres of cycle track from point 8/4 to point 9/1 as shown on
Sheets 8 and 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP -
-     Reference IA       The Cambridge Road junction eastbound off-slip road,
starting from the diverge with new dual carriageway (eastbound) to the point
where it meets the Cambridge Road junction north roundabout for a distance of
477 metres, as shown on Sheet 8 and 9 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference IK       New carriageway forming the
north east arm of new Cambridge Road junction north roundabout for a total
distance of 9 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference ID       The Cambridge Road
junction eastbound on-slip road, starting from the Cambridge Road junction
north roundabout to the point where it merges with the new dual carriageway
(eastbound) for a distance of 734 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference IE       The
Cambridge Road junction westbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge
with the new dual carriageway (westbound) to the point where it meets the
Cambridge Road junction south roundabout for a distance of 856 metres, as
shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley
CP - -     Reference IJ       The Cambridge Road junction westbound on-slip
road, starting from the Cambridge Road junction south roundabout to the point
where it merges with the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a distance of
555 metres, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Abbotsley CP, St. Neots CP Existing A428     Reference I1
The existing A428 (including lay-bys) starting at a point 209 metres east of
the existing Cambridge Road roundabout to a point 126 metres east of this, as
shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference IB       The realigned A428 starting at the east side of the
existing Cambridge Road roundabout to the point where it meets the Cambridge
Road junction north roundabout for a distance of 349 metres, as shown on Sheet
8 and 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP
Existing A428     Reference I2       The existing A428 starting at a point 537
metres east of the existing Cambridge Road roundabout to a point 295 metres
east of this, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.         Reference IF       The realigned A428 starting at the Cambridge
Road junction south roundabout to the point 374 metres east for a distance of
374 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference IC       The Cambridge Road junction north roundabout,
the whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 175 metres,
as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference IG       The Cambridge Road junction south roundabout, the whole
length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 187 metres, as shown
on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference II
The Cambridge Road junction dumbbell link road (northbound) between the
Cambridge Road junction south and north roundabouts for a distance of 143
metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference IH       The Cambridge Road junction dumbbell link road (southbound)
between the Cambridge Road junction north and south roundabouts for a distance
of 143 metres, as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Abbotsley CP - - 45 metres of cycle track from point 9/2 to point
9/3 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Abbotsley CP - - 191 metres of cycle track from point 9/4 to point 9/5 as
shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP
- - 228 metres of cycle track from point 9/6 to point 9/7 as shown on Sheet 9
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP - - 101 metres of
cycle track from point 9/8 to point 9/9 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP - - 58 metres of cycle track from
point 9/10 to point 9/11 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Abbotsley CP Bridleway No. 1/18 The existing Bridleway No. 1/18
from point i/1 and point j/1, a distance of 425 metres as shown on Sheets 9
and 10 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. 552 metres of bridleway
from point 9/12 to point 10/1 as shown on Sheets 9 and 10 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP - - 8 metres of bridlepath from
point 9/15 to 9/16 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Abbotsley CP - - 60 metres of bridlepath from point 9/13 to
point 9/14 as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP Toseland Road     Reference K1       The
existing Toseland Road, starting at a point 236 metres north of the centre of
the new dual carriageway to a point 329 metres north of the centre of the new
dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.       Reference K2       The existing Toseland Road, starting at
a point 17 metres north of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point
47 metres north of the centre of the dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 11 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference K3       The
existing Toseland Road, starting a point 17 metres south of the centre of the
new dual carriageway to a point 29 metres south of the centre of the new dual
carriageway, as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference K4       The existing Toseland Road, starting at a
point 294 metres south of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point
418 metres south of the centre of the new dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet
11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference KA
The realigned Toseland Road starting at the point 476 metres north of the
centre of the new dual carriageway to the point 494 metres south of the centre
of new dual carriageway for a distance of 970 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Toseland CP,Croxton
CP,Yelling CP - -     Reference KB       The emergency access road starting
from its intersection with the new dual carriageway (eastbound) to the point
225 metres north of the centre of the new dual carriageway for a distance of
225 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference KC       The emergency access road starting from its
intersection with the new dual carriageway (westbound) to the point 328 metres
south of the centre of the new dual carriageway for a distance of 328 metres,
as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Croxton CP - - 309 metres of footway from point 11/1 to point 11/2 as shown on
Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Croxton CP - - 62
metres of footway from point 11/3 to point 11/4 as shown on Sheet 11 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Toseland CP, Croxton CP, Yelling CP
Footpath No. 278/7 The existing footpath 278/7 from point k/1 and point k/2
for a distance of 75 metres as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.     489 metres of footpath from point 11/5 to point 11/6 as
shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       1033
metres of footway from point 11/6 to point 11/7 to point 11/8 to point 11/9 to
point 11/10 to point 11/12 to point 11/13 to point 11/14 to point 11/15 to
point 11/16 to point 11/17 as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.       487 metres of footpath from point 11/17 to point 11/18
as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       32
metres of footway from point 11/9 to point 11/11 as shown on Sheet 11 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.       31 metres of footway from point
11/12 to point 11/14 as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Eltisley CP Bridleway No. 74/6 The existing Bridleway No.
74/6 from point l/1 and point l/2 for a distance of 180 metres as shown on
Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. 200 metres of
bridleway from point 12/1 to point 12/2 as shown on Sheet 12 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Eltisley CP B1040 carriageway     Reference L1
The existing B1040 starting at its intersection with the existing A428 to a
point 47 metres north as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.       Reference M1       The existing B1040, starting at
a point 372 metres north of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point
227 metres south, as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.         Reference MC       The realigned B1040 starting at
the Eltisley link north roundabout to the point 268 metres north for a
distance of 268 metres as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Eltisley CP - -     Reference MH       New carriageway
forming the north east arm of Eltisley link south roundabout for a total
distance of 13 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Eltisley CP Existing A428     Reference M2       The
existing A428 starting at a point 292 metres southwest of its intersection
with the existing B1040 to a point 228 metres northeast of its intersection
with the existing B1040, as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.       Reference M4       The existing A428, starting
at a point 89 metres southwest of its intersection with the centre of the new
dual carriageway to a point 406 metres southwest of its intersection with the
centre of the new dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.       Reference M5       The existing A428
starting at a point 50 metres northeast of its intersection with the centre of
the new dual carriageway to a point 150 metres northeast of its intersection
with the centre of the new dual carriageway, as shown on Sheet 13 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference MF       The
realigned A428 starting at the Eltisley link south roundabout to the point 681
metres west of the Eltisley link south roundabout for a distance of 681
metres, as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference MA       The Eltisley link south roundabout, the whole
length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 162 metres, as shown
on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference MG
The realigned A428 between Eltisley link north and south roundabouts for a
distance of 242 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.       Reference MB       The Eltisley link north roundabout, the
whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 138 metres, as
shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference MD       The realigned A428 starting at the Eltisley link north
roundabout to the point 725 metres east, for a distance of 725 metres as shown
on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley CP
Cambridge Road     Reference M3       The existing Cambridge Road, starting at
its intersection with the existing A428 to a point 33 metres south east, as
shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference ME       The realigned Cambridge Road starting at the Eltisley link
south roundabout to the point 178 metres south for a distance of 178 metres as
shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley
CP - - 1321 metres of cycle track from point 13/1 to point 13/2 to point 13/3
to point 13/4 as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans. Eltisley CP, Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP - - 975 metres of cycle
track from point 13/5 to point 14/12 to point 14/13 to point 14/1 to point
14/2 to point 14/3 as shown on Sheets 13 and 14 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference NA
The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge
with new dual carriageway (eastbound) to the point where it meets the Caxton
Gibbet junction north roundabout for a distance of 913 metres, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Caxton CP,
Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference NO       New carriageway forming the
north east arm of Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout for a total distance
of 12 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Papworth Everard CP, Caxton CP, Elsworth CP, Eltisley CP, Cambourne
CP Existing A428     Reference N1       The existing A428, starting at a point
535 metres west of the existing Caxton Gibbet roundabout to a point 160 metres
west, as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference N2       The existing A428, starting at a point 217 metres west of
the existing Caxton Gibbet roundabout to a point 103 metres west, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference NM
The realigned A428 starting at the west side of the Caxton Gibbet junction
north roundabout to the point 866 metres west for a distance of 866 metres, as
shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference NC       The Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout, the whole
length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 221 metres, as shown
on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference NK
The Caxton Gibbet junction dumbbell link road (southbound) between the Caxton
Gibbet junction north and south roundabouts for a distance of 149 metres as
shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference NL       The Caxton Gibbet junction dumbbell link road (northbound)
between the Caxton Gibbet junction north and south roundabouts for a distance
of 149 metres as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.       Reference NN       The Caxton Gibbet junction south roundabout,
the whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a distance of 192 metres,
as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Papworth Everard CP, Elsworth CP - -     Reference NB       The realigned
A1198 Ermine Street starting at the Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout to
the point 255 metres north for a distance of 255 metres as shown on Sheet 14
of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Elsworth CP Existing A428
Reference N3       The existing A428, starting at the east side of the
existing Caxton Gibbet roundabout to a point 462 metres east, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.         Reference ND
The Caxton Gibbet junction eastbound on-slip road, starting from the Caxton
Gibbet junction north roundabout to the point where it merges with the new
dual carriageway (eastbound) for a distance of 737 metres, as shown on Sheet
14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference NE
The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound off-slip road, starting from the diverge
with new dual carriageway (westbound) to the point where it meets the Caxton
Gibbet junction south roundabout for a distance of 731 metres, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Caxton CP,
Elsworth CP, Cambourne CP - -     Reference NF       The realigned A1198
Ermine Street starting at the Caxton Gibbet junction south roundabout to the
point 75 metres south for a distance of 75 metres as shown on Sheet 14 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Papworth Everard CP - -
Reference NG       The Caxton Gibbet junction south west link road (westbound)
between the Caxton Gibbet junction south and south west roundabouts for a
distance of 183 metres as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference NH       The Caxton
Gibbet junction south west link road (eastbound) between the Caxton Gibbet
junction south west and south roundabouts for a distance of 183 metres as
shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Caxton
CP, Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference NI       The Caxton Gibbet junction
south west roundabout, the whole length of the circulatory carriageway for a
distance of 131 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Caxton CP, Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference NJ
The Caxton Gibbet junction westbound on-slip road, starting from the Caxton
Gibbet junction south west roundabout to the point where it merges with the
new dual carriageway (westbound) for a distance of 683 metres, as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Elsworth CP - -
975 metres of bridleway from point 14/5 to point 15/1 as shown on Sheets 14
and 15 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Elsworth CP, Papworth
Everard CP - - 299 metres of bridlepath from point 14/4 to 14/5 as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Elsworth CP,
Cambourne CP - - 373 metres of cycle track from point 14/5 to point 14/14 to
point 14/15 to point 14/16 to point 14/17 to point 14/6 as shown on Sheet 14
of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Caxton CP - - 149 metres of
cycle track from point 14/7 to point 14/8 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Papworth Everard CP, Caxton CP - - 25 metres
of footway from point 14/8 to point 14/9 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans. Papworth Everard CP - - 41 metres of footway
from point 14/10 to point 14/11 as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped up         (3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New
private means of access to be substituted or provided       Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP     Reference 1/a       The existing private means of access
alongside the existing A421 (eastbound) to Roxton Road.     For a distance of
875 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference 1       The realigned private means of access to the adjacent land
alongside the new dual carriageway (eastbound) and realigned Roxton Road for a
distance of 885 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -     Reference 2
The new private means of access to adjacent land off the Roxton Road link
(south) for a distance of 49 metres, as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Reference 1/e       The existing private means of access to business off the
existing A1 (northbound).     Whole access to property as shown on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 3       The new
private means of access to business off the Roxton Road link (south) for a
distance of 33 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -     Reference 4
The new private means of access to adjacent land off the Roxton Road link
(south) for a distance of 12 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference
1/g and 1/j       The existing private means of access to adjacent land off
the existing A1 (southbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 5       The
new private means of access to the adjacent land off the A1 Services link for
a distance of 4 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Roxton CP, Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP - -
Reference 6       The new private means of access to the underside of the new
River Great Ouse viaduct off the A1 Services link for a distance of 734 metres
as shown on Sheets 1 and 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Roxton CP     Reference 1/k       The existing private means of access to
adjacent land alongside existing A1 (southbound).     For a distance of 258
metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference 7       The realigned private means of access to adjacent land
alongside the existing A1 (southbound) for a distance of 352 metres as shown
on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP
Reference 1/l       The existing private access to adjacent land alongside the
existing A1 (southbound).     For a distance of 82 metres as shown on Sheet 1
of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 8       The
realigned private means of access to adjacent land alongside the existing A1
(southbound) for a distance of 98 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP - -     Reference 9       The
new private means of access to the proposed bridleway and stopped up School
Lane off the existing A1 (northbound) for a distance of 527 metres as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP
Reference 1/m       The existing private means of access to Kelpie Marina off
the existing A1 (northbound).     Whole access as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 10       The new
private means of access (Kelpie Marina) for a distance of 378 metres, as shown
on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP
Reference 1/p       The existing private means of access to adjacent land off
Bedford Road (eastbound).     For a distance of 19 metres as shown on Sheet 1
of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 11       The new
private means of access (including turning heads) to adjacent land and an
attenuation basin off the realigned Bedford Road for a distance of 275 metres,
as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton
CP - -     Reference 34       The new private means of access to adjacent land
off the Kelpie Marina access road for a distance of 10 metres as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP - -
Reference 38       The new private means of access to adjacent land off the
Kelpie Marina access road for a distance of 16 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP - -     Reference
14       The new private means of access to adjacent land off the Kelpie
Marina access road for a distance of 14 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP     Reference 1/q
The existing private means of access to adjacent land off Bedford Road
(westbound).     Whole access as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.     Reference 15       The new private means of access
to adjacent land off the Kelpie Marina access road for a distance of 13 metres
as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton
CP - -     Reference 50       The new private means access to an attenuation
basin off the Roxton Road link (south) for a distance of 16 metres as shown on
Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP - -
Reference 80       The new private means access to adjacent land off the
Roxton Road link (south) for a distance of 5 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Roxton CP - -     Reference 85
The new private means access to an attenuation basin off a new private means
of access (Reference 6) running parallel to the Black Cat junction eastbound
on-slip for a distance of 9 metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference
2/e       The existing private means of access from the service station to the
existing A1 (southbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet 2
of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 69       The new
private means of access to the A1 Services link for a distance of 2 meters, as
shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Wyboston,
Chawston & Colesden CP Reference 2/gThe existing private means of access to
adjacent land off Chawston Lane. Whole access to field as shown on Sheet 2 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 13       The new
private means of access to adjacent land off the Roxton Road link (south) for
a distance of 22 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference 2/a       The
existing private means of access to adjacent land (House No. 1, Great North
Road) off the existing A1 (northbound).     Whole access to property as shown
on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 17
The new private means of access to the adjacent land (House No. 1, Great North
Road) off the Nagshead Lane link for a distance of 2 metres as shown on Sheet
2 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP     Reference 2/b       The existing private means of access to
adjacent land (House No. 13, Great North Road) off the existing A1
(northbound).     Whole access to property as shown on Sheet 2 of streets,
rights of way and access plans. Reference 16 The new private means of access
to adjacent land (House No. 13 Great North Road) off the Roxton Road link
(north) for a distance of 35 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference 2/d
The existing private means of access to adjacent land (House No. 19, 21 23, 25
Great North Road) off the existing A1 (northbound).     Whole access to
properties as shown on Sheet 2 of streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference 65       The realigned private means of access to the adjacent land
(House No. 19, 21 23, 25 Great North Road) off the realigned The Lane for a
distance of 19 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 18       The new private
means of access (including turning head) to the new River Great Ouse viaduct
off the new private means of access (Reference 24) from the realigned Barford
Road for a distance of 410 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 19       The new
private means of access to the adjacent land off the realigned Barford Road
for a distance of 25 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 20       The new private
means of access to the adjacent land off the realigned Barford Road for a
distance of 23 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 21       The realigned
private means of access to the adjacent land (House No. 1, The Barns) off the
realigned Barford Road for a distance of 28 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 22
The realigned private means of access to the adjacent land (House No.2, The
Barns) off the realigned Barford Road for a distance of 31 metres as shown on
Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -
Reference 23       The realigned private means of access to the adjacent land
off the realigned Barford Road for a distance of 35 metres, as shown on Sheet
3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP
Reference 3/a       The existing private means of access to the adjacent land
off the existing Barford Road.     For a distance of 256 metres as shown on
Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Reference 24
The realigned private means of access (including turning head) to the adjacent
lands off the realigned Barford Road for a distance of 470 metres as shown on
Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.       Reference 25
The new private means of access to the adjacent land off the realigned Barford
Road for a distance of 465 metres as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 26       The new
private means of access to the adjacent land off the realigned Barford Road
for a distance of 37 metres, as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.     Tempsford CP     Reference 3/b       The existing
private means of access to the adjacent land off the existing Barford Road.
Whole access to field as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Reference 27       The realigned private means of access to
the adjacent land off the realigned Barford Road for a distance of 40 metres
west as shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Tempsford CP - -     Reference 28       The new private means of access to the
adjacent lands alongside the East Coast Main Line railway and the East Coast
Main Line bridge for a distance of 258 metres as shown on Sheet 4 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 30
The new private means of access to Reference 33 from Reference 32 for a
distance of 34 metres as shown on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 33       The new private
means of access to the adjacent lands alongside the East Coast Main Line
railway and the East Coast Main Line bridge for a distance of 1129 metres as
shown on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Little
Barford CP - -     Reference 31       The new private means of access to the
adjacent land alongside the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a distance of
337 metres as shown on Sheets 4 and 5 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Tempsford CP - -     Reference 32       The new private means of
access (including turning heads) to an attenuation basin and bat mitigation
underpass off the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a distance of 456
metres as shown on Sheet 4 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Little Barford CP - -     Reference 62       The realigned private means of
access to adjacent land adjacent to the new dual carriageway (eastbound and
westbound) for a distance of 520 metres as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP     Reference 5/a       The
existing private means of access to business off the existing Potton Road.
For a distance of 7 metres as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.     Reference 63       The realigned private means of access
to adjacent business and land off realigned Potton Road for a distance of 12
metres as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Reference 67       The realigned private means of access to adjacent land off
realigned Potton Road for a distance of 12 metres as shown on Sheet 5 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 71
The new private means of access to adjacent land off the existing Potton Road
for a total distance of 164 metres as shown on Sheet 5 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP     Reference 6/a       The existing
private means of access to adjacent land off the existing B1046.     Whole
access to field as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Reference 35       The realigned private means of access to
adjacent land off the emergency access road to the new dual carriageway
(northbound) for a distance of 35 metres, as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 90
The new private means of access to adjacent land off the realigned B1046 for a
distance of 34 metres as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 72       The new private
means of access to adjacent land off the realigned B1046 including a spur
private access to Rectory Farm cottages for a distance of 388 metres as shown
on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP -
-     Reference 12, 29, 36, 37 and 39       The new private means of access
(including turning heads) to an attenuation basin and adjacent land off the
emergency access road off the new dual carriageway (southbound) for a distance
of 2071 metres as shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 81       The new private means of
access to adjacent land off the realigned B1046 for a distance of 12 metres as
shown on Sheet 6 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley
CP - -     Reference 40       The new private means of access to adjacent
land, off the existing Cambridge Road roundabout and existing A428 for a
distance of 257 metres, as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 41       The realigned
private means of access (including turning head) to an attenuation basin off
the realigned A428 for a distance of 312 metres, as shown on Sheets 8 and 9 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -
Reference 42       The new private means of access to adjacent land off
Cambridge Road junction for a distance of 377 metres as shown on Sheet 9 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -
Reference 43       The new and realigned private means of access (including
turning head) to an attenuation basin and adjacent land off the realigned A428
for a distance of 379 metres as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans.     Abbotsley CP - -     Reference 44, 45 and 46       The
realigned private means of access to adjacent land and an attenuation basin
off the realigned A428 for a distance of 159 metres as shown on Sheet 9 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Abbotsley CP     Reference 10/a
The existing private means of access to adjacent land off the existing A428.
For a distance of 408 metres as shown on Sheet 10 of the streets, rights of
way and access plans.     Reference 47       The realigned private means of
access to adjacent land, access track and public right of way off the existing
A428 and alongside the new dual carriageway (eastbound and westbound) for a
distance of 595 metres, as shown on Sheet 10 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Toseland CP     Reference 11/a       The existing private
means of access to adjacent land off the existing Toseland Road.     For a
distance of 35 metres as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Reference 48       The realigned private means of access to
the adjacent land off the realigned Toseland Road for a distance of 86 metres
as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Croxton CP - -     Reference 70       The new private means of access to
adjacent land off the realigned Toseland Road for a distance of 39 metres as
shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Toseland
CP, Yelling CP - -     Reference 49       The realigned private means of
access to the adjacent land off the emergency access road for a distance of 59
metres as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Toseland CP, Yelling CP, Croxton CP - -     Reference 51       The new private
means of access (including turning head) to an attenuation basin off the
emergency access road for a distance of 262 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Croxton CP - -     Reference
53       The new private means of access to the adjacent land off the
realigned Toseland Road for a distance of 29 metres, as shown on Sheet 11 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Croxton CP - -     Reference
68       The new private means of access to the adjacent land off the
emergency access road (from the new dual carriageway (westbound) for a
distance of 1095 metres as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Croxton CP - -     Reference 64       The new private means
of access to adjacent land off the realigned A428 for a distance of 882 metres
as shown on Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Croxton CP - -     Reference 66       The new private means of access to
adjacent land off the realigned A428 for a distance of 12 metres as shown on
Sheet 12 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley CP - -
Reference 54 and 56       The new private means of access (including turning
head) to an attenuation basin and adjacent land off Eltisley link and
alongside the new dual carriageway (eastbound) for a combined distance of 334
metres as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Eltisley CP - -     Reference 55       The realigned private means
of access (including turning head) to an attenuation basin off the realigned
A428 for a distance of 64 metres, as shown on Sheets 12 and 13 of the streets,
rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley CP - -     Reference 57       The
new private means of access (including turning head) to an attenuation basin
off the existing A428 for a distance of 59 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley CP     Reference 13/a
and 13/b       The existing private means of access to adjacent land south of
the existing A428.     For a distance of 94 metres (Reference 13/a) and 127
metres (Reference 13/b) as shown on Sheet 13 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.     Reference 58 and 59       The new private means of access to
adjacent land off the Eltisley link and alongside the new dual carriageway
(westbound) for a distance of 1334 metres, as shown on Sheet 13 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans.     Eltisley CP,Caxton CP - -
Reference 60       The new private means of access (including turning head) to
adjacent land off the realigned A428 for a distance of 48 metres as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.     Caxton CP,
Papworth Everard CP - -     Reference 52       The new private means of access
to adjacent land off the Caxton Gibbet junction west roundabout for a distance
of 15 metres, as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access
plans.     Elsworth CP - -     Reference 61       The new private means of
access to an attenuation basin and adjacent land (including layby) off the
Caxton Gibbet junction north roundabout and Brockley Road for a distance of
972 metres as shown on Sheets 14 and 15 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped up         (3)         Extent of stopping up       Wyboston, Chawston
& Colesden CP     Reference 1/b       Private access to services off the
existing Black Cat roundabout.     Whole access to property as shown on Sheet
1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston &
Colesden CP     Reference 1/f       Private access to adjacent land off the
existing A1 (northbound).     Whole access to property as shown on Sheet 1 of
the streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Reference 1/c       Private access to adjacent land off the existing A1
(northbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Reference 1/d       Private access to adjacent land off the existing A1
(northbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Reference 1/h       Private access to adjacent land off the existing A1
(northbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP
Reference 1/i       Private access to adjacent land off the existing A1
(southbound).     Whole access to properties as shown on Sheet 1 of the
streets, rights of way and access plans. Roxton CP     Reference 1/o
Private access to adjacent land off the existing Bedford Road.     Whole
access to property as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Roxton CP     Reference 1/n       Private access to adjacent
land off the existing Bedford Road carriageway.     For a distance of 260
metres as shown on Sheet 1 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference 2/f       Private access to
adjacent land on Old Great North Road off existing A1 (southbound).     For a
distance of 44 metres as shown on Sheet 2 of the streets, rights of way and
access plans. Wyboston, Chawston & Colesden CP     Reference 2/h       Private
access to adjacent land off Chawston Lane.     Whole access to field as shown
on Sheet 2 of streets, rights of way and access plans. Tempsford CP
Reference 3/c       Private access along river bank of the River Great Ouse.
For a distance of 47 metres along the river bank of the River Great Ouse as
shown on Sheet 3 of the streets, rights of way and access plans Abbotsley CP
Reference 8/a       Private access to adjacent land.     Starting at a point
37 metres west of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point 42 metres
east, for a distance of 79 metres as shown on Sheet 8 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Abbotsley CP     Reference 9/a       Private access
to adjacent land off the existing A428.     Starting at a point 92 metres
north of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point 50 metres south,
for a distance of 142 metres as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way
and access plans. Abbotsley CP     Reference 9/b       Private access to
adjacent land.     Starting at a point 23 metres north of the centre of the
new dual carriageway to a point 31 metres south, for a distance of 54 metres
as shown on Sheet 9 of the streets, rights of way and access plans. Yelling CP
Reference 11/b       Private access to adjacent land.     Starting at a point
32 metres north of the centre of the new dual carriageway to a point 28 metres
south, for a distance of 60 metres as shown on Sheet 11 of the streets, rights
of way and access plans. Papworth Everard CP     Reference 14/a       Private
access (entry) to the adjacent land off existing A428.     Whole access to
property as shown on Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.
Papworth Everard CP     Reference 14/b       Private access (exit) to the
adjacent land off existing A428.     Whole access to property as shown on
Sheet 14 of the streets, rights of way and access plans.

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS AND RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 27

          (1)         Plot reference number shown on land plans         (2)
Purpose for which rights over land may be acquired or restrictive covenants
imposed         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
Land Plan – Sheet 1 1/8b Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 3 1/8n Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
Work No. 3 1/8t Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. Work No. 15 1/8p Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No.
15 1/9d Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways. Work No. 15 1/9c Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 15
1/9f Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work No. 15 1/10a Right to pass and repass with or without
plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 3 1/10f
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 19, 20 1/10j     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus. Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8, 11 1/10m
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators. Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8, 19, 20 1/16g     Installation, maintenance and
use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators. Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7,
8, 19, 20 1/21d     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines,
cables, equipment and apparatus. Right to pass and repass with or without
plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8, 11 1/23c     Installation, maintenance and use
of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus. Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 6, 18 1/23h     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus. Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8, 11 1/23n
Construction of the realigned access track over Rockham Ditch.       Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and the construction of the A1 southbound onslip road from the new
Black Cat junction circulatory.     Work Nos. 15, 21 1/32b     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 6, 18 1/36a
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work No. 22 1/40c     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8 1/42a Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work Nos.
15, 21 1/43b     Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators. Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 9, 15, 21 1/43f Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways. Work Nos. 15, 21 1/46c     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 7, 8 Land Plans – Sheet 2 2/3c
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 20, 21, 28, 36
2/8a     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work No. 32 2/8d     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes
and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 29, 31 2/12b     Installation, maintenance and use of
ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
20, 28, 36 2/12c     Maintenance access to existing drainage infrastructure.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.     - 2/14b     Installation, maintenance and use of
ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic communications
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
20, 28, 36 2/15a     Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and
apparatus for utilities and electronic communications operators.       Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 20, 28, 36 2/16b
Installation, maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
and electronic communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 20, 28, 36 2/17a     Installation,
maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities operators.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 29, 31 2/18a
Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
29, 31 2/20a     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment, pipes and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 29, 31, 32 2/20b
Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
29, 31 2/20d     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for
utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 21, 29, 31 2/24e     Installation, maintenance and
use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 26, 27 2/27a
Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
22, 31, 37 2/28a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. Work No. 37 2/29a Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No.
37 2/30a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways. Work No. 37 2/31a Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 37
2/33a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways. Work No. 37 2/34a Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 37
2/35a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways. Work No. 37 2/36a     Installation, maintenance
and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 22, 27, 37 2/37a
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
22, 27, 37 2/37b Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. - 2/38a Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. - 2/38b Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways. - 2/38c Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. - Land Plans – Sheet 3 3/1b
Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 1,
22, 24, 38, 39 3/3b     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 1, 24, 38, 39 3/7b Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 39 3/7d
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work No. 39 3/8b Right to pass and repass with or without
plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 39 3/8d Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways. Work No. 39 3/10c     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 41, 43 3/10e     Installation, maintenance and use of
pipes and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 41, 43 3/10j     Installation,
maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 43, 44, 45, 47 Land Plans – Sheet 4 4/1b
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
40, 49 4/1d Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways. Work No. 50 4/1g     Installation, maintenance
and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 40, 49, 50 4/1h
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 40, 50, 51, 52, 53 4/1j Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work Nos. 50,
51 4/1k     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 40, 50, 51, 52 4/1m     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 40, 52 4/2c
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work Nos. 40, 50 4/2g Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work No. 50 4/3d
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work Nos. 54, 55 Land Plans – Sheet 5 5/1a
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
54, 55, 56 5/1c     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines,
cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 54, 55, 56 5/2b     Installation, maintenance and use
of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 58, 59 5/2e     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 58 5/2g
Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
57, 60, 61 5/2i     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and apparatus
for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 60, 61, 64 Land Plans – Sheet 6 6/2b
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
68, 69 6/2d     Installation, maintenance and use of electronic communications
cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 65, 68 6/2f     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work No. 67 6/2h     Installation, maintenance
and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
57, 62, 63, 64, 67, 68 6/2j     Installation, maintenance and use of pipes and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 60, 61a, 64 6/2n     Installation, maintenance
and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 64, 67, 68 6/3b
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 62, 63, 64, 65, 67, 68 6/6a     Installation,
maintenance and use of electronic communications cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
65, 68 6/8b     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 68, 69 Land Plans – Sheet 7 Land Plans – Sheet 8 8/5g
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work No. 80a Land Plans – Sheet 9 9/6c     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 80a, 80b, 82
9/6f Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work No. 57 9/7f     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 57, 80b, 82 9/7j Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
Work No. 57 9/8a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. Work No. 57 Land Plans – Sheet 10 Land Plans
– Sheet 11 11/4e Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. Work No. 57, 89 Land Plans – Sheet 12 12/6a
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways. Work Nos. 57, 91, 98a 12/6d Right to pass and repass with
or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways. Work Nos. 91,
92, 93, 98a 12/6e Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways. Work No. 91, 92, 98a 12/6h     Installation,
maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98a 12/6k     Installation, maintenance
and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and electronic
communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 95, 96, 97, 98a Land Plans – Sheet 13 13/2c
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 98b, 98c, 99, 100, 103 13/3a     Installation,
maintenance and use of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 95, 96, 98a, 98d 13/4b     Installation, maintenance
and use of apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 95, 98a, 98b 13/4c Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
Work Nos. 92, 98a, 98b 13/4e     Installation, maintenance and use of
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 95 13/5a     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 99 13/6b     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 98c, 99 13/14c
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 98b, 99, 100 13/14d     Installation, maintenance
and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
98e, 99, 100 13/14f     Installation, maintenance and use of apparatus for
utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 98b, 98c, 99, 103 13/14g     Installation,
maintenance and use of apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 98b, 103 Land Plans –
Sheet 14 14/2c     Installation, maintenance and use of apparatus for
utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 109b 14/2d     Installation, maintenance
and use of apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104 14/5c     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus for
utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110 14/6b     Installation,
maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 109a, 110 14/8d
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
91, 110 14/8e     Installation, maintenance and use of apparatus for utilities
operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
103, 109d 14/11c     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines,
cables, equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110 14/11d
Installation, maintenance and use of apparatus for utilities operators.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104 14/15c
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
109b, 110 14/17a     Installation, maintenance and use of apparatus for
utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways.       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104 14/19a     Installation, maintenance and use
of electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107,
110 14/19b     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110 14/20a
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110 14/21b     Installation,
maintenance and use of apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass
and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 91, 103 14/21e
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos.
109a, 110 Land Plans – Sheet 15 15/3b     Installation, maintenance and use of
electric lines, cables, equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107,
110 15/4a     Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables,
equipment and apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and
repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.
To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110 15/5a
Installation, maintenance and use of electric lines, cables, equipment and
apparatus for utilities operators.       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult.     Work Nos. 103, 104, 107, 110

MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 27

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the compulsory purchase
of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

For section 5A(5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 to the A428 Black Cat to Caxton
Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022 (“ the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet
Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Order) to acquire an
interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enter on and take possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 33
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under
article 24 (compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory
acquisition of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of
a restrictive covenant under article  27(1)  (compulsory acquisition of rights
and imposition of restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For Section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers
conferred by this or the Special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to a compulsory acquisition
under article 24), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and
subject to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that
right or enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of
entry: further notices of entry). 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to
be taken on specified date), 12  (penalty for unauthorised entry) and 13
(refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act are
modified correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 33(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an undertaker serves a notice to treat in respect
of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 of the 1981 Act as applied by article 34 (application of the
1981 Act) of the A428 Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order
2022 in respect of the land to which the notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 35(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A428
Black Cat to Caxton Gibbet Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they are included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory
purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included
the owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes it determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 37

          (1)       Location         (2)         Plot Reference Number shown
on land plans         (3)         Purpose for which temporary possession may
be taken         (4)         Relevant part of the authorised development
Land Plans – Sheet 1 Roxton 1/1l Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned A1 carriageway. Work No. 21 Roxton 1/2a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4 Roxton 1/2b Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4 Roxton
1/2c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4
Roxton 1/7f Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie Marina
access track and realigned A1 carriageway. Work Nos. 7, 21 Wyboston, Chawston
and Colesden 1/8a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Roxton Road
access track. Work No. 3 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/8f Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned dual carriageway west of the
Black Cat junction. Work No. 1 Roxton 1/8g Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned dual carriageway west of the Black Cat junction
and westbound on slip road from the junction. Work No. 1 Roxton 1/8h Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/8m Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Roxton Road access track. Work No. 3 Roxton 1/8o Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4 Roxton 1/8q Required to
provide a temporary construction area. Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space for this construction area, the
construction of the realigned Greenacres access track, the construction of the
flood compensation area south east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory,
and the quarry restoration works. Work Nos. 16, 17 Roxton 1/9e Required to
provide a temporary construction area. Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space for this construction area, the
construction of the realigned Greenacres access track. Work Nos. 15, 17
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/10c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Roxton Road access track. Work No. 3 Roxton 1/10g Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie Marina access track and A1
northbound offslip road to the new Black Cat junction circulatory. Work Nos.
7, 21 Roxton 1/10i Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie
Marina access track and bridleway, as well as the flood compensation area to
the west of the track. Works No. 7,11 Roxton 1/10l Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the combined Kelpie Marina access track and bridleway. Work
No. 7 Roxton 1/16e Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of a turn around area
along School Lane. - Roxton 1/16h Required to provide a temporary construction
compound, including temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space. - Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/19a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Roxton Road. Work No. 3 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 1/20a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Roxton Road.
Work No. 3 Roxton 1/20b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned
Bedford Road. Work No. 4 Roxton 1/20c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Bedford Road. Work No. 4 Roxton 1/21a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Roxton Road and required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of Roxton Road Link (south). Work Nos. 3, 18 Roxton 1/21c
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie Marina access track and
bridleway, as well as the flood compensation area to the west of the track.
Work Nos. 7, 11 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/23b Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of Roxton Road Link (south). Work No. 18 Roxton 1/23g Required to
provide temporary soil storage, as well as temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the attenuation
basin and realigned Bedford Road, Black Cat junction including slip roads.
Work Nos. 4, 5 Roxton 1/23i Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the combined
Kelpie Marina access track and the flood compensation area to the west of the
track. Work Nos. 7, 11 Roxton 1/23m Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned A1 carriageway, the realigned access track over Rockham Ditch at
Greenacres, and flood compensation area south east of the new Black Cat
junction circulatory. Work Nos. 15, 21, 24 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden
1/32c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of Roxton Road Link (south). Work No. 18
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/33a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of
Roxton Road Link (south). Work No. 18 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/36b
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the A1 Services link road and a construction
area north east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory. Work Nos. 22, 23
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 1/37b Required to provide a temporary
construction area, including temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space. Work No. 23 Roxton 1/40a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
combined Kelpie Marina access track and realigned Bedford Road. Work Nos. 4,
7a Roxton 1/42c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Greenacres
access track and A1 southbound on slip road from the new Black Cat junction
circulatory. Work Nos. 15, 21 Roxton 1/43d Required to provide a temporary
construction area, including temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space for this construction area, the construction of the realigned
Greenacres access track, the construction of the realigned access track over
Rockham Ditch, and the construction of the flood compensation area south east
of the new Black Cat junction circulatory. Work Nos. 15, 17, 24 Roxton 1/46b
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie Marina access track and
bridleway. Work No. 7 Roxton 1/47a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
combined Kelpie Marina access track and bridleway. Work No. 7 Roxton 1/49a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned A1 carriageway. Work No. 21
Roxton 1/49c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the combined Kelpie Marina
access track and realigned A1 carriageway. Work Nos. 7, 21 Tempsford 1/51a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate improvements to the A1. Work No. 21 Land Plans – Sheet 2
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1a Required to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work No. 21
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1b Required to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work No. 21
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate improvements to the A1
and the construction of the access road to The Lane. Work Nos. 21, 36
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1d Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate improvements to the A1,
the construction of the access road to The Lane, and the diversion of
underground utilities. Work Nos. 20, 21, 28, 36 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 2/1e Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate improvements to the A1, the construction of the
access road to The Lane, and the diversion of underground utilities. Work Nos.
20, 21, 28, 36 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1f Required to facilitate
improvements to the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work
No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/1g Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned A1 carriageway. Work No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston
and Colesden 2/1k Required to facilitate the construction of a highway gantry
in the A1 southbound verge and to provide temporary access and working space.
- Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/2a Required to provide temporary access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned A1
carriageway and the diversion of an underground water utility. Work Nos. 21,
31 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/3a Required to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work No. 21
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/3b Required to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work No. 21
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/3d Required to facilitate improvements to
the A1 and the construction of the realigned A1 carriageway and to provide
temporary access and working space. Work No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 2/3e Required to facilitate improvements to the A1 and the
construction of the realigned A1 carriageway and to provide temporary access
and working space for these works, as well as to provide temporary access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the A1 Services link road and
the access road to The Lane. Work Nos. 21, 22, 36 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 2/4a Required to facilitate improvements to the A1 and to provide
temporary access and working space. Work No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 2/4b Required to facilitate the construction of the realigned
sections of The Lane, and to provide temporary access and working space for
these works, as well as to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north). Work Nos. 29, 36
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/4c Required to provide temporary access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned A1 carriageway
and the Nagshead Lane link. Work Nos. 29, 31, 32 Wyboston, Chawston and
Colesden 2/4d Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north and south). Work Nos.
18, 19, 20, 28, 29 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/5a Required to facilitate
improvements to the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work
No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/6a Required to facilitate
improvements to the A1 and to provide temporary access and working space. Work
No. 21 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/7a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of Roxton Road link (north) and the flood compensation area east
of the link. Work No. 29, 34 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/8b Required to
facilitate the decommissioning and removal of diverted utilities. Work No. 32
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/8c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of
Roxton Road link (north). Work Nos. 29, 32 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden
2/8f Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north). Work Nos.
29, 35 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/9a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of Roxton Road link (north) and the flood compensation area east
of the link. Work Nos. 29, 34 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/10a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the flood compensation area east of Roxton Road
link (north). Work No. 29, 34 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/11a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north), the flood
compensation area east of the link, and the attenuation basin east of both
Roxton Road link (north) and the Nagshead Lane link. Work Nos. 29, 33, 34
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/11b Required to facilitate the
decommissioning and removal of diverted utilities. Work No. 32 Wyboston,
Chawston and Colesden 2/13a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the access
road to The Lane. Work No. 36 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/14a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the access road to The Lane. Work No. 36
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/15b Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
access road to The Lane. Work No. 36 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/16a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the access road to The Lane. Work No. 36
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/18c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of
Roxton Road link (north). Work No. 29 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/19a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north), the Nagshead Lane
link and the attenuation basin east of these links. Work Nos. 29, 33 Wyboston,
Chawston and Colesden 2/19c Required to facilitate the decommissioning and
removal of diverted utilities. Work No. 32 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden
2/19d Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the realigned A1 carriageway and the
Nagshead Lane link. Work Nos. 21, 29 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/21a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (north). Work No. 29
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/22a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of
Roxton Road link (north). Work No. 29 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/23a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned A1 carriageway. Work No. 21
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/24b Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of
Roxton Road link (south). Work No. 18 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/24c
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the flood compensation area west of Roxton
Road link (south). Work No. 26 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 2/25a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of Roxton Road link (south). Work No. 18 Wyboston,
Chawston and Colesden 2/26a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of Roxton Road
link (south) and the associated culvert across South Brook. Work No. 18, 25
Land Plans – Sheet 3 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 3/1a Required to provide
a temporary construction area, including temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space. Work No. 23 Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 3/1c
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the River Great Ouse viaduct and the access
track extending from the A1 Services link road. Work Nos. 22, 39 Wyboston,
Chawston and Colesden 3/2a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the River
Great Ouse viaduct and the access track extending from the A1 Services link
road. Work Nos. 22, 39 Roxton 3/3c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
flood compensation area south east of the new Black Cat junction circulatory.
Work No. 24 Roxton 3/7a Required to provide temporary access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the River Great Ouse viaduct. Work No. 39
Tempsford 3/8a Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the River Great Ouse viaduct. Work No. 39
Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 3/9a Required to provide temporary access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the River Great Ouse viaduct.
Work No. 39 Tempsford 3/10a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43 Tempsford 3/10b Required to provide
temporary access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43 Tempsford 3/10f Required to provide
temporary access and working space to facilitate the construction of the River
Great Ouse viaduct. Work No. 39 Tempsford 3/10g Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43 Tempsford 3/10h
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work Nos. 43, 44
Tempsford 3/10i Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford
Road. Work Nos. 43, 44, 45 Tempsford 3/10l Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Barford Road, the attenuation basin and flood
compensation areas east of this (north of the dual carriageway), and the dual
carriageway. Work Nos. 40, 43, 46, 48 Tempsford 3/10m Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Barford Road, the flood compensation area east
of this (south of the dual carriageway), and the dual carriageway. Work Nos.
40, 43, 48 Tempsford 3/10n Required to provide temporary storage of soil and
other materials, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 40 Tempsford 3/11b Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43 Little
Barford 3/12a Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43
Tempsford 3/13a Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work No. 43
Tempsford 3/13b Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford Road. Work Nos. 43, 44
Tempsford 3/17a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned Barford
Road, and the attenuation basin east of this. Work Nos. 43, 44, 46 Land Plans
– Sheet 4 Tempsford 4/1a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway. Work No. 40 Tempsford 4/1c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
dual carriageway and the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work Nos. 40, 50
Tempsford 4/1f Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work
No. 40 Tempsford 4/1l Required to provide temporary storage of soil and other
materials, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 40 Tempsford 4/1o Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the attenuation basin east of the East Coast
Main Line bridge, as well as the access tracks from the dual carriageway. Work
Nos. 40, 50, 53 Tempsford 4/1p Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
attenuation basin east of the East Coast Main Line bridge, as well as the
access tracks from the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 40, 50, 53 Tempsford 4/1q
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the attenuation basin east of the East Coast
Main Line bridge, as well as the access tracks from the dual carriageway. Work
Nos. 40, 50, 53 Tempsford 4/1r Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway, the attenuation basin east of the East Coast Main Line bridge, as
well as the access tracks from the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 40, 50, 53, 54
Tempsford 4/1s Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the access track from the
dual carriageway. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2b
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50
Tempsford 4/2d Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the East Coast Main Line
bridge. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2e Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2f Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2h
Required to provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50 Tempsford 4/2i
Required to provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the East Coast Main Line bridge. Work No. 50 Little Barford
4/3a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 40, 54
Little Barford 4/3c Required to provide earthworks temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway and Top Farm access track. Work Nos. 54, 55 Land Plans – Sheet 5
Little Barford 5/1b Required to provide a temporary construction area,
including temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Top Farm accommodate bridge and access
tracks, as well as the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 54, 55 Little Barford 5/1d
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the Top Farm accommodate bridge and access
tracks, as well as the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 54, 55, 56 Little Barford
5/1e Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the Top Farm accommodate bridge and
access tracks, as well as the dual carriageway. Work Nos. 54, 55, 56 Little
Barford 5/1g Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work
Nos. 54, 57 Abbotsley; Little Barford 5/2a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway, the flood compensation area between this
and Potton Road, and a field access track from Potton Road. Work Nos. 54, 57,
59 Abbotsley 5/2c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and
the realigned Potton Road, as well as the flood compensation area between the
dual carriageway and Potton Road. Work Nos. 57, 59, 64 Abbotsley; Little
Barford 5/2d Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No.
57 Abbotsley 5/2h Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work
No. 57 Abbotsley 5/2j Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned
Potton Road. Work No. 64 Abbotsley 5/3a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of a
field access track from Potton Road. - Abbotsley 5/3b Required to facilitate
the diversion of an underground water utility and to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Potton Road. Work Nos. 60, 64 Abbotsley 5/3c
Required to facilitate the diversion of underground power and electronic
communications utilities, as well as the construction of the realigned Potton
Road. Work Nos. 63, 64, 65, 66 Abbotsley 5/5a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Potton Road and the diversion of underground
utilities. Work Nos. 60, 61, 64 Abbotsley 5/6a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Potton Road and the diversion of underground
utilities. Work Nos. 60, 61, 64 Abbotsley 5/8b Required to facilitate the
diversion of an underground power utility, as well as the construction of the
realigned Potton Road. Work Nos. 63, 64 Abbotsley 5/8c Required to facilitate
the diversion of underground power and electronic communications utilities, as
well as the construction of the realigned Potton Road. Work Nos. 63, 64, 65
Land Plans – Sheet 6 Abbotsley; St Neots 6/1a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. - Abbotsley 6/2a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley 6/2c Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley 6/2e
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046 including the tie-in to
the existing Potton Road being stopped up and retained as a private access.
Work Nos. 64, 68 Part of the agricultural field and shrubbery; north of Potton
Road and east of Rectory Farm Cottages, Eynesbury Hardwicke, St Neots. 6/2g
Required to provide temporary storage of soil and other materials, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway and the realigned B1046. Work Nos. 57, 68 Part of the agricultural
field, trees, shrubbery and ditches; east of Rectory Farm Cottage and south of
Potton Road, Eynesbury Hardwicke, St Neots. 6/2i Required to provide temporary
storage of soil and other materials, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and the realigned
Potton Road. Work Nos. 57, 64 Part of the agricultural field; north of Parkers
Farmhouse and east of Potton Road, St Neots. 6/2m Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned Potton Road. Work Nos. 64, 66 Part of the
agricultural field; north-east of Eynesbury Warehousing and south of St Neots
Road, B1046, Eynesbury Hardwicke, St Neots. 6/2o Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley 6/3a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley 6/8a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley
6/8c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and the realigned
B1046, as well as the underpass and culvert at Hen Brook, including the
stopping up of a section of Footpath 1/20 between the existing A428 and the
new dual carriageway. Work Nos. 57, 68, 72 Abbotsley 6/8f Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway, the realigned B1046, an attenuation
basin and the flood compensation area north of the B1046, and the access track
between the B1046 and the attenuation basins. Work Nos. 57, 68, 70, 71
Abbotsley 6/8g Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway, the
realigned B1046, the flood compensation area and an attenuation basin north of
the B1046, and the access track between the B1046 and the attenuation basins,
as well as the underpass and culvert at Hen Brook. Work Nos. 57, 68, 71, 72,
73 Abbotsley 6/9a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and
the access track between the B1046 and attenuation basins. Work Nos. 57, 68
Land Plans – Sheet 7 Little Barford; St Neots; Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden
7/1a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Little
Barford; St Neots 7/1b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428
carriageway. - Abbotsley; St Neots 7/1c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. - Abbotsley; St Neots 7/1d Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
introduction of the construction area north-west of the existing A428, between
the B1046 and Hen Brook, as well as to facilitate the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 74 St Neots 7/2a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 St Neots 7/2b Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 Abbotsley; St
Neots 7/2c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No.
68 Abbotsley 7/2d Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work
No. 68 Little Barford 7/3a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing
A428 carriageway. - Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 7/4a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Abbotsley; Little Barford; St
Neots 7/4b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway.
- Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 7/4c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. - Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 7/4d Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - St Neots 7/5a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the introduction of the construction area north-west of the
existing A428, between the B1046 and Hen Brook. Work Nos. 68, 74 Abbotsley
7/5b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the realigned B1046. Work No. 68 St
Neots 7/6a Required to facilitate the introduction of the temporary
construction area north-west of the existing A428, between the B1046 and Hen
Brook. Work No. 74 Land Plans – Sheet 8 Abbotsley; St Neots 8/1a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a St Neots 8/2a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a Abbotsley 8/3a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a Abbotsley 8/4a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 57 Abbotsley
8/5a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway, footbridge and
realigned footpath. Work Nos. 57, 77 Abbotsley 8/5c Required to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway, Cambridge Road Junction, footbridge and
realigned footpath, including the regrading of earthworks as well as temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space. Work Nos. 57, 77, 80a
Abbotsley 8/5e Required to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway, footbridge and realigned footpath, including the regrading of
earthworks as well as temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space. Work Nos. 57, 77 St Neots 8/6a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
Cambridge Road Junction. Work No. 80a St Neots 8/6b Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a St Neots 8/7a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a Abbotsley 8/8a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 80a Land Plans – Sheet 9 St Neots 9/1b
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction. Work No. 80a
Abbotsley 9/2b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road
Junction, accommodation bridge and realigned access track, as well as the de-
trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. Work Nos. 80c, 85 St Neots 9/3a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction. Work No. 80a St
Neots 9/4a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction.
Work No. 80a St Neots 9/5a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
Cambridge Road Junction. Work No. 80a Abbotsley 9/6a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Cambridge Road Junction. Work No. 80a Abbotsley 9/6d
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and Cambridge Road
Junction. Work Nos. 57, 80b Abbotsley 9/6g Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the accommodation bridge and realigned access track. Work No.
85 Abbotsley 9/7a Required to provide a temporary construction area, including
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Cambridge Road Junction and the attenuation basin west of
the junction. Work Nos. 79, 80a Abbotsley 9/7c Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway and Cambridge Road Junction. Work Nos.
57, 80b, 80c Abbotsley 9/7d Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway and Cambridge Road Junction. Work Nos. 57, 80c Abbotsley 9/7h
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 57 Abbotsley
9/7i Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the Cambridge Road Junction. Work No.
80c Abbotsley 9/7k Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway, attenuation basin east of the Cambridge Road Junction, and the
access track to this basin from the realigned existing A428. Work Nos. 57,
80c, 84 Abbotsley 9/7l Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway, accommodation bridge and realigned access track. Work Nos. 57, 85
Abbotsley 9/8b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the accommodation bridge
and realigned access track. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 9/9c Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate works
to existing Bridleway 1/18. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 9/10a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate works
to existing Bridleway 1/18. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 9/11b Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate works
to existing Bridleway 1/18, as well as the de-trunking of the existing A428
carriageway. Work No. 85 Land Plans – Sheet 10 Abbotlsey; Croxton 10/1a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Abbotsley
10/2a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the accommodation bridge and realigned
access track. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 10/4a Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the accommodation bridge and realigned access track. Work No.
85 Abbotsley 10/4b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway, the accommodation bridge and realigned access track, the culverts
at Fox Brook and Gallow Brook, and the attenuation basin west of Toseland
Road, as well as the de-trunking of the existing A428. Work Nos. 57, 85, 86,
87, 88 Abbotsley; Toseland 10/4c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
dual carriageway, the accommodation bridge and realigned access track, the
culverts at Fox Brook and Gallow Brook, and the realigned Toseland Road. Work
Nos. 57, 85, 86, 87, 89 Abbotsley 10/5b Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
accommodation bridge and realigned access track. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 10/5d
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the accommodation bridge and realigned
access track. Work No. 85 Abbotsley 10/5e Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the accommodation bridge and realigned access track. Work No.
85 Land Plans – Sheet 11 Croxton 11/1a Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 11/1b Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 11/1c Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 11/1d Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 11/3a
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the construction of the realigned Toseland Road and the de-
trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 89 Toseland 11/4a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and the realigned Toseland
Road. Work Nos. 57, 89 Croxton 11/4c Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
realigned Toseland Road and the attenuation basin west of Toseland Road. Work
Nos. 88, 89 Croxton; Yelling 11/4f Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
dual carriageway and the realigned Toseland Road. Work Nos. 57, 89 Yelling
11/4g Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 57 Land
Plans – Sheet 12 Croxton 12/1a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing
A428 carriageway. - Croxton 12/1b Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 12/1c Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the de-trunking
of the existing A428 carriageway. - Eltisley 12/1d Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Eltisley 12/1e Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the diversion of underground utilities and the de-trunking of the
existing A428 carriageway. Work No. 95 Croxton 12/2a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Croxton 12/2b Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Eltisley 12/2c
Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space
to facilitate the de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Yelling
12/3a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 57
Yelling 12/3c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No.
57 Yelling 12/4b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work
No. 57 Yelling 12/5a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway. Work No. 57 Yelling; Eltisley 12/6b Required to provide temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway and the access track west of Eltisley
link. Work Nos. 57, 91, 98a Yelling; Eltisley 12/6c Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway and the Combined bridleway and
watercourse underpass to the north of Eltisley. Work Nos. 57, 91, 92 Eltisley
12/6g Required to facilitate the construction of the Combined bridleway and
watercourse underpass to the north of Eltisley, also providing temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway and the Eltisley link. Work Nos. 91, 92,
98a, 98b Eltisley 12/6i Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the Eltisley link.
Work No. 98a Land Plans – Sheet 13 Eltisley 13/2e Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
de-trunking of the existing A428 carriageway. - Eltisley 13/4f Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway. Work No. 91 Eltisley
13/4g Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the Eltisley link. Work No. 98c
Eltisley 13/5b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the Eltisley link and the
diversion of an underground utility. Work Nos. 98c, 99 Eltisley 13/6a Required
to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Eltisley link and the diversion of an
underground utility. Work Nos. 98c, 99 Eltisley 13/7a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Eltisley link. Work No. 98c Eltisley 13/10f Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work No. 109a
Eltisley 13/11a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and
the Eltisley link. Work Nos. 91, 98e Eltisley 13/12b Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Eltisley link. Work No. 98e Eltisley 13/14a Required to
provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Eltisley link. Work Nos. 98b, 98d, 98e
Eltisley 13/14e Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual carriageway and
the Eltisley link. Work Nos. 91, 98e Eltisley 13/14i Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the dual carriageway and the access track from the Eltisley
South roundabout. Work Nos. 91, 98b Land Plans – Sheet 14 Caxton 14/2b
Required to provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction and the diversion of underground
utilities. Work Nos. 103, 104, 109b Cambourne; Caxton 14/4c Required to
provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the construction of
the Caxton Gibbet junction and the diversion of underground utilities. Work
Nos. 103, 104, 109b Eltisley; Papworth Everard 14/6a Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work No. 109a Eltisley; Papworth
Everard 14/6c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to facilitate the construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction.
Work No. 109a Caxton 14/8a Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway and the westbound onslip road from the Caxton Gibbet junction.
Work Nos. 91, 103 Caxton 14/8b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the
westbound onslip road from the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work No. 91 Caxton
14/8f Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to facilitate the construction of the westbound onslip road from the
Caxton Gibbet junction, and the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work Nos. 91, 109b,
109d Papworth Everard 14/10b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate the construction of the Caxton
Gibbet junction and the diversion of underground utilities. Work Nos. 103,
104, 109b, 109d Papworth Everard 14/11a Required to provide temporary access
and working space to facilitate a construction area north-west of the Caxton
Gibbet junction, the construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction, and the
diversion of underground utilities. Work Nos. 104a, 106, 107, 109b Cambourne;
Caxton 14/11b Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate the construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction and the diversion of
underground utilities. Work Nos. 103, 104, 109b Papworth Everard 14/13a
Required to provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work No. 109b Elsworth; Papworth
Everard 14/15b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to facilitate the construction of the Caxton Gibbet
junction. Work No. 109b Elsworth 14/16b Required to provide temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate a construction area
north-east of the Caxton Gibbet junction, the construction of the Caxton
Gibbet junction, and the diversion of overhead utilities. Work Nos. 109c, 110,
111 Eltisley 14/21c Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the dual
carriageway and the westbound onslip road from the Caxton Gibbet junction.
Work Nos. 91, 103 Eltisley; Papworth Everard 14/21d Required to provide
temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to facilitate a
construction area north-west of the Caxton Gibbet junction, and the
construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction. Work Nos. 106, 109a Eltisley;
Papworth Everard 14/21f Required to provide temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to facilitate the construction of the Caxton Gibbet
junction. Work No. 109a Land Plans – Sheet 15 Elsworth 15/2a Required to
provide temporary access and working space to facilitate the construction of
the shared access and bridleway from the Caxton Gibbet junction north
roundabout, and the diversion of overhead utilities. Work Nos. 109c, 110
Elsworth 15/4b Required to provide temporary access and working space to
facilitate a construction area north-east of the Caxton Gibbet junction, the
construction of the shared access and bridleway from the Caxton Gibbet
junction north roundabout, and the diversion of overhead utilities. Work Nos.
109c, 110, 111 Elsworth 15/6b Required to provide temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to facilitate a construction area north-east
of the Caxton Gibbet junction, the construction of the Caxton Gibbet junction,
and the diversion of overhead utilities. Work Nos. 109c, 110, 111 Land Plans –
Sheet 16 Great Barford 16/1a Required to provide access and working space to
facilitate a temporary vehicle recovery area off the A421 eastbound
carriageway. - Tempsford 16/1b Required to facilitate the construction of a
highway gantry in the A1 northbound verge and to provide temporary access and
working space. - Wyboston, Chawston and Colesden 16/1c Required to facilitate
the construction of a highway gantry in the A421 eastbound verge and to
provide temporary access and working space. - Hail Weston 16/2a Required to
provide access and working space to facilitate a temporary vehicle recovery
area off Kimbolton Road/B645. - Tempsford 16/3a Required to provide temporary
access and working space to facilitate the construction of a highway gantry in
the A1 northbound verge. - Tempsford 16/3b Required to provide temporary
access and working space to facilitate the construction of a highway gantry in
the A1 northbound verge. - Hail Weston 16/5a Required to provide a temporary
vehicle recovery area off Kimbolton Road/B645. - Hail Weston 16/6a Required to
provide access and working space to facilitate a temporary vehicle recovery
area off Kimbolton Road/B645. - Great Barford 16/7a Required to provide a
temporary vehicle recovery area off the A421 eastbound carriageway. -
Tempsford 16/8a Required to provide access and working space to facilitate a
temporary vehicle recovery area off Tempsford Road. - Tempsford 16/9a Required
to provide a temporary vehicle recovery area off Tempsford Road. - Tempsford
16/10a Required to provide temporary access and working space to facilitate
the construction of a highway gantry in the A1 northbound verge. -

  HEDGEROWS AND TREES

Articles 42 and 43

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

          (1)         Location of hedgerow         (2)         Relevant part
of the authorised development         (3)         Important hedgerow       The
hedgerow marked H1 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 2 No The hedgerow
marked H2 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 2, 3 No The hedgerow marked
H3 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 1, 3 No The hedgerow marked H4 on
page 2 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 1, 3 No The hedgerow marked H5 on page 2
of the habitats plan Work Nos. 1, 3 No The hedgerow marked H6 on page 2 of the
habitats plan Work Nos. 3, 18 No The hedgerow marked H9 on page 2 of the
habitats plan Work Nos. 21, 22 No The hedgerow marked H10 on page 2 of the
habitats plan Work No. 15 No The hedgerow marked H11 on page 2 of the habitats
plan Work No. 24 No The hedgerow marked H12 on page 2 of the habitats plan
Work Nos. 1, 24 No The hedgerow marked H13 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work
No. 1 No The hedgerow marked H14 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 50,
52 No The hedgerow marked H15 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 40,
53a, 54 No The important hedgerow marked H16 on page 3 of the habitats plan
Work No. 54 Yes The hedgerow marked H17 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work
No. 54 No The hedgerow marked H18 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 54
No The hedgerow marked H19 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 54 No The
hedgerow marked H20 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 55 No The hedgerow
marked H21 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 54 No The important
hedgerow marked H22 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 54 Yes The
important hedgerow marked H23 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 54, 57
Yes The important hedgerow marked H24 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work Nos.
54, 57 Yes The important hedgerow marked H25 on page 4 of the habitats plan
Work No. 72 Yes The important hedgerow marked H26 on page 4 of the habitats
plan Work No. 57 Yes The important hedgerow marked H27 on page 4 of the
habitats plan Work No. 57 Yes The hedgerow marked H28 on page 4 of the
habitats plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H29 on page 4 of the habitats
plan Work Nos. 57, 75 No The hedgerow marked H30 on page 4 of the habitats
plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H31 on page 4 of the habitats plan
Work Nos. 57, 80a, 80b, 80c, 81 No The hedgerow marked H32 on page 4 of the
habitats plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H33 on page 5 of the habitats
plan Work Nos. 85, 86 No The important hedgerow marked H34 on page 5 of the
habitats plan Work No. 87 Yes The important hedgerow marked H35 on page 6 of
the habitats plan Work Nos. 57, 89 Yes The hedgerow marked H36 on page 6 of
the habitats plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H37 on page 6 of the
habitats plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H38 on page 6 of the habitats
plan Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H39 on page 6 of the habitats plan
Work No. 57 No The hedgerow marked H40 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work
Nos. 95, 96, 97 No The hedgerow marked H41 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work
No. 91 No The hedgerow marked H42 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work No. 104
No The hedgerow marked H43 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work No. 91 No The
hedgerow marked H44 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 91, 109d No The
hedgerow marked H45 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 109d, 109b No The
hedgerow marked H46 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 104, 104a, 104b,
107, 109b, 110 No The hedgerow marked H47 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work
Nos. 104, 107, 109b No The hedgerow marked H48 on page 4 of the habitats plan
Work No. 80a No The hedgerow marked H49 on page 4 of the habitats plan Work
No. 80a No The important hedgerow marked H50 on page 7 of the habitats plan
Work No. 109b Yes The hedgerow marked H52 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work
No. 91 No The hedgerow marked H53 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work No. 111
No The hedgerow marked H54 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work No. 111 No The
hedgerow marked H55 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 96, 97 No The
important hedgerow marked H56 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work No. 95, 96,
97 Yes The hedgerow marked H58 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work No. 57 No
The hedgerow marked H59 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work No. 57 No The
hedgerow marked H61 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work No. 91 No The hedgerow
marked H62 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work No. 92 No The hedgerow marked
H63 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 103, 104 No The hedgerow marked
H64 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 91, 109d No The hedgerow marked
H65 on page 6 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 96, 97 No The hedgerow marked H66
on page 6 of the habitats plan Work Nos. 96, 97 No The hedgerow marked H68 on
page 7 of the habitats plan Work No. 104 No The hedgerow marked H69 on page 6
of the habitats plan Work No. 98c No The hedgerow marked H70 on page 6 of the
habitats plan Work Nos. 96, 97 No The hedgerow marked H71 on page 2 of the
habitats plan Work No. 29 No The hedgerow marked H72 on page 2 of the habitats
plan Work No. 29 No The hedgerow marked H73 on page 2 of the habitats plan
Work Nos. 20, 28, 29 No The hedgerow marked H74 on page 2 of the habitats plan
Work No. 20, 28 No The hedgerow marked H75 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work
No. 32 No The hedgerow marked H76 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 36
No The hedgerow marked H77 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 1 No The
important hedgerow marked H78 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 1 Yes
The hedgerow marked H79 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 1 No The
important hedgerow marked H80 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 1 Yes
The hedgerow marked H81 on page 2 of the habitats plan Work No. 21 No The
hedgerow marked H82 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow
marked H83 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow marked
H84 on page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow marked H85 on
page 3 of the habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow marked H86 on page 3
of the habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow marked H87 on page 3 of the
habitats plan Work No. 50 No The hedgerow marked H88 on page 4 of the habitats
plan Work No. 80a No The hedgerow marked H89 on page 4 of the habitats plan
Work No. 80a No The hedgerow marked H91 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work
Nos. 103, 104, 109b No The hedgerow marked H92 on page 4 of the habitats plan
Work No. 80c No The hedgerow marked H93 on page 7 of the habitats plan Work
No. 107 No

##### TREES SUBJECT TO TREE PRESERVATION ORDERS

          (1)         Name of Order / Type of tree         (2)         Work to
be carried out         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84
G1) (Oak) (not found at the time of survey) Remove single tree Work No. 89
Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84
G1) (Oak) (not found at the time of survey) Remove single tree Work No. 89
Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84
G1) (Oak) (not found at the time of survey) Remove single tree Work No. 89
Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84
G1) (Oak) (as shown on Sheet 52 of the tree constraints plan) Remove full
group of trees Work No. 89 Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton Road, Toseland,
Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84 G1) (Plum, Dogwood) (not found at the time of
survey) Remove part of tree group Work No. 89 Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton
Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84 T6) (Oak) (not found at the
time of survey) Remove single tree Work No. 89 Land at Croxton Estate, Croxton
Road, Toseland, Cambridgeshire (TPO No. 007/84 T7) (Oak) (not found at the
time of survey) Remove single tree Work No. 89 Land situated near to the north
west corner of enclosure No. 5917 (Parish: Croxton CP) (TPO No. 5/84/SC G1)
(Ash) (as shown on Sheet 48 of the tree constraints plan) Remove single tree
Work No. 89 Land situated near to the north west corner of enclosure No. 5917
(Parish: Croxton CP) (TPO No. 5/84/SC G1) (Ash / White Poplar / Field Maple)
(as shown on Sheet 48 of the tree constraints plan) Remove part of tree group
Work No. 89 Land at Weald Corner, Cambridge Road, Eynesbury, Cambridgeshire
(TPO No. 003/73 W1) (as shown on Sheet 45 of the tree constraints plan) Remove
part of tree group Work No. 85 Land situated within enclosure pt. 122 on
Ordnance Sheet Beds XII-4 1926 (Parish: Roxton) (TPO No. Roxton and Great
Barford Tree Preservation Order 1959 (7/190/2/031) assumed G7) (Oak, Horse
Chestnut, Sycamore, Lime, Ash) (as shown on Sheet 13 of the tree constraints
plan) Remove single tree Work Nos. 1, 3 Land situated within enclosure pt. 122
on Ordnance Sheet Beds XII-4 1926 (Parish: Roxton) (TPO No. Roxton and Great
Barford Tree Preservation Order 1959 (7/190/2/031) assumed G7) (Oak, Horse
Chestnut, Sycamore, Lime, Ash) (as shown on Sheet 13 of the tree constraints
plan) Remove single tree Work Nos. 1, 3 Land situated within enclosure pt. 122
on Ordnance Sheet Beds XII-4 1926 (Parish: Roxton) (TPO No. Roxton and Great
Barford Tree Preservation Order 1959 (7/190/2/031) assumed G7) (Oak, Horse
Chestnut, Sycamore, Lime, Ash) (as shown on Sheet 13 of the tree constraints
plan) Remove part of tree group Work Nos. 1, 3 Land situated within enclosure
pt. 122 on Ordnance Sheet Beds XII-4 1926 (Parish: Roxton) (TPO No. Roxton and
Great Barford Tree Preservation Order 1959 (7/190/2/031) assumed G7) (Oak,
Horse Chestnut, Sycamore, Lime, Ash) (as shown on Sheet 13 of the tree
constraints plan) Remove part of tree group Work Nos. 1, 3 Land situated
within enclosure Nos. 9144 and 1743 and land (Parish: Eltisley CP) (TPO No.
5/84/SC) (Hawthorn / Elm) (as shown on Sheet 49 of the tree constraints plan)
Remove full tree group Work Nos. 92, 93, 98b Land situated within enclosure
Nos 9144 and 1743 (Parish: Eltisley CP) (TPO No. 5/84/SC) (Ash / Hawthorn) (as
shown on Sheet 49 of the tree constraints plan) Remove part of tree group Work
Nos. 92, 93, 98b

PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Articles 39 and 47

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker;
in the case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging
to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas
Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of a water undertaker,
mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that utility
undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a sewerage
undertaker— any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the subject
of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4)  (adoption of
sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage disposal works at a
future date) of that Act , and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within
the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context
referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference
to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “plan” include
all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed; and “ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within the meaning
of the Water Industry Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Water Industry Act 1991, for the area of the authorised
development, and in relation to any apparatus, means the utility undertaker to
whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 18 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access
to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of
the utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 7 or the power of the undertaker to carry out works under paragraph
9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article 16 (temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition
and restriction of use of streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all
times to take all necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to
execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as
may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (7).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker must, on receipt of a written notice to
that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best
endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which
the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article 50 (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article 50 (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and
bring into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

7.7

If the utility undertaker in question fails either reasonably to approve, or
to provide reasons for its failure to approve along with an indication of what
would be required to make acceptable, any proposed details relating to
required removal works under sub-paragraph (2) within 28 days of receiving a
notice of the required works from the undertaker, then such details are deemed
to have been approved. For the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent”
does not extend to the actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall
remain the sole responsibility of the utility undertaker or its contractors.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 50 (arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) must be
made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under
sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
that value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 50 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph (1) must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2), or by
reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph (1), unless
the utility undertaker fails to carry out and execute the works properly with
due care and attention and in a skilful and professional like manner or in a
manner that does not accord with the approved plan.

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker who, if withholding such consent, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings necessary to
resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe
and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co- operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ; “ electronic
communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code; “ the electronic communications code ” has the same
meaning as in Chapter 1 (electronic communications, networks and services) of
Part 2 of the 2003 Act ; “ electronic communications code network ” means— so
much of an electronic communications network or infrastructure system provided
by an electronic communications code operator as is not excluded from the
application of the electronic communications code by a direction under section
106 (application of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and
an electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide; “ electronic communications code operator ” means a
person in whose case the electronic communications code is applied by a
direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act; “ infrastructure system ” has the
same meaning as in the electronic communications code and references to
providing an infrastructure system are to be construed in accordance with
paragraph 7(2) of that code; and “ operator ” means the operator of an
electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 39 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertakers works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) of the electronic communications code.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
50 (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruptions, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY AND DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES

###### Application

18

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect for the
protection of a drainage authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between
the undertaker and the drainage authority.

###### Interpretation

19

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ the agency ” means the Environment Agency; “ access route ” means an access
route used by the drainage authority prior to the commencement of construction
of a specified work for accessing a drainage work; “ construction ” includes
execution, placing, altering, replacing, relaying and removal and excavation
and “construct” and “constructed” are to be construed accordingly; “ drainage
authority ” means— in relation to an ordinary watercourse, the drainage board
concerned, within the meaning of section 23 (prohibitions of obstructions etc
in watercourses) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 ; and in relation to a main
river, the Environment Agency; “ drainage work ” means any watercourse and
includes any land which provides or is expected to provide flood storage
capacity for any watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other
structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for land drainage or flood
defence and any ancillary works constructed as a consequence of works carried
out for drainage purposes; “ emergency ” means an occurrence which presents a
risk of— serious flooding; serious detrimental impact on drainage; or serious
harm to the environment; “ fishery ” means any waters containing fish and fish
in, or migrating to or from, such waters and the spawn, spawning ground,
habitat or food of such fish; “ main river ” means all watercourses shown as
such on the statutory main river maps held by the Environment Agency and the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs including any structure or
appliance for controlling or regulating the flow of water in or out of the
channel; “ maintenance ” has the same meaning as in article 2(1)
(interpretation); “ ordinary watercourse ” has the meaning given in the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ; “ plans ” includes all designs, sections, drawings, risk
assessments, soil reports, drainage reports, specifications calculations and
method statements and other documents that are reasonably necessary in the
opinion of the undertaker to properly and sufficiently to describe the works
to be executed; “ specified work ” means so much of any work or operation
authorised by this Order as is in, on, under, over or within 8 metres of a
drainage work or is otherwise likely to— affect any drainage work or the
volumetric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any drainage work;
affect the flow, purity or quality of water in any watercourse or other
surface waters or ground water; cause obstruction to the free passage of fish
or damage to any fishery; affect the conservation, distribution or use of
water resources; or affect the conservation value of the main river and
habitats in its immediate vicinity; and “ watercourse ” includes all rivers,
streams, ditches, drains, cuts, culverts, dykes, sluices, basins, sewers and
passages through which water flows except a public sewer.

###### Construction of specified works

20

20.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, the undertaker must submit
to the drainage authority plans of the specified work and such further
particulars available to it as the drainage authority may within 28 days of
the receipt of the plans reasonably require.

20.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority, or determined
under paragraph  29 .

20.3

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

20.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed;

20.3.b

in relation to specified works to a main river is deemed to have been refused
if it is neither given nor refused within 2 months of the submission of the
plans, ignoring any time period commencing when the agency make a request for
further particulars until those particulars have been provided and, in the
case of a refusal, accompanied by a statement of the grounds of refusal;

20.3.c

in relation to specified works to an ordinary watercourse is deemed to have
been approved if it is neither given nor refused within 2 months of the
submission of the plans or receipt of further particulars if such particulars
have been requested by the drainage authority for approval and, in the case of
a refusal, accompanied by a statement of the grounds of refusal; and

20.3.d

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the drainage authority
may make for the protection of any drainage work, fishery or water resources
or for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the discharge of its
environmental duties including those under the Environment Act 1995 , the
Natural Environment and Rural Communities Act 2006  and the Water Environment
(Water Framework Directive) (England and Wales) Regulations 2017 .

20.4

The drainage authority must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the
submission of any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-
paragraph (3)(b) and  (3)(c) .

21

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  20 , but subject always to the
provisions of that paragraph as to reasonableness, the requirements which the
drainage authority may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring
the undertaker at its own expense to construct such protective works, whether
temporary or permanent, before or during the construction of the specified
works (including the provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other
new works and the strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or
embankments) as are reasonably necessary—

21.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

21.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

22

22.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 21, must be constructed—

22.1.a

without unreasonable delay;

22.1.b

in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to have been approved or
settled under this Schedule; and

22.1.c

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority,

and an officer of the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

22.2

The undertaker must give to the drainage authority not less than 14 days’
notice in writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified
work and notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the
date on which it is completed.

22.3

If the drainage authority reasonably requires, the undertaker must construct
all or part of the protective works so that they are in place prior to the
construction of any specified work to which the protective works relate.

22.4

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the
drainage authority is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the
requirements of this Part of this Schedule, the drainage authority may by
notice in writing require the undertaker at the undertaker’s own expense to
comply with the requirements of this Part of this Schedule or (if the
undertaker so elects and the agency in writing consents, such consent not to
be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work
and, where removal is required, to restore the site to its former condition to
such extent and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably
requires.

22.5

Subject to sub-paragraph (6) if, within a reasonable period, being not less
than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph (4) is served
upon the undertaker, the undertaker has failed to begin taking steps to comply
with the requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may
execute the works specified in the notice and any expenditure reasonably
incurred by the drainage authority in so doing is recoverable from the
undertaker.

22.6

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (4) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not except in the case of an emergency
exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (5) until the dispute has been
finally determined in accordance with paragraph  29 .

23

23.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (6), the undertaker must from the commencement of the
construction of a specified work, maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified work, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

23.2

If any such drainage work which the undertaker is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, the
drainage authority may by notice in writing require the person liable for
maintenance to repair and restore the work, or any part of such work, or (if
the person liable for maintenance so elects and the drainage authority in
writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to
remove the work and restore the site to its former condition, to such extent
and within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

23.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), if, within a reasonable period being not less
than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in respect of any
drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (2) on the person liable for
maintenance, that person has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
reasonable requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may
do what is necessary for such compliance and any expenditure reasonably
incurred by the drainage authority in so doing shall be recoverable from that
person.

23.4

If there is any failure by the undertaker to obtain consent or comply with
conditions imposed by the drainage authority in accordance with these
protective provisions the drainage authority may serve written notice
requiring the undertaker to cease all or part of the specified works and the
undertaker must cease the specified works or part of them until it has
obtained the consent or complied with the condition unless the cessation of
the specified works or part of them would cause greater damage than compliance
with the written notice.

23.5

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the drainage authority must not except
in the case of an emergency exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined in accordance with paragraph  29
.

23.6

This paragraph does not apply to—

23.6.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person, including the highway authority, is
liable to maintain and is not proscribed by the powers of this Order from
doing so; and

23.6.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

24

Subject to paragraph  27 , if by reason of the construction of any specified
work or of the failure of any such work the efficiency of any drainage work
for flood defence purposes is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, such impairment or damage must be made good by the undertaker to the
reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and if the undertaker fails
to do so, the drainage authority may make good the impairment or damage and
recover any expenditure reasonably incurred by the drainage authority in doing
so from the undertaker.

25

If by reason of construction of a specified work the drainage authority’s
access to flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access that will allow the drainage authority to access the flood defence or
equipment no less effectively than was possible before the obstruction within
24 hours of the undertaker becoming aware of such obstruction.

###### Works on the adopted highway

26

Except in an emergency nothing in paragraphs  22(5) , 23(3) and  24
authorises the drainage authority to execute works on or affecting a highway
maintainable at the public expense without the prior consent in writing of the
undertaker or the relevant highway authority, whichever is the highways
authority for the adopted highway in question, such consent is not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Expenses

27

The undertaker must pay to the drainage authority all costs, charges and
expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur or which it may
sustain in—

27.a

the examination or approval of plans under this Part of this Schedule;

27.b

the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the drainage authority under this Part of this Schedule; and

27.c

the carrying out of any surveys or tests by the drainage authority which are
reasonably required in connection with the construction of the specified
works.

28

28.1

Without prejudice to the other provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker is responsible for and must make reasonable compensation to the
drainage authority for all costs and losses not otherwise provided for in this
Part of this Schedule which may be reasonably incurred or suffered by the
drainage authority by reason of—

28.1.a

the construction of any specified works comprised within the authorised works;
or

28.1.b

any act or omission of the Applicant, its employees, contractors or agents or
others whilst engaged upon the construction of the authorised works.

28.2

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph  (1) , “ costs ” includes—

28.2.a

expenses and charges;

28.2.b

staff costs and overheads;

28.2.c

legal costs;

28.2.d

liabilities, claims and demands;

and “ losses ” includes physical damage.

28.3

For the avoidance of doubt, in sub-paragraph (2), liabilities includes—

28.3.a

contractual liabilities;

28.3.b

tortious liabilities;

28.3.c

liabilities to pay statutory compensation for breach of statutory duty;

28.3.d

liabilities to pay statutory penalties imposed on the basis of strict
liability (but does not include liabilities to pay other statutory penalties).

28.4

The drainage authority must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any
such claim or demand and no settlement or compromise shall be made without the
agreement of the undertaker which agreement shall not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

28.5

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by the undertaker in
accordance with a plan approved by the drainage authority, or to its
satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or award of an arbitrator,
does not relieve the undertaker from any liability under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

28.6

The drainage authority must not compromise or settle any such claim or make
any admission which might be prejudicial to the claim without the agreement of
the undertaker which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

28.7

The drainage authority must, at all times take reasonable steps to prevent and
mitigate any such claims, demands, proceedings, costs, damages, expenses or
loss.

###### Arbitration

29

Any dispute arising between the undertaker and the drainage authority under
this Part of this Schedule, may if the parties agree, be determined by
arbitration under article 50 (arbitration) but may otherwise be determined by
the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the
Secretary of State for Transport acting jointly on a reference to them by the
undertaker or the drainage authority, after notice in writing by one to the
other.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS ELECTRICITY AND GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

30

30.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

30.2

Subject to sub-paragraph (3) or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article 11 (consent to transfer
benefit of Order)—

30.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph (1) has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

30.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

30.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply where the benefit of the Order is transferred
or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph  41(3)(b) ).

###### Interpretation

31

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its
statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus
” means any electric lines or electrical plant as defined in the Electricity
Act 1989, belonging to or maintained by National Grid or any gas mains, pipes,
pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections, cables or other
apparatus belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the purposes of gas
supply together with any replacement apparatus and such other apparatus
constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus of
National Grid for the purposes of transmission, distribution or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as
is given to the term “authorised development” in article 2(1) of this Order
and includes any associated development authorised by the Order and for the
purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and maintenance of the
authorised works and construction of any works authorised by this Schedule;
“commence” and “commencement” in paragraph 38 and 39 of this Part   of this
Schedule includes any below ground surveys, monitoring, ground work operations
or the receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment; “ deed of
consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of variation or
new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in order to
vary or replace existing easements, agreements, and other such interests so as
to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to carry out, maintain,
operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with the terms of this
Part of this Schedule; “ functions ” includes powers and duties; “ ground
mitigation scheme ” means a scheme approved by National Grid (such approval
not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) setting out the necessary measures
(if any) for a ground subsidence event; “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a
scheme for monitoring ground subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is
to be subject to such monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the
manner in which ground levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any
monitoring activities and the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded,
requires the undertaker to submit for National Grid’s approval a ground
mitigation scheme; “ ground subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence
identified by the monitoring activities set out in the ground monitoring
scheme that has exceeded the level described in the ground monitoring scheme
as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or upon such land;
“maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the ability and right to do any of the
following in relation to any apparatus or alternative apparatus of National
Grid including construct, use, repair, alter, inspect, renew or remove the
apparatus; “ National Grid ” means National Grid Electricity Transmission Plc
(company number 02366977) whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London,
WC2N 5EH, or any successor as a licence holder within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Electricity Act 1989 and National Grid Gas Plc (company number 02006000)
whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH or any successor as
a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 as the
context requires; “plan” or “plans” include all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe and assess the works to be executed; “ specified
works ” means any of the authorised works or activities undertaken in
association with the authorised works which— will or may be situated over, or
within 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2)  or
otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any apparatus the removal of
which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2)  or
otherwise.

32

Except for paragraphs  33  (apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets),
38  (retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker) and  39
(retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker),  40  (expenses) and  41
(indemnity) of this Schedule which will apply in respect of the exercise of
all or any powers under the Order affecting the rights and apparatus of
National Grid, the other provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus
in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and National Grid are
regulated by the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

33

33.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 17 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if National Grid
has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid has
the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before
the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the
granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right
of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph  36  or the power of the undertaker, subject to compliance
with this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under paragraph  38 .

33.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or prohibition or
restriction of any highway under the powers of article 16 (temporary
alteration, diversion, prohibition and restriction of the use of streets),
National Grid is at liberty at all times to take all necessary access across
any such street and to execute and do all such works and things in, upon or
under any such highway as may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable
it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the stopping up, alteration,
diversion or restriction was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

34

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

35

35.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

35.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior
to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such other
timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker) that is
subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will cause any
conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or land
interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all
other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected
by such authorised works.

35.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

35.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 9 or 10 or
any other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

###### Removal of apparatus

36

36.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) to (5).

36.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph  37(1) ) the necessary facilities and rights—

36.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

36.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

36.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph (2) in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

36.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

36.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3),
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

37

37.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

37.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under paragraph
8(1) above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph  45  (Arbitration) of
this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of electricity undertaker

38

38.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan of the works to be executed and
seek from National Grid details of the underground extent of their electricity
tower foundations.

38.2

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
(i) 15 metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (ii) involve
embankment works within 15 metres of any apparatus, the plan to be submitted
to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include a method statement and
describe—

38.2.a

the exact position of the works;

38.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

38.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant;

38.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

38.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus;

38.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes; and

38.2.g

an assessment of risks of rise of earth issues.

38.3

In relation to any works which will or may be situated on, over, under or
within 10 metres of any part of the foundations of an electricity tower or
between any two or more electricity towers, the plan to be submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) must, in addition to the matters set out in sub-paragraph
(2), include a method statement describing—

38.3.a

details of any cable trench design including route, dimensions, clearance to
pylon foundations;

38.3.b

demonstration that pylon foundations will not be affected prior to, during and
post construction;

38.3.c

details of load bearing capacities of trenches;

38.3.d

details of any cable installation methodology including access arrangements,
jointing bays and backfill methodology;

38.3.e

a written management plan for high voltage hazard during construction and
ongoing maintenance of any cable route;

38.3.f

written details of the operations and maintenance regime for any cable,
including frequency and method of access;

38.3.g

assessment of earth rise potential if reasonably required by National Grid’s
engineers; and

38.3.h

evidence that trench bearing capacity is to be designed to support overhead
line construction traffic of up to 26 tonnes in weight.

38.4

The undertaker must not commence any works to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3)
apply until National Grid has given written approval of the plan so submitted.

38.5

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraphs (4)—

38.5.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (6) or (8); and,

38.5.b

must not be unreasonably withheld.

38.6

In relation to any work to which sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) apply, National
Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage, for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

38.7

Works executed under sub-paragraphs (2) or (3) must be executed in accordance
with the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1) or as relevant sub-paragraph
(6), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between the
undertaker and National Grid and in accordance with such reasonable
requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) by
National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be entitled to
watch and inspect the execution of those works.

38.8

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker (whether of a temporary or
permanent nature) such protective works, inclusive of any measures or schemes
required and approved as part of the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph,
must be carried out to National Grid’s satisfaction prior to the commencement
of any specified works for which protective works are required and National
Grid must give notice of its requirement for such works within 42 days of the
date of submission of a plan pursuant to this paragraph (except in an
emergency).

38.9

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (6) or (8) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  30  to  32  and  35  to  37  apply as if the removal
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2) .

38.10

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in
respect of the new plan.

38.11

The undertaker will not be required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs (6), (7) and (8) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

38.12

In sub-paragraph (11) “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to or to
prevent the occurrence of circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

39

39.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

39.2

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph (1) must include
a method statement and describe—

39.2.a

the exact position of the works;

39.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

39.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

39.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

39.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

39.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

39.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until National Grid has
given written approval of the plan so submitted.

39.4

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph (3)—

39.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs (5) or (7); and,

39.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

39.5

National Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

39.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

39.6.a

the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph (1), as approved or as amended from
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid; and

39.6.b

such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5) or (7) by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the protection
of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid will be
entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

39.7

Where under sub-paragraph (6) National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker such protective works (whether
of a temporary or permanent nature) must be carried out to National Grid’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works for which
protective works are required and National Grid must give notice of its
requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

39.8

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs (5) or (7) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs  30  to  32  and  35  to  37  apply as if the removal
of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  36(2) .

39.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

39.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised works—

39.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

39.10.b

National Grid retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective
works for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in
line with paragraph 11.

39.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National Grid
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must
comply with sub-paragraphs (5), (6) and (7) insofar as is reasonably
practicable in the circumstances.

39.12

In sub-paragraph (11), “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the
time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to
prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

40

40.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation—

40.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid—

40.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  36(3) ; or

40.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

40.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

40.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

40.1.d

the approval of plans;

40.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

40.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

40.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

40.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

40.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

40.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph  45  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

40.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

40.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

40.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

40.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

41

41.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

41.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

41.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

41.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1) unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

41.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

41.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

41.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 10 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

41.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

41.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

41.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

42

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

43

43.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  36(2)  or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph  38  or  39 , the
undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the
works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of
the authorised works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and
efficient operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use
its best endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

43.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this schedule, or agreement is required to
be reached between the parties under this Part of this Schedule, it must not
be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

44

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph  35(1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

45

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph  36(2) ,  36(4)  and
37(1) , any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with  article 50 (arbitration) .

###### Notices

46

Notwithstanding article 49 (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 9 or 10 must be sent to
National Grid Plant Protection at plantprotection@nationalgrid.com or such
other address as National Grid may from time to time appoint instead for that
purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

##### PROTECTION FOR NETWORK RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED

47

The following provisions of this Part of this Schedule have effect, unless
otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Network Rail and, in
the case of paragraph  61 , any other person on whom rights or obligations are
conferred by that paragraph.

48

In this Part of the Schedule—

“ construction ” includes execution, placing, alteration and reconstruction
and “construct” and “constructed” have corresponding meanings; “ the engineer
” means an engineer appointed by Network Rail for the purposes of this Order;
“ network licence ” means the network licence, as the same is amended from
time to time, granted to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited by the Secretary
of State in exercise of his powers under section 8  (licences) of the Railways
Act 1993; “ Network Rail ” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (company
number 02904587 whose registered office is at 1 Eversholtt Street, London, NW1
2DN) and any associated company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited which
holds property for railway purposes, and for the purpose of this definition “
associated company ” means any company which is (within the meaning of section
1159 (meaning of “ subsidiary ” etc.) of the Companies Act 2006  the holding
company of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited, a subsidiary of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited or another subsidiary of the holding company of Network
Rail Infrastructure Limited; “ plans ” includes sections, designs, design
data, software, drawings, specifications, soil reports, calculations,
descriptions (including descriptions of methods of construction), staging
proposals, programmes and details of the extent, timing and duration of any
proposed occupation of railway property; “ protective works ” means any works
specified by the engineer under paragraph  51(4) ; “ railway operational
procedures ” means procedures specified under any access agreement (as defined
in the Railways Act 1993) or station lease; “ railway property ” means any
railway belonging to Network Rail Infrastructure Limited and— any station,
land, works, apparatus and equipment belonging to Network Rail Infrastructure
Limited or connected with any such railway; and any easement or other property
interest held or used by Network Rail Infrastructure Limited for the purposes
of such railway or works, apparatus or equipment; and “ specified work ” means
so much of any of the authorised development as is situated upon, across,
under, over or within 15 metres of, or may in any way adversely affect,
railway property.

49

49.1

Where under this Part of this Schedule Network Rail is required to give its
consent or approval in respect of any matter, that consent or approval is
subject to the condition that Network Rail complies with any relevant railway
operational procedures and any obligations under its network licence or under
statute.

49.2

In so far as any specified work or the acquisition or use of railway property
is or may be subject to railway operational procedures, Network Rail must—

49.2.a

co-operate with the undertaker with a view to avoiding undue delay and
securing conformity as between any plans approved by the engineer and
requirements emanating from those procedures; and

49.2.b

use its reasonable endeavours to avoid any conflict arising between the
application of those procedures and the proper implementation of the
authorised development pursuant to this Order.

50

50.1

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by articles 24
(compulsory acquisition of land) or 27 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants) or the powers conferred by section 11(3)
(powers of entry) of the 1965 Act in respect of any railway property unless
the exercise of such powers is with the consent of Network Rail.

50.2

The undertaker must not in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order
prevent pedestrian or vehicular access to any railway property, unless
preventing such access is with the prior written consent of Network Rail.

50.3

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by sections 271
(extinguishment of rights of statutory undertakers: preliminary notices) or
272  (extinguishment of rights of electronic communications code network
operators: preliminary notices) of the 1990 Act, or article 39 (statutory
undertakers), in relation to any right of access of Network Rail to railway
property, but such right of access may be diverted with the prior written
consent of Network Rail.

50.4

The undertaker must not under the powers of this Order acquire or use or
acquire new rights over any railway property except with the consent of
Network Rail.

50.5

Where Network Rail is asked to give its consent pursuant to this paragraph,
such consent must not be unreasonably withheld but may be given subject to
reasonable conditions.

51

51.1

The undertaker must before commencing construction of any specified work
supply to Network Rail proper and sufficient plans of that work for the
reasonable approval of the engineer and the specified work must not be
commenced except in accordance with such plans as have been approved in
writing by the engineer or settled by in accordance with article 50
(arbitration).

51.2

The approval of the engineer under sub-paragraph (1) must not be unreasonably
withheld, and if by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date
on which such plans have been supplied to Network Rail the engineer has not
intimated his disapproval of those plans and the grounds of disapproval the
undertaker may serve upon the engineer written notice requiring the engineer
to intimate his approval or disapproval within a further period of 28 days
beginning with the date upon which the engineer receives written notice from
the undertaker. If by the expiry of the further 28 days the engineer has not
intimated his approval or disapproval, the engineer shall be deemed to have
approved the plans as submitted.

51.3

If by the end of the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which
written notice was served upon the engineer under sub-paragraph (2), Network
Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail desires itself to
construct any part of a specified work which in the opinion of the engineer
will or may affect the stability of railway property or the safe operation of
traffic on the railways of Network Rail then, if the undertaker desires such
part of the specified work to be constructed, Network Rail must construct it
without unnecessary delay on behalf of and to the reasonable satisfaction of
the undertaker in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to be approved
or settled under this paragraph, and under the supervision (where appropriate
and if given) of the undertaker.

51.4

When signifying approval of the plans the engineer may specify any protective
works (whether temporary or permanent) which in his opinion should be carried
out before the commencement of the construction of a specified work to ensure
the safety or stability of railway property or the continuation of safe and
efficient operation of the railways of Network Rail or the services of
operators using the same (including any relocation de-commissioning and
removal of works, apparatus and equipment necessitated by a specified work and
the comfort and safety of passengers who may be affected by the specified
works), and such protective works as may be reasonably necessary for those
purposes must be constructed by Network Rail or by the undertaker, if Network
Rail so desires, and such protective works must be carried out at the expense
of the undertaker in either case without unnecessary delay and the undertaker
must not commence the construction of the specified works until the engineer
has notified the undertaker that the protective works have been completed to
the engineer’s reasonable satisfaction.

52

52.1

Any specified work and any protective works to be constructed by virtue of
paragraph 5(4) must, when commenced, be constructed—

52.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or deemed to
have been approved or settled under paragraph  51 ;

52.1.b

under the supervision (where appropriate and if given) and to the reasonable
satisfaction of the engineer;

52.1.c

in such manner as to cause as little damage as is possible to railway
property; and

52.1.d

so far as is reasonably practicable, so as not to interfere with or obstruct
the free, uninterrupted and safe use of any railway of Network Rail or the
traffic thereon and the use by passengers of railway property.

52.2

If any damage to railway property or any such interference or obstruction
shall be caused by the carrying out of, or in consequence of the construction
of a specified work, the undertaker must, notwithstanding any such approval,
make good such damage and must pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to
which Network Rail may be put and compensation for any loss which it may
sustain by reason of any such damage, interference or obstruction.

52.3

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule imposes any liability on the undertaker
with respect to any damage, costs, expenses or loss attributable to the
negligence of Network Rail or its servants, contractors or agents or any
liability on Network Rail with respect of any damage, costs, expenses or loss
attributable to the negligence of the undertaker or its servants, contractors
or agents.

53

The undertaker must—

53.a

at all times afford reasonable facilities to the engineer for access to a
specified work during its construction; and

53.b

supply the engineer with all such information as the engineer may reasonably
require with regard to a specified work or the method of constructing it.

54

Network Rail must at all times afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker
and its agents for access to any works carried out by Network Rail under this
Part of this Schedule during their construction and must supply the undertaker
with such information as it may reasonably require with regard to such works
or the method of constructing them.

55

55.1

If any permanent or temporary alterations or additions to railway property,
are reasonably necessary in consequence of the construction of a specified
work, or during a period of 24 months after the completion of that work in
order to ensure the safety of railway property or the continued safe operation
of the railway of Network Rail, such alterations and additions may be carried
out by Network Rail and if Network Rail gives to the undertaker reasonable
written notice of its intention to carry out such alterations or additions
(which must be specified in the notice), the undertaker must pay to Network
Rail the reasonable cost of those alterations or additions including, in
respect of any such alterations and additions as are to be permanent, a
capitalised sum representing the increase of the costs which may be expected
to be reasonably incurred by Network Rail in maintaining, working and, when
necessary, renewing any such alterations or additions.

55.2

If during the construction of a specified work or a protective work by the
undertaker, Network Rail gives notice to the undertaker that Network Rail
desires itself to construct that part of the specified work or the protective
work which in the opinion of the engineer is endangering the stability of
railway property or the safe operation of traffic on the railways of Network
Rail then, if the undertaker decides that part of the specified work or the
protective work is to be constructed, Network Rail must assume construction of
that part of the specified work or the protective work and the undertaker
must, regardless of any such approval of a specified work under paragraph
51(3) , pay to Network Rail all reasonable expenses to which Network Rail may
be put and compensation for any loss which it may suffer by reason of the
execution by Network Rail of that specified work or protective work.

55.3

The engineer must, in respect of the capitalised sums referred to in this
paragraph and paragraph  56(a)  provide such details of the formula by which
those sums have been calculated as the undertaker may reasonably require.

55.4

If the cost of maintaining, working or renewing railway property is reduced in
consequence of any such alterations or additions a capitalised sum
representing such saving must be set off against any sum payable by the
undertaker to Network Rail under this paragraph.

56

The undertaker must repay to Network Rail all reasonable fees, costs, charges
and expenses reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

56.a

in constructing any part of a specified work on behalf of the undertaker as
provided by paragraph  51(3)  or in constructing any protective works under
the provisions of paragraph  51(4)  including, in respect of any permanent
protective works, a capitalised sum representing the cost of maintaining and
renewing those works;

56.b

in respect of the approval by the engineer of plans submitted by the
undertaker and the supervision by the engineer of the construction of a
specified work or a protective work;

56.c

in respect of the employment or procurement of the services of any inspectors,
signalmen, watchmen and other persons whom it shall be reasonably necessary to
appoint for inspecting, signalling, watching and lighting railway property and
for preventing, so far as may be reasonably practicable, interference,
obstruction, danger or accident arising from the construction or failure of a
specified work or a protective work;

56.d

in respect of any special traffic working resulting from any speed
restrictions which may in the opinion of the engineer, require to be imposed
by reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work
or a protective work or from the substitution of diversion of services which
may be reasonably necessary for the same reason; and

56.e

in respect of any additional temporary lighting of railway property in the
vicinity of the specified works, being lighting made reasonably necessary by
reason or in consequence of the construction or failure of a specified work or
a protective work.

57

57.1

In this paragraph—

“ EMI ” means, subject to sub-paragraph (2), electromagnetic interference with
Network Rail apparatus generated by the operation of the authorised
development where such interference is of a level which adversely affects the
safe operation of Network Rail’s apparatus; and “ Network Rail’s apparatus ”
means any lines, circuits, wires, apparatus or equipment (whether or not
modified or installed as part of the authorised development) which are owned
or used by Network Rail for the purpose of transmitting or receiving
electrical energy or of radio, telegraphic, telephonic, electric, electronic
or other like means of signalling or other communications.

57.2

This paragraph applies to EMI only to the extent that such EMI is not
attributable to any change to Network Rail’s apparatus carried out after
approval of plans under paragraph  51(1)  for the relevant part of the
authorised development giving rise to EMI (unless the undertaker has been
given notice in writing before the approval of those plans of the intention to
make such change).

57.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5), the undertaker must in the design and
construction of the authorised development take all measures necessary to
prevent EMI and must establish with Network Rail (both parties acting
reasonably) appropriate arrangements to verify their effectiveness.

57.4

In order to facilitate the undertaker’s compliance with sub-paragraph (3)—

57.4.a

the undertaker must consult with Network Rail as early as reasonably
practicable to identify all Network Rail’s apparatus which may be at risk of
EMI, and thereafter must continue to consult with Network Rail (both before
and after formal submission of plans under paragraph  51(1) ) in order to
identify all potential causes of EMI and the measures required to eliminate
them;

57.4.b

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker all information in the
possession of Network Rail reasonably requested by the undertaker in respect
of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph (a); and

57.4.c

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of Network Rail’s apparatus identified pursuant to sub-paragraph
(a).

57.5

In any case where it is established that EMI can only reasonably be prevented
by modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus, Network Rail must not withhold
its consent unreasonably to modifications of Network Rail’s apparatus, but the
means of prevention and the method of their execution must be selected in the
reasonable discretion of Network Rail and in relation to such modifications
paragraph  51(1)  has effect subject to this sub-paragraph.

57.6

If at any time prior to the commencement of regular revenue-earning operations
on the authorised railway comprised in the authorised development and
notwithstanding any measures adopted pursuant to sub-paragraph (3), the
testing or commissioning of the authorised development causes EMI then the
undertaker must immediately upon receipt of notification by Network Rail of
such EMI either in writing or communicated orally (such oral communication to
be confirmed in writing as soon as reasonably practicable after it has been
issued) forthwith cease to use (or procure the cessation of use of) the
undertaker’s apparatus causing such EMI until all measures necessary have been
taken to remedy such EMI by way of modification to the source of such EMI or
(in the circumstances, and subject to the consent, specified in sub-paragraph
(5)) to Network Rail’s apparatus.

57.7

In the event of EMI having occurred—

57.7.a

the undertaker must afford reasonable facilities to Network Rail for access to
the undertaker’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI;

57.7.b

Network Rail must afford reasonable facilities to the undertaker for access to
Network Rail’s apparatus in the investigation of such EMI; and

57.7.c

Network Rail must make available to the undertaker any additional material
information in its possession reasonably requested by the undertaker in
respect of Network Rail’s apparatus or such EMI.

57.8

Where Network Rail approves modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus pursuant
to sub-paragraphs (5) or (6)—

57.8.a

Network Rail must allow the undertaker reasonable facilities for the
inspection of the relevant part of Network Rail’s apparatus;

57.8.b

any modifications to Network Rail’s apparatus approved pursuant to those sub-
paragraphs must be carried out and completed by the undertaker in accordance
with paragraph 6.

57.9

To the extent that it would not otherwise do so, the indemnity in paragraph
61(1)  applies to the costs and expenses reasonably incurred or losses
suffered by Network Rail through the implementation of the provisions of this
paragraph (including costs incurred in connection with the consideration of
proposals, approval of plans, supervision and inspection of works and
facilitating access to Network Rail’s apparatus) or in consequence of any EMI
to which sub-paragraph (6) applies.

57.10

For the purpose of paragraph  56(a)  any modifications to Network Rail’s
apparatus under this paragraph shall be deemed to be protective works referred
to in that paragraph.

58

If at any time after the completion of a specified work or a protective work,
not being a work vested in Network Rail, Network Rail gives written notice to
the undertaker informing it that the state of maintenance of any part of the
specified work or a protective work appears to be such as adversely affects
the operation of railway property, the undertaker must (to the extent it is
reasonable to do so), on receipt of such written notice, take such steps as
may be necessary to put that specified work or a protective work in such state
of maintenance as not adversely to affect railway property.

59

The undertaker must not provide any illumination or illuminated sign or signal
on or in connection with a specified work or a protective work in the vicinity
of any railway belonging to Network Rail unless it has first consulted Network
Rail and it must comply with Network Rail’s reasonable requirements for
preventing confusion between such illumination or illuminated sign or signal
and any railway signal or other light used for controlling, directing or
securing the safety of traffic on the railway.

60

Any additional expenses which Network Rail may reasonably incur in altering,
reconstructing or maintaining railway property under any powers existing at
the making of this Order by reason of the existence of a specified work or a
protective work must, provided that not less than 56 days’ previous notice of
the commencement of such alteration, reconstruction or maintenance has been
given to the undertaker, be repaid by the undertaker to Network Rail.

61

61.1

The undertaker must pay to Network Rail all reasonable costs, charges, damages
and expenses not otherwise provided for in this Part of this Schedule which
may be occasioned to or reasonably incurred by Network Rail—

61.1.a

by reason of the construction or maintenance of a specified work or a
protective work or the failure thereof; or

61.1.b

by reason of any act or omission of the undertaker or of any person in its
employ or of its contractors or others whilst engaged upon a specified work or
a protective work,

and the undertaker must indemnify and keep indemnified Network Rail from and
against all claims and demands arising out of or in connection with a
specified work or a protective work or any such failure, act or omission: and
the fact that any act or thing may have been done by Network Rail on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with plans approved by the engineer or in
accordance with any requirement of the engineer or under the engineer’s
supervision shall not (if it was done without negligence on the part of
Network Rail or of any person in its employ or of its contractors or agents)
excuse the undertaker from any liability under the provisions of this sub-
paragraph.

61.2

Network Rail must give the undertaker reasonable written notice (and in any
event not less than 7 days) of any such claim or demand and no settlement or
compromise of such a claim or demand shall be made without the prior written
consent of the undertaker.

61.3

The sums payable by the undertaker under sub-paragraph (1) shall include a sum
equivalent to the relevant costs to the extent such costs result from the
actions or omissions of the undertaker.

61.4

Subject to the terms of any agreement between Network Rail and a train
operator regarding the timing or method of payment of the relevant costs in
respect of that train operator, Network Rail must promptly pay to each train
operator the amount of any sums which Network Rail receives under sub-
paragraph (3) which relates to the relevant costs of that train operator.

61.5

The obligation under sub-paragraph (3) to pay Network Rail the relevant costs
is, in the event of default, enforceable directly by any train operator
concerned to the extent that such sums would be payable to that operator
pursuant to sub-paragraph (4).

61.6

In this paragraph—

“ the relevant costs ” means the costs, direct losses and expenses (including
loss of revenue) reasonably incurred by each train operator as a consequence
of any restriction of the use of Network Rail’s railway network as a result of
the construction, maintenance or failure of a specified work or a protective
work or any such act or omission as mentioned in subparagraph (1); and “ train
operator ” means any person who is authorised to act as the operator of a
train by a licence under section 8 (licences) of the Railways Act 1993.

62

Network Rail must, on receipt of a request from the undertaker, from time to
time provide the undertaker free of charge with written estimates of the
costs, charges, expenses and other liabilities for which the undertaker is or
will become liable under this Part of this Schedule (including the amount of
the relevant costs mentioned in paragraph  61 ) and with such information as
may reasonably enable the undertaker to assess the reasonableness of any such
estimate or claim made or to be made pursuant to this Part of this Schedule
(including any claim relating to those relevant costs).

63

In the assessment of any sums payable to Network Rail under this Part of this
Schedule there must not be taken into account any increase in the sums claimed
that is attributable to any action taken by or any agreement entered into by
Network Rail if that action or agreement was not reasonably necessary and was
taken or entered into with a view to obtaining the payment of those sums by
the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or increasing the sums so
payable.

64

The undertaker and Network Rail may, subject in the case of Network Rail to
compliance with the terms of its network licence, enter into, and carry into
effect, agreements for the transfer to the undertaker of—

64.a

any railway property shown on the works plans or lands plans and described in
the book of reference;

64.b

any lands, works or other property held in connection with any such railway
property; and

64.c

any rights and obligations (whether or not statutory) of Network Rail relating
to any railway property or any lands, works or other property referred to in
this paragraph.

65

Nothing in this Order, or in any enactment incorporated with or applied by
this Order, prejudices or affects the operation of Part I of the Railways Act
1993.

66

The undertaker must give written notice to Network Rail if any application is
proposed to be made by the undertaker for the Secretary of State’s consent,
under article 9 (benefit of Order) of this Order and any such notice must be
given no later than 28 days before any such application is made and must
describe or give (as appropriate)—

66.a

the nature of the application to be made;

66.b

the extent of the geographical area to which the application relates; and

66.c

the name and address of the person acting for the Secretary of State to whom
the application is to be made.

67

The undertaker must no later than 28 days from the date that the plans and
documents submitted to and certified by the Secretary of State in accordance
with   article 48   (certification of documents, etc.) are certified by the
Secretary of State, provide a set of those plans and documents to Network Rail
in an agreed electronic read only format.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF EXOLUM PIPELINE SYSTEM LTD

###### Application

68

For the protection of Exolum the following provisions, unless otherwise agreed
in writing at any time between the undertaker and Exolum, have effect.

###### Interpretation

69

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Exolum to fulfil its functions as a pipe-line operator in a manner no less
efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means the pipe-line and storage
system owned or maintained by Exolum and includes any structure in which
apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus; “ Exolum ” means Exolum Pipeline System Ltd (company number
09497223 whose registered office is 1st Floor 55 King William Street, London,
England, EC4R 9AD) and any successor in title; “ functions ” includes powers
and duties; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus
in land, includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under,
over or upon land; “ pipe-line ” means the whole or any part of a pipe-line
belonging to or maintained by Exolum and includes any ancillary works and
apparatus; all protective wrappings, valves, sleeves and slabs, cathodic
protection units, together with ancillary cables and markers; and such legal
interest and benefit of property rights and covenants as are vested in Exolum
in respect of those items; “ plan ” includes all designs, drawings,
specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes, calculations,
risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably necessary properly
and sufficiently to describe the works to be executed; “ specified work ”
means any work which will or may be situated on, over, under or within 15
metres measured in any direction of any apparatus, or (wherever situated)
impose any load directly upon any apparatus or involve embankment works within
15 metres of any apparatus; and “ working day ” means any day other than a
Saturday, Sunday or English bank or public holiday.

###### Acquisition of apparatus

70

Irrespective of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land
plans—

70.a

the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus or obstruct or render less
convenient the access to any apparatus, otherwise than by agreement with
Exolum; and

70.b

any right of Exolum to maintain, repair, renew, adjust, alter or inspect any
apparatus must not be extinguished by the undertaker until any necessary
alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Exolum.

###### Removal of apparatus and rights for alternative apparatus

71

71.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or over
which access to any apparatus is enjoyed or requires that any apparatus is
relocated or diverted, that apparatus must not be removed by the undertaker
and any right of Exolum to maintain and use that apparatus in that land and to
gain access to it must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has
been constructed and is in operation, and access to it has been provided, to
the reasonable satisfaction of Exolum.

71.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give Exolum not less
than 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a plan of the
work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence of the exercise
of any of the powers conferred by this Order Exolum reasonably needs to remove
any apparatus) the undertaker must, subject to subparagraph (3), afford to
Exolum the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of alternative
apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance
of that apparatus.

71.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the undertaker must afford to and, if necessary, acquire for the
benefit of Exolum the necessary facilities and rights (equivalent to those
currently enjoyed by Exolum) for the construction, maintenance and use of the
alternative apparatus and access to it.

71.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Exolum and the undertaker or in default
of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 50
(arbitration).

71.5

Exolum must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed or settled in accordance with article  50 , and after the grant to
Exolum of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs
(2) and (3), proceed as soon as reasonably practicable using all reasonable
endeavours to construct and bring into operation the alternative apparatus and
subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed
under the provisions of this Schedule.

71.6

Irrespective of sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in writing
to Exolum that it desires itself to execute any work, or part of any work in
connection with the construction, removal or decommissioning of apparatus in
the land of the undertaker or the construction of alternative apparatus, that
work, instead of being executed by Exolum, must be executed by the undertaker
without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if required, and to the
reasonable satisfaction of Exolum.

71.7

Nothing in sub-paragraph (6) authorises the undertaker to execute the placing,
installation, bedding, packing, removal, connection or disconnection of any
apparatus, or execute any filling around the apparatus (where the apparatus is
laid in a trench) within 3000 millimetres of the apparatus without Exolum’s
consent.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

72

72.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to Exolum facilities and rights for the construction and
maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative apparatus in substitution
for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and rights are to be granted
upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between the undertaker and
Exolum or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 50 (arbitration).

72.2

In settling those terms and conditions in respect of alternative apparatus the
arbitrator must—

72.2.a

give effect to all reasonable requirements of the undertaker for ensuring the
safety and efficient operation of the authorised development and for securing
any subsequent alterations or adaptations of the alternative apparatus which
may be required to prevent interference with any proposed works of the
undertaker or the traffic on the highway; and

72.2.b

so far as it may be reasonable and practicable to do so in the circumstances
of the particular case, give effect to the terms and conditions, if any,
applicable to the apparatus for which the alternative apparatus is to be
substituted.

72.3

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Exolum than the facilities and rights enjoyed
by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and conditions
to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator must make
such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to Exolum as
appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection

73

73.1

Unless a shorter period is otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker
and Exolum, not less than 28 days before commencing any specified work in
relation to apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the
undertaker under sub-paragraph  72(2) , the undertaker must submit to Exolum a
plan of the works to be executed.

73.2

The specified work must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted
under subparagraph (1) and approved by Exolum in accordance with sub-paragraph
(4) by Exolum for the alteration or otherwise for the protection of the
apparatus, or for securing access to it; and Exolum is entitled to watch and
inspect the execution of the specified work.

73.3

Any requirements made by Exolum under sub-paragraph (2) must be made within a
period of 14 days (unless a shorter period is otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Exolum) beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

73.4

If Exolum in accordance with sub-paragraph (2) and in consequence of the works
proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any apparatus
and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, this Part of
this Schedule applies as if the removal of the apparatus had been required by
the undertaker under sub-paragraph 89(2).

73.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time but (unless otherwise agreed in writing between the
undertaker and Exolum) in no case less than 28 days before commencing any
specified work, a new plan, instead of the plan previously submitted, and
having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of the
new plan.

73.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to Exolum notice of the works it
intends to carry out to remedy the emergency together with a plan as soon as
is reasonably practicable and must comply with subparagraph (2) in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

73.7

In relation to any specified work, the plan to be submitted to Exolum under
sub-paragraph (1) must include a material statement describing—

73.7.a

the exact position of the work;

73.7.b

the level at which the work is to be constructed or renewed;

73.7.c

the manner of its construction or renewal;

73.7.d

the position of any apparatus; and

73.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to the
apparatus.

###### Cathodic protection testing

74

Where in the reasonable opinion of the undertaker—

74.a

the authorised development might interfere with the existing cathodic
protection forming part of a pipe-line; or

74.b

a pipe-line might interfere with the proposed or existing cathodic protection
forming part of the authorised development,

Exolum and the undertaker must co-operate in undertaking the tests which the
undertaker considers reasonably necessary for ascertaining the nature and
extent of such interference and measures for providing or preserving cathodic
protection.

###### Expenses

75

75.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Exolum the reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Exolum in, or in
connection with—

75.1.a

the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of any apparatus; or

75.1.b

the construction of any new apparatus; or

75.1.c

the watching and inspecting the execution of any specified work; or

75.1.d

imposing reasonable requirements for the protection or alteration of
apparatus,

which may reasonably be required in consequence of the execution of any such
works as are required under this Schedule.

75.2

The scrap value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of
Schedule is to be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that
value being calculated after removal.

75.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

75.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions (except where this has been solely due to
using the nearest currently available type); or

75.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration in accordance with article 50 (arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to Exolum by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) is
reduced by the amount of that excess.

75.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

75.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

75.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

75.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Exolum in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Exolum any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, is
to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Damage to property and other losses

76

76.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must—

76.1.a

pay Exolum for all loss, damage, liability, costs and expenses reasonably
suffered or incurred by Exolum for which Exolum is legally liable as a result
of legally sustainable claims brought against Exolum by any third party solely
arising out of the carrying out of any relevant works and any protective
building works;

76.1.b

pay the cost reasonably incurred by Exolum in making good any damage to any
apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal or abandonment) arising from or
caused by the carrying out of any relevant works or protective building work;
(2) The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Exolum on behalf of
the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Exolum or in
accordance with any requirement of Exolum or under its supervision does not,
subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the undertaker from liability under the
provisions of sub-paragraph (1);

76.1.c

pay the cost reasonably incurred by Exolum in stopping, suspending and
restoring the supply through its pipeline and make reasonable compensation to
Exolum for any other expenses, losses, damages, penalty or costs incurred by
Exolum by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption provided
that the same arises in consequence of the carrying out of any relevant works
and any protective building works.

76.2

Irrespective of anything to the contrary elsewhere in this Part of this
Schedule—

76.2.a

the undertaker and Exolum must at all times take reasonable steps to prevent
and mitigate any loss, damage, liability, claim, cost or expense (whether
indemnified or not) which either suffers as a result of the other’s negligence
or breach of this Part of this Schedule; and

76.2.b

neither the undertaker nor Exolum are liable for any loss, damage, liability,
claim, cost or expense suffered or incurred by the other to the extent that
the same are incurred as a result of or in connection with the sole, partial
or complete breach of this Part of this Schedule or negligence arising out of
an act, omission, default or works of the other, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

76.3

Exolum must give to the undertaker reasonable notice of any claim or demand to
which this paragraph  76  applies. The undertaker may at its own expense
conduct all negotiations for the settlement of the same and any litigation
that may arise therefrom. Exolum must not compromise or settle any such claim
or make any admission which might be prejudicial to the claim. Exolum must, at
the request of the undertaker, afford all reasonable assistance for the
purpose of contesting any such claim or action, and is entitled to be repaid
all reasonable expenses incurred in so doing.

76.4

In this paragraph—

“ protective building works ” means the exercise by the undertaker of the
powers conferred by article 22 (protective works to buildings); and “ relevant
works ” means such of the authorised development as— does, will or is likely
to affect any apparatus; or involves a physical connection or attachment to
any apparatus.

###### Co-operation and reasonableness

77

77.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker requires the removal of apparatus under this Part
of this Schedule or Exolum makes requirements for the protection or alteration
of apparatus under this Part of this Schedule, the undertaker must use its
best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Exolum’s undertaking and Exolum must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

77.2

The undertaker and Exolum must act reasonably in respect of any given term of
this Part of this Schedule and, in particular, (without prejudice to
generality) where any consent or expression of satisfaction is required by
this Part of this Schedule it must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Miscellaneous

78

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Exolum in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the undertaker
on the date on which this Order is made provided that the terms of the
relevant enactment or agreement are not inconsistent with the provisions of
this Order, including this Part of this Schedule. In the case of any
inconsistency, the provisions of this Order, including this Part of this
Schedule, prevail.

###### Emergency Circumstances

79

79.1

The Promoter acknowledges that Exolum provides services to Her Majesty’s
Government, using its apparatus, which may affect any works to be carried
under this Order.

79.2

In the following circumstances, Exolum may on written notice to the Promoter
immediately suspend all works that necessitate the stopping or suspending of
the supply of product through any apparatus under this Order and Exolum shall
not be in breach of its obligations to proceed—

79.2.a

circumstances in which, in the determination of the Secretary of State, there
subsists a material threat to national security, or a threat or state of
hostility or war or other crisis or national emergency (whether or not
involving hostility or war); or

79.2.b

circumstances in which a request has been received, and a decision to act upon
such request has been taken, by Her Majesty’s Government for assistance in
relation to the occurrence or anticipated occurrent of a major accident,
crisis or natural disaster; or

79.2.c

circumstances in which a request has been received from or on behalf of NATO,
the EU, the UN, the International Energy Agency (or any successor agency
thereof) or the government of any other state for support or assistance
pursuant to the United Kingdom’s international obligations and a decision to
act upon such request has been taken by Her Majesty’s Government or the
Secretary of State; or

79.2.d

any circumstances identified as such by the COBRA committee of Her Majesty’s
Government (or any successor committee thereof); or

79.2.e

any situation, including where the United Kingdom is engaged in any planned or
unplanned military operations within the United Kingdom or overseas, in
connection with which the Secretary of State requires fuel capacity.

79.3

The parties agree to act in good faith and in all reasonableness to agree any
revisions to any schedule, programme or costs estimate (which shall include
costs of demobilising and remobilising any workforce, and any costs to protect
Exolum’s apparatus “mid-works”) to account for the suspension.

79.4

Exolum shall not be liable for any costs, expenses, losses or liabilities the
Promoter incurs as a result of the suspension of any activities under this
paragraph or delays caused by it.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER SERVICES LIMITED

###### Application

80

For the protection of Anglian Water the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

###### Interpretation

81

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable
Anglian Water to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient
than previously; “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited
(company number 02366656 whose registered address is Lancaster House Lancaster
Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United Kingdom, PE29
6XU; “ apparatus ” means: works, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to
or maintained by Anglian Water for the purposes of water supply and sewerage;
any drain or works vested in Anglian Water under the Water Industry Act 1991 ;
any sewer which is so vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to
adopt given under section 102(4)  of that Act or an agreement to adopt made
under section 104  of that Act, and includes a sludge main, disposal main or
sewer outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in
which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to
apparatus

and for the purpose of this definition, where words are defined by section 219
of the Water Industry Act 1991 they shall be taken to have the same meaning;

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in”, in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed;

###### On street apparatus

82

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

83

83.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 18 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), where Anglian
Water has apparatus in the street or accessed by virtue of that street, it has
the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Anglian
Water legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Anglian Water in respect of
such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any
right of the undertaker or of Anglian Water to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph  86  or the power of the undertaker to carry out
works under paragraph  88 .

83.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article 17 (temporary alteration, diversion, prohibition
and restriction of the use of streets), Anglian Water is at liberty at all
times to take all necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to
execute and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as
may be reasonably necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any
apparatus which at the time of the stopping up or diversion was in that
highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

84

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 22 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

85

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

86

86.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that Anglian Water’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must
not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Anglian
Water to maintain that apparatus in that land must not (without the prior
written consent of Anglian Water) be extinguished, until—

86.1.a

alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2)
to (8); and

86.1.b

facilities and rights have been secured for that alternative apparatus in
accordance with paragraph 87.

86.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Anglian Water 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a
plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an undertaker
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph (3), afford to Anglian Water the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

86.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect
from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best endeavours to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

86.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Anglian Water and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article 50
(arbitration).

86.5

Anglian Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article 50, and after the grant to Anglian Water of any such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs (2) or (3), proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the undertaker
to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

86.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if Anglian Water gives notice in
writing to the undertaker that it desires itself to execute any work, or part
of any work in connection with the construction or removal of apparatus in any
land of the undertaker or to the extent that Anglian Water fails to proceed
with that work in accordance with sub-paragraph (5) or the undertaker and
Anglian Water otherwise agree, that work, instead of being executed by Anglian
Water, must be executed by the undertaker without unnecessary delay under the
superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable satisfaction of Anglian
Water.

86.7

Notice under sub-paragraph (6) that Anglian Water desires the undertaker to
execute any work, or part of any work, must be given within 14 days of
agreement under sub-paragraph (4) or, in default of agreement, within 14 days
of the date of settlement by arbitration under sub-paragraph (4).

86.8

If Anglian Water fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide reasons for
its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be required to
make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal works under
sub-paragraph (2) within 28 days of receiving a notice of the required works
from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been approved. For
the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent” does not extend to the
actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain the sole
responsibility of Anglian Water or its contractors.

86.9

Whenever alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use best endeavours to comply with Anglian Water’s
reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to enable Anglian Water
to—

86.9.a

make network contingency arrangements; or

86.9.b

bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

87

87.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Anglian Water or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article 50 (arbitration).

87.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Anglian Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Anglian Water as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

87.3

Such facilities and rights as are set out in this paragraph are deemed to
include any statutory permits granted to the undertaker in respect of the
apparatus in question, whether under the Environmental Permitting Regulations
2016  or other legislation.

###### Retained apparatus

88

88.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus (or any means of access to it)
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
86(2), the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a plan of the works to be
executed.

88.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph (1) and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by Anglian Water for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to watch and inspect the execution
of those works.

88.3

Any requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph (2) must be made
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph (1) is submitted to it.

88.4

If Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement,
paragraphs 80 to 82 and 85 to 87 apply as if the removal of the apparatus had
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 86(2).

88.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

88.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3) in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and will keep the impact of
those emergency works on Anglian Water’s apparatus, on the operation of its
water and sewerage network and on end-users of the services Anglin water
provides to a minimum.

88.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (1), works are deemed to be in land near
Anglian Water’s apparatus (where it is a pipe) if those works fall within the
following distances measured from the medial line of such apparatus—

88.7.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

88.7.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres

88.7.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 451 and 750 millimetres;
and

88.7.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres.

###### Expenses and costs

89

89.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Anglian Water all expenses reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this
Part of the Schedule.

89.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under subparagraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
that value being calculated after removal.

89.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

89.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

89.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article 50 (arbitration) to be necessary, then,
if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this Part of
this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the apparatus
placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at the
existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to Anglian Water by virtue of sub-paragraph (1)
must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

89.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

89.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

89.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

89.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian
Water in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1), if the works include
the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more
than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Anglian Water any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

90

90.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 84 or 86(2), or by
reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of Anglian Water, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

90.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

90.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

90.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Anglian Water on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Anglian Water or in
accordance with any requirement of Anglian Water or under its supervision does
not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the undertaker from liability under
the provisions of sub-paragraph (1) unless Anglian Water fails to carry out
and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a skilful
and professional like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

90.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

90.4

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) who,
if withholding such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

91

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Anglian Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph 86(2) or Anglian Water makes requirements for the protection
or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 88, the undertaker must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of Anglian Water’s undertaking and Anglian Water must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

92

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by Anglian Water but which does not appear on any statutory map
kept for the purpose by Anglian Water, it shall inform Anglian Water of the
existence and location of the apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

93

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

94

Any time period in which an action must be taken in this part of the Schedule
may be amended by written agreement between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF CADENT GAS LIMITED

###### Application

95

For the protection of Cadent the following provisions will, unless otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and Cadent, have effect.

###### Interpretation

96

In this Part of the Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the
reasonable satisfaction of Cadent to enable Cadent to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means
any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections,
cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Cadent for the
purposes of Cadent’s undertaking together with any replacement apparatus and
such other apparatus constructed pursuant to this Order that becomes
operational apparatus of Cadent for the purposes of Cadent’s undertaking and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised development ” shall have the
same meaning as in the Order; “ Cadent ” means Cadent Gas Limited and includes
its successors in title or any successor as a gas transporter within the
meaning of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986; “ Cadent’s undertaking ” means the
rights, duties and obligations of Cadent Gas Limited as a public gas
transporter within the meaning of Section 7 (licensing of public gas
transporters)  of the Gas Act 1986 (as amended by the Gas Act 1995); “
commence ” has the same meaning as in article 2(1) of the Order and “
commencement ” shall be construed to have the same meaning save that for the
purposes of this Part of the Schedule the terms “ commence ” and “
commencement ” include any below ground surveys, monitoring, work operations,
remedial work in respect of any contamination or other adverse ground
conditions, the receipt and erection of construction plant and equipment, and
non-intrusive investigations for the purpose of assessing ground conditions; “
deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement, deed of
variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting reasonably in
order to vary or replace existing easements, agreements, enactments and other
such interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are necessary to
carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner consistent with
the terms of this Part of this Schedule; “facilities and rights” for
construction and for maintenance include any appropriate working areas
required to reasonably and safely undertake that construction or maintenance,
and any necessary rights of access; “ functions ” includes powers and duties;
“ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground subsidence
which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such monitoring, the
extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground levels are to be
monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and the extent of
ground subsidence which, if exceeded, requires the undertaker to submit for
Cadent’s approval a ground monitoring scheme; “ ground subsidence event ”
means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring activities set out in
the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level described in the
ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation scheme; “in” in a
context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a
reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over, across, along or
upon such land; “maintain” and “ maintenance ” for the purposes of this Part
of the Schedule shall have effect as if Cadent’s existing apparatus was
authorised development and as if the term maintain includes protect and use,
improve, landscape, preserve, decommission, refurbish or replace; “plan” or
“plans” include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; “ rights ” includes restrictive covenants and, in
relation to decommissioned apparatus, the surrender of rights, release of
liabilities and transfer of decommissioned apparatus; and “ specified works ”
means any of the authorised development or activities (including maintenance)
undertaken in association with the authorised development which— will or may
be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
sub-paragraph 101(2) (removal of apparatus) or otherwise; or may in any way
adversely affect any apparatus the removal of which has not been required by
the undertaker under sub-paragraph 101(2) (removal of apparatus) or otherwise.

###### On Street apparatus

97

97.1

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent are regulated by the provisions of
Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act, except for—

97.1.a

paragraphs 98 (apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets), 103 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent, 104 (expenses) and 105 (indemnity); and

97.1.b

where sub-paragraph (2) applies, paragraphs 101 (removal of apparatus) and 102
(facilities and rights for alternative apparatus).

97.2

This sub-paragraph applies where any apparatus is diverted from an alignment
within the existing adopted public highway but not wholly replaced within the
existing adopted public highway, notwithstanding that any diversion may be
carried out under the provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

97.3

Paragraph 104 does not apply where the authorised development constitutes
major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works for the
purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

97.3.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

97.3.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and Cadent in such
proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

###### Apparatus of Cadent in stopped up streets

98

98.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 18 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if Cadent has any
apparatus in the street or accessed via that street Cadent is entitled to the
same rights in respect of such apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the
stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Cadent, or procure the granting
to Cadent of legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Cadent in respect of
such apparatus and access to it prior to the stopping up of any such street or
highway, but nothing in this paragraph shall affect any right of the
undertaker or of Cadent to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 101 (removal of apparatus).

98.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of use of
any street under the powers of article 17 (temporary alteration, diversion,
prohibition and restriction of use of streets), Cadent will be at liberty at
all times to take all necessary access across any such street and to execute
and do all such works and things in, upon or under any such street as it would
have been entitled to do immediately before such temporary alteration,
diversion or restriction of use in respect of any apparatus which at the time
of the stopping up or diversion was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

99

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to building) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of Cadent (such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed).

###### Acquisition of land

100

100.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans
of contained in the book of reference to the Order, the undertaker may not
appropriate or acquire any interest in land or appropriate, acquire,
extinguish, interfere with or override any easement or other interest in land
of Cadent otherwise than by agreement.

100.2

As a condition of agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph (1), prior to
the carrying out or maintenance of any part of the authorised development (or
in such other timeframe as may be agreed between Cadent and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of Cadent or affect the provisions of any enactment or agreement
regulating the relations between Cadent and the undertaker in respect of any
apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by the undertaker,
the undertaker must as Cadent reasonably requires enter into such deeds of
consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker acting reasonably and which must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent unless otherwise agreed by Cadent, and it will be the responsibility
of the undertaker to procure or secure the consent and entering into of such
deeds and variations by all other third parties with an interest in the land
at that time who are affected by such authorised development or maintenance
thereof.

100.3

The undertaker and Cadent agree that where there is any inconsistency or
duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus, including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by Cadent and other enactments
relied upon by Cadent as of right or other use in relation to the apparatus,
then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

100.4

Any agreement or consent granted by Cadent under paragraph 103 (retained
apparatus: protection of Cadent) or any other paragraph of this Part of this
Schedule, is not to be taken to constitute agreement under sub-paragraph (1).

100.5

As a condition of an agreement under sub-paragraph (1) that involves de-
commissioned apparatus being left in situ the undertaker must accept a
surrender of any existing easement or other interest of Cadent in such
decommissioned apparatus from the date of such surrender.

100.6

Where an undertaker acquires land which is subject to any Cadent right or
interest (including, without limitation, easements and agreements relating to
rights or other interests) and the provisions of paragraph 101 (removal of
apparatus) do not apply, the undertaker must, unless Cadent agrees otherwise—

100.6.a

retain any notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest on the title
to the relevant land when registering the undertaker’s title to such acquired
land; and

100.6.b

(where no such notice of Cadent’s easement, right or other interest exists in
relation to such acquired land or any such notice is registered only on the
Land Charges Register) include (with its application to register title to the
undertaker’s interest in such acquired land at the Land Registry) a notice of
Cadent’s easement, right or other interest in relation to such acquired land.

###### Removal of apparatus

101

101.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, including pursuant
to any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 100 (acquisition of
land), the undertaker acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus
is placed, that apparatus must not be decommissioned or removed under this
Part of this Schedule and any right of Cadent to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, is in operation, and the facilities and rights referred to in
sub-paragraph (2) have been provided, to the reasonable satisfaction of Cadent
and in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (5) inclusive.

101.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
Cadent advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan and
section of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order Cadent reasonably
needs to move or remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must afford to
Cadent to its satisfaction (taking into account paragraph 102(1) (facilities
and rights for alternative apparatus)) the necessary facilities and rights—

101.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus; and

101.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

101.3

If the undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are
mentioned in sub-paragraph (2), in the land in which the alternative apparatus
or part of such apparatus is to be constructed, Cadent must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker in obtaining the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
Cadent to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it (in its
absolute discretion) elects to do so.

101.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between Cadent and the
undertaker.

101.5

Cadent must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed has
been agreed, and subject to the prior grant to Cadent of such facilities and
rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph (2) or (3), then proceed without
unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the alternative
apparatus and subsequently to decommission or remove any apparatus required by
the undertaker to be decommissioned or removed under the provisions of this
Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

102

102.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for Cadent facilities and rights in land for
the access to, construction and maintenance of alternative apparatus in
substitution for apparatus to be decommissioned or removed, those facilities
and rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Cadent and must be no less favourable on the whole
to Cadent than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the
apparatus to be decommissioned or removed unless otherwise accepted by Cadent.

102.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker and agreed with
Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) in respect of any alternative apparatus, and
the terms and conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to
be granted, are less favourable on the whole to Cadent than the facilities and
rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be decommissioned or
removed, then the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights
are subject in the matter may be referred to arbitration in accordance with
paragraph 109 (arbitration) of this Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Cadent as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the
circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of Cadent

103

103.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to Cadent a plan and, if reasonably required by Cadent,
a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

103.2

The plan to be submitted to Cadent under sub-paragraph (1) must include a
method statement and describe—

103.2.a

the exact position of the works;

103.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

103.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc.;

103.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

103.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

103.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

103.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until Cadent has given
written approval of the plan so submitted (and the ground monitoring scheme if
required).

103.4

Any approval of Cadent given under sub-paragraph (3)—

103.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraph (5); and

103.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and Cadent must meaningfully
engage with the undertaker within 28 days of the date of submission of the
plan under sub-paragraph (1).

103.5

Cadent may require such modifications to be made to the plan as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage or for the purpose of providing or securing
proper and convenient means of access to any apparatus.

103.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

103.6.a

the plan submitted under sub-paragraph (1) (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), as approved or as amended from time to time by agreement between
the undertaker and Cadent; and

103.6.b

all conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a), and Cadent will be entitled
to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

103.7

Where Cadent requires any protective works to be carried out by itself or by
the undertaker (whether of a temporary or permanent nature) such protective
works, inclusive of any measures or schemes required and approved as part of
the plan approved pursuant to this paragraph, must be carried out to Cadent’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works (or any relevant
part thereof) for which protective works are required prior to commencement.

103.8

If Cadent, in consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably
requires the removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the
undertaker of that requirement, paragraphs 95 to 97 and 100 to 102 apply as if
the removal of the apparatus had been required by the undertaker under sub-
paragraph 101(2) (removal of apparatus).

103.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan (and ground monitoring scheme if
required), instead of the plan previously submitted, and having done so the
provisions of this paragraph will apply to and in respect of the new plan (and
ground monitoring scheme if required).

103.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised development (including such an event
attributable to its maintenance)—

103.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

103.10.b

Cadent retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective works
for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in line
with paragraph 104 (expenses).

103.11

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph (1) where it needs
to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to Cadent notice as
soon as it reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and must comply
with the conditions imposed under sub-paragraph (4)(a) insofar as it
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

103.12

In this paragraph, “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at the time
when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to prevent
the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which the
person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be existing
or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

104

104.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to Cadent on demand, all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated or
reasonably incurred by Cadent in, or in connection with, the inspection,
removal, relaying or replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or
the construction of any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in
consequence of the execution of any authorised development without limitation—

104.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by Cadent in
connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory powers
for such apparatus including without limitation all costs (including
professional fees) incurred by Cadent as a consequence of Cadent—

104.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph 101(3) (removal of apparatus) if it elects to do so; or

104.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers under this Order transferred to or
benefitting Cadent;

104.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus;

104.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

104.1.d

the approval of plans;

104.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

104.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule;

104.1.g

any watching brief pursuant to sub-paragraph 103(6) (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent).

104.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1) the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that value
being calculated after removal.

104.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

104.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

104.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration on accordance with paragraph 109 (arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will
be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances (or it would be unlawful due to a statutory or
regulatory change) to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the same
capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

104.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

104.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

104.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

104.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Cadent in
respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph (1) will, if the works include the
placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7
years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Cadent any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

105

105.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works authorised by this Part of this Schedule
(including without limitation relocation, diversion, decommissioning,
construction and maintenance of apparatus or alternative apparatus) or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised development (including works carried out under article 21
(protective work to buildings)) by or on behalf of the undertaker or in
consequence of any act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or
authorised by the undertaker) in the course of carrying out such works,
including without limitation works carried out by the undertaker under this
Part of this Schedule or any subsidence resulting from any of these works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of the authorised development) or property
of Cadent, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the
supply of any good, by Cadent, or Cadent becomes liable to pay any amount to
any third party, the undertaker will—

105.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from Cadent, the
cost reasonably incurred by Cadent in making good such damage or restoring the
supply; and

105.1.b

indemnify Cadent for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings, damages,
claims, penalty, compensation or costs property incurred by, paid by or
recovered from Cadent, by reason or in consequence of any such damage or
interruption or Cadent becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other
than arising from any default of Cadent.

105.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Cadent on behalf of the
undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Cadent or in accordance
with any requirement of Cadent or under its supervision including under any
watching brief will not (unless sub-paragraph (3) applies) excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of this sub-paragraph (1)
unless Cadent fails to carry out and execute the works properly with due care
and attention and in a skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that
does not accord with the approved plan.

105.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph (1) imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of—

105.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of Cadent, its officers, servants, contractors or agents;

105.3.b

any part of the authorised development carried out by Cadent in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 11 (consent to transfer benefit of the Order); and

105.3.c

any indirect or consequential loss of any third party (including but not
limited to loss of use, revenue, profit, contract, production, increased cost
of working or business interruption) arising from any such damage or
interruption, which is not reasonably foreseeable at the commencement of the
relevant works referred to in sub-paragraph (1).

105.4

Cadent must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third party
claim or demand and no settlement, admission or liability or compromise must,
unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation scheme,
be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

###### Enactments and agreements

106

Except where this Part of this Schedule provides otherwise or by agreement in
writing between Cadent and the undertaker, nothing in this Part of this
Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment or agreement regulating the
relations between the undertaker and Cadent in respect of any apparatus laid
or erected in land belonging to the undertaker on the date on which this Order
is made.

###### Co-operation

107

107.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or Cadent requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph 101(2) (removal of apparatus) or Cadent makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 103
(retained apparatus: protection of Cadent), the undertaker must use its best
endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the interests of
safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised development
and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient operation of
Cadent’s undertaking and Cadent must use its best endeavours to co-operate
with the undertaker for that purpose.

107.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever Cadent’s consent, agreement or approval is
required in relation to plans, documents or other information submitted by
Cadent or the taking of action by Cadent, it must not be unreasonably withheld
or delayed.

###### Access

108

If in consequence of any agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 100(1)
(acquisition of land) or the powers conferred by this Order the access to any
apparatus is materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such
alternative rights and means of access to such apparatus as well enable Cadent
to maintain or use the apparatus no less effectively than was possible before
such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

109

Save for differences or disputes arising under sub-paragraphs 101(2) and
101(4) (removal of apparatus) and 103(11) (retained apparatus: protection of
Cadent) any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and Cadent
under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and Cadent, be determined by arbitration in accordance
with article 50 (arbitration).

###### Notices

110

Notwithstanding article 53 (service of notices) any plans submitted to Cadent
by the undertaker pursuant to sub-paragraph 103(1) (retained apparatus:
protection of Cadent) must be sent by email to Cadent Gas Limited Plant
Protection at  plantprotection@cadentgas.com  as well as by post to Plant
Protection, Cadent Gas Limited, Brick Kiln Street, Hinckley, Leicestershire,
LE10 0NA, or such other address as Cadent may from time to time appoint
instead for that purpose and notify to the undertaker in writing.

  DOCUMENTS TO BE CERTIFIED

Articles 2 and 48

          (1)       Document         (2)         Reference number       the
book of reference TR010044/APP/4.3 revision 4 the classification of road plans
TR010044/APP/2.9 the Crown land plans TR010044/APP/2.11 revision 3 the de-
trunking plans TR010044/APP/2.5 the First Iteration EMP TR010044/APP/6.8
revision 4 the engineering section drawings TR010044/APP/2.10 the
environmental masterplan Figure 2.4 within TR010044/APP/6.2 revision 4 the
environmental statement TR010044/APP/6.1-6.3 the general arrangement plans
TR010044/APP/2.4 the land plans TR010044/APP/2.2 revision 2 the streets,
rights of way and access plans TR010044/APP/2.6 revision 5 the traffic
regulation measures plans TR010044/APP/2.7 the permanent speed limit plans
TR010044/APP/2.8 the works plans TR010044/APP/2.3 the outline construction
traffic management plan TR010044/APP/7.4 revision 5 the archaeological
mitigation strategy TR010044/EXAM/9.23 revision 3 the habitats plan Figure 1
of Appendix 8.3 within TR010044/APP/6.3 the biodiversity pre-commencement plan
TR010044/APP/6.13 revision 2 the pre-commencement plan TR010044/EXAM/9.48
revision 4 the tree constraints plan Appendix 7.5 Part 2 and Part 3 within
TR010044/APP/6.3 revision 2 scheme design approach and design principles
TR010044/EXAM/9.26 revision 3 flood risk assessment Appendix 13.4 – Flood Risk
Assessment, Appendix 13.4 – Flood Risk Assessment – Annex A – River Great Ouse
Hydraulic Modelling Report, Appendix 13.4 – Flood Risk Assessment – Annex B –
Ordinary Watercourse Modelling Report, Appendix 13.4 – Flood Risk Assessment –
Annex C – Ordinary Watercourse Hydrology Report, within TR010044/APP/6.3, and
Flood Risk Assessment Technical Note TR010044/EXAM/9.82 revision 2 Brook
Cottages heritage strategy TR010044/EXAM/9.104

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Highways to construct a new 10 mile (16km)
dual 2-lane carriageway from the Black Cat roundabout to Caxton Gibbet
roundabout, to be known as the A421 (defined in the Order as the “new dual
carriageway”) and in addition approximately 1.8 miles (3km) of tie-in works.

  The Order permits National Highways to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  A copy of the plans, engineering section drawings, book of reference and
environmental statement mentioned in this Order and certified in accordance
with article 48 (certification of documents, etc.) may be inspected free of
charge during working hours at National Highways, Woodlands, Manton Industrial
Estate, Manton Lane, Bedford MK41 7LW.

