Title: The A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Development Consent Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order authorises National Highways to improve the A47 between North Tuddenham to Easton in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/911

## The A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Development Consent Order 2022

    Infrastructure Planning

  Made   12th August 2022

  Coming into force   2nd September 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State under section 37
of the Planning Act 2008  (“ the 2008 Act ”) in accordance with the
Infrastructure Planning (Applications: Prescribed Forms and Procedure)
Regulations 2009  for an Order granting development consent.       The
application was examined by a single appointed person (appointed by the
Secretary of State) in accordance with Chapter 4 of Part 6 of the 2008 Act and
the Infrastructure Planning (Examination Procedure) Rules 2010 .       The
single appointed person, having considered the representations made and not
withdrawn and the application together with the accompanying documents, in
accordance with section 83 of the 2008 Act has submitted a report and
recommendation to the Secretary of State.       The Secretary of State, having
considered the report and recommendation, is satisfied that open space
comprised within the Order Land, when burdened with the new rights authorised
for compulsory acquisition under the terms of this Order, will be no less
advantageous than it was before such acquisition, to the persons in whom it is
vested, other persons, if any, entitled to rights of common or other rights,
and the public and that, accordingly, section 132(3) of the 2008 Act applies
or, where open space comprised within the Order Land is being acquired for a
temporary purpose that, accordingly, section 132(4B) of the 2008 Act applies.
The Secretary of State, having considered the representations made and not
withdrawn, and the report and recommendation of the single appointed person,
has decided to make an Order granting development consent for the development
described in the application with modifications which in the opinion of the
Secretary of State do not make any substantial changes to the proposals
comprised in the application.           The Secretary of State, in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 114 , 115 , 117 , 120 , 122  and 123  of, and
paragraphs 1 to 3, 10 to 15, 17, 19 to 23, 26, 33, 36 and 37 of Part 1
Schedule 5  to, the 2008 Act, makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Development
Consent Order 2022 and comes into force on 2nd September 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order except where provided otherwise—

      “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;           “ the
1965 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;           “ the 1980 Act ”
means the Highways Act 1980 ;           “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory
Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;           “ the 1984 Act ” means
the Road Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;           “ the 1990 Act ” means the
Town and Country Planning Act 1990 ;           “ the 1991 Act ” means the New
Roads and Street Works Act 1991 ;           “ the 2004 Act ” means the Traffic
Management Act 2004 ;           “ the 2008 Act ” means the Planning Act 2008 ;
“ address ” includes any number or address for the purposes of electronic
transmission;           “ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited
(company number 2366656), whose registered office is at Lancaster House,
Lancaster Way, Ermine Business Park, Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire, United
Kingdom, PE29 6XU (or a related subsidiary company);           “ apparatus ”
has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;           “ authorised
development ” means the development and associated development described in
Schedule 1 (authorised development) and any other development authorised by
this Order;           “ book of reference ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for
the purposes of this Order;           “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in
the 1980 Act;           “ BT ” means British Telecommunications Plc (company
number 1800000), whose registered office is at 81 Newgate Street, London, EC1A
7AJ;           “ building ” includes any structure or erection or any part of
a building, structure or erection;           “ carriageway ” has the same
meaning as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “ classification of
roads plans ” means the documents of that description certified by the
Secretary of State as the classification of roads plans for the purposes of
this Order;           “ commence ” means beginning to carry out any material
operation (as defined in section 56(4) of the 1990 Act)  forming part of the
authorised development other than operations consisting of archaeological
investigations and mitigation works, ecological surveys and pre-construction
ecological mitigation, investigations for the purpose of assessing and
monitoring ground conditions and levels, remedial work in respect of any
contamination or other adverse ground conditions, erection of any temporary
means of enclosure, receipt and erection of construction plant, equipment,
welfare facilities and temporary buildings and site clearance, and the
temporary display of site notices or advertisements, and “ commencement ” is
to be construed accordingly;           “ cycle track ” has the same meaning as
in section 329(1) (further provisions as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act
and for the purposes of this Order includes parts of a cycle track and a right
of way on foot;           “de-trunking plans” mean the documents of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the de-trunking plans for
the purposes of this Order;           “ electronic transmission ” means a
communication transmitted—         by means of an electronic communications
network; or           by other means but while in electronic form;         and
in this definition “ electronic communications network ” has the same meaning
as in section 32(1) (meaning of electronic communications networks and
services) of the Communications Act 2003 ;           “ EMP (First Iteration) ”
means the first iteration of the environmental management plan produced in
accordance with the DMRB during the preliminary design stage and certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental management plan for the purposes
of the Order;           “ engineering drawings and sections ” means the
documents of that description certified as the engineering drawings and
sections by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “
environmental statement ” means the document of that description certified by
the Secretary of State as the environmental statement for the purposes of this
Order;           “ flood risk assessment ” means the document of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the flood risk assessment
for the purposes of this Order;           “ footpath ” has the same meaning as
in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;;           “ footway ” has the same meaning
as in section 329(1) of the 1980 Act;           “ general arrangement plans ”
means the documents of that description certified by the Secretary of State as
the general arrangement plans for the purposes of this Order;           “
hedgerow plans ” means the documents of that description certified as the
hedgerow plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ highway ” has the same meaning as in section 328(1) of the 1980 Act;
“ highway authority ” means the undertaker;           “ horizontal directional
drilling ” refers to a boring technique involving drilling in an arc between
two points;           “ horizontal directional drilling compound ” means a
construction site associated with the onshore connection works where
horizontal directional drilling or other trenchless construction technique is
proposed including hard standing, lay down and storage areas for construction
materials and equipment, areas for spoil, areas for vehicular parking, bunded
storage areas, areas comprising water and bentonite tanks, pumps and pipes,
areas for welfare facilities including offices and canteen and washroom
facilities, wheel washing facilities, workshop facilities and temporary
fencing or other means of enclosure and areas for other facilities required
for construction purposes;           “ Hornsea Three ” means the wind farm to
be constructed pursuant to the Hornsea Three Order;           “ Hornsea Three
Order ” means the Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm Order 2020;           “
land plans ” means the documents of that description certified as the land
plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “
limits of deviation ” means the limits of deviation referred to in article 7
(limits of deviation);           “ local highway authority ” means Norfolk
County Council;           “ maintain ” in relation to the authorised
development includes to inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove, replace or
reconstruct, provided such works do not give rise to any materially new or
materially different environmental effects in comparison with those reported
in the environmental statement, and any derivative of “ maintain ” is to be
construed accordingly;           “ NGG ” means National Grid Gas Plc (company
number 2006000), whose registered office is at 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5EH;
“ Order land ” means the land shown on the land plans which is within the
limits of the land to be acquired permanently or used permanently or
temporarily and described in the Book of Reference;           “ Order limits ”
means the limits of land to be acquired permanently or used temporarily as
shown on the land plans and works plans within which the authorised
development may be carried out;           “ Ørsted ” means Ørsted Hornsea
Project Three (UK) Limited (company number 08584210), whose registered office
is at 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG;           “ outline traffic management
plan ” means the document of that description certified as the outline traffic
management plan by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;
“ owner ”, in relation to land, has the same meaning as in section 7
(interpretation) of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;           “ relevant
highway authority ” means the local highway authority for the land in
question;           “ relevant planning authority ” means in any given
provision of this Order, the planning authority for the area in which the land
to which the provision relates is situated;           “ rights of way and
access plans ” means the documents of that description certified as the rights
of way and access plans by the Secretary of State for the purposes of this
Order;           “ special category land plans ” means the documents of that
description certified by the Secretary of State as the special category land
plans for the purposes of this Order;           “ statutory undertaker ” means
any statutory undertaker for the purposes of section 127(8) (statutory
undertakers’ land) of the 2008 Act;           “ street ” means a street within
the meaning of section 48  (streets, street works and undertakers) of the 1991
Act, together with land on the verge of a street or between two carriageways,
and includes part of a street,           “ street authority ”, in relation to
a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991 Act;           “
traffic authority ” has the same meaning as in section 121A  (traffic
authorities) of the 1984 Act;           “ traffic regulation plans ” means the
documents of that description certified as the traffic regulation plans by the
Secretary of State for the purposes of this Order;           “ tribunal ”
means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal;           “ trunk road ” means
a highway which is a trunk road by virtue of—         section 10  (general
provision as to trunk roads) or section 19(1)  (certain special roads and
other highways to become trunk roads) of the 1980 Act;           an order made
or direction given under section 10 of that Act; or           an order
granting development consent; or           any other enactment;
“ UKPN ” means UK Power Networks (Operations) Limited (company number
03870728), whose registered office is at Newington House, 237 Southwark Bridge
Road, London, SE1 6NP;           “ undertaker ” means National Highways
Limited, (company number 09346363), whose registered office is at Bridge
House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey, GU1 4LZ;           “
watercourse ” includes all rivers, streams, ditches, drains, canals, cuts,
culverts, dykes, sluices, sewers and passages through which water flows except
a public sewer or drain; and           “ works plans ” means the documents of
that description certified as the works plans by the Secretary of State for
the purposes of this Order.

2.2

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
above its surface and references in this Order to the imposition of
restrictive covenants are references to the creation of rights over land which
interfere with the interests or rights of another and are for the benefit of
land which is acquired under this Order or is otherwise comprised in the Order
land.

2.3

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and distances between points on a work comprised in the authorised
development are taken to be measured along that work.

2.4

For the purposes of this Order, all areas described in square metres in the
book of reference are approximate.

2.5

References in this Order to points identified by letters or numbers are to be
construed as references to points so lettered or numbered on the relevant
plans.

2.6

References in this Order to numbered works are references to the works as
numbered in Schedule 1 (authorised development).

2.7

The expression “includes” may be construed without limitation.

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

3

3.1

The provisions of the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  insofar as they relate
to temporary possession of land under articles 33 (temporary use of land for
carrying out the authorised development) and 34 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development) of this Order do not apply in relation
to the construction of works carried out for the purpose of, or in connection
with, the construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

3.2

Section 32 (variation of awards) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 does not apply
in relation to the construction of any work or the carrying out of any
operation required for the purpose of, or in connection with, the construction
of the authorised development.

3.3

In the event that compliance with any provision of:

3.3.a

this Order means that Hornsea Three will be carried out in breach of the terms
of the Hornsea Three Order or that Ørsted cannot comply with the terms of the
Hornsea Three Order, or

3.3.b

the Hornsea Three Order means that the authorised development will be carried
out in breach of the terms of this Order or that the undertaker cannot comply
with the terms of the this Order;

section 161(1) of the 2008 Act shall not apply to that breach.

#### Maintenance of drainage works

4

4.1

Nothing in this Order, or the construction, maintenance or operation of the
authorised development under it, affects any responsibility for the
maintenance of any works connected with the drainage of land, whether that
responsibility is imposed or allocated by or under any enactment, or otherwise
agreed in writing between the undertaker and the person responsible.

4.2

In this article “ drainage ” has the same meaning as in section 72
(interpretation) of the Land Drainage Act 1991 .

### PRINCIPAL POWERS

#### Development consent etc. granted by the Order

5

5.1

Subject to the provisions of this Order including the requirements in Schedule
2 (requirements), the undertaker is granted development consent for the
authorised development to be carried out and operated within the Order limits.

5.2

Any enactment applying to land within or adjacent to the Order limits has
effect subject to the provisions of this Order.

#### Maintenance of authorised development

6

The undertaker may at any time maintain the authorised development, except to
the extent that this Order, or an agreement made under this Order, provides
otherwise.

#### Limits of deviation

7

7.1

In carrying out the authorised development the undertaker must construct any
such work within the lateral limits of deviation or extents of work shown on
the works plans for the relevant work.

7.2

In carrying out any work comprised in the authorised development the
undertaker may deviate vertically from the levels of the authorised
development shown on the engineering drawings and sections, to a maximum of 1
metre upwards or 1 metre downwards except that these maximum limits of
vertical deviation do not apply where it is demonstrated by the undertaker to
the Secretary of State’s satisfaction and the Secretary of State, following
consultation with the relevant planning authority, certifies accordingly that
a deviation in excess of these limits would not give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement.

#### Benefit of Order

8

8.1

Subject to article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order) and paragraph (2),
the provisions of this Order conferring powers on the undertaker have effect
solely for the benefit of the undertaker.

8.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the works for which the consent is granted
by this Order for the express benefit of owners and occupiers of land,
statutory undertakers and other persons affected by the authorised
development.

#### Consent to transfer benefit of Order

9

9.1

Subject to paragraph  (4)  the undertaker may—

9.1.a

transfer to another person (“ the transferee ”) any or all of the benefit of
the provisions of this Order and such related statutory rights as may be
agreed between the undertaker and the transferee;

9.1.b

grant to another person (“ the lessee ”) for a period agreed between the
undertaker and the lessee any or all of the benefit of the provisions of this
Order and such related statutory rights as may be so agreed.

9.2

Where an agreement has been made in accordance with paragraph  (1)  references
in this Order to the undertaker, except in paragraph  (4) , include references
to the transferee or the lessee.

9.3

The exercise by a person of any benefits or rights conferred in accordance
with any transfer or grant under paragraph  (1)  is subject to the same
restrictions, liabilities and obligations as would apply under this Order if
those benefits or rights were exercised by the undertaker.

9.4

The consent of the Secretary of State is not required under this article,
where the transfer or grant is made to—

9.4.a

NGG for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus set
out in Work Nos. 84;

9.4.b

Anglian Water for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its
apparatus set out in Work Nos. 74, 77, 80, 84, 89 and 92;

9.4.c

UKPN for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus set
out in Work Nos. 74, 76, 78, 79, 84, 86, 88, 89, 90, 92, 93 and 95;

9.4.d

BT for the purposes of undertaking any works relating to its apparatus set out
in Work Nos. 73, 74, 75, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, 90, 91 and 92; or

9.4.e

Ørsted for the purposes of undertaking Work Nos. 94 and 99.

### STREETS

#### Application of the 1991 Act

10

10.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major highway works if—

10.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

10.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the local highway authority,
might have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64
(dual carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act or section 184 (vehicle
crossings over footways and verges) of that Act.

10.2

In Part 3 of the 1991 Act references to the highway authority concerned are,
in relation to works which are major highway works by virtue of paragraph  (1)
, to be construed as references to the undertaker.

10.3

The following provisions of the 1991 Act do not apply in relation to any works
executed under the powers conferred by this Order—

10.3.a

section 56  (power to give directions as to timing of street works);

10.3.b

section 56A  (power to give directions as to placing of apparatus);

10.3.c

section 58  (restrictions on works following substantial road works);

10.3.d

section 58A  (restriction on works following substantial street works);

10.3.e

section 73A (power to require undertaker to re-surface street);

10.3.f

section 73B (power to specify timing etc. of re-surfacing);

10.3.g

section 73C (materials, workmanship and standard of re-surfacing);

10.3.h

section 78A (contributions to costs of re-surfacing by undertaker); and

10.3.i

Schedule 3A  (restriction on works following substantial street works).

10.4

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (5) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the execution of
street works) and any regulations made, or code of practice issued or
approved, under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in
relation to any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a
temporary nature by the undertaker under the powers conferred by article 15
(temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets) whether or not the
stopping up, alteration or diversion constitutes street works within the
meaning of that Act.

10.5

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (4) are—

10.5.a

section 54  (advance notice of certain works), subject to paragraph (6);

10.5.b

section 55  (notice of starting date of works), subject to paragraph (6);

10.5.c

section 57  (notice of emergency works);

10.5.d

section 59  (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works);

10.5.e

section 60  (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);

10.5.f

section 68  (facilities to be afforded to street authority);

10.5.g

section 69  (works likely to affect other apparatus in the street);

10.5.h

section 75 (inspection fees);

10.5.i

section 76 (liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation); and

10.5.j

section 77 (liability for cost of use of alternative route)

and all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

10.6

Sections 54 and 55 of the 1991 Act as applied by paragraph (4) have effect as
if references in section 57 of that Act to emergency works were a reference to
a stopping up, alteration or diversion (as the case may be) required in a case
of emergency.

10.7

Nothing in article 11 (construction and maintenance of new, altered or
diverted streets and other structures)—

10.7.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act;

10.7.b

means that the undertaker is by reason of any duty under that article to
maintain a street to be taken to be the street authority in relation to that
street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

10.7.c

has effect in relation to maintenance works which are street works within the
meaning of the 1991 Act, as respects which the provisions of Part 3 of the
1991 Act apply.

#### Construction and maintenance of new, altered or diverted streets and other structures

11

11.1

Any highway (other than a trunk road) to be constructed under this Order must
be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority in
whose area the highway lies and, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
local highway authority, the highway including any culverts or other
structures laid under it, must be maintained by and at the expense of the
local highway authority from its completion with the exception of the culvert
to be delivered as Work No. 5 which must be maintained by the undertaker from
its completion.

11.2

Where a highway (other than a trunk road) is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

11.3

Where a footpath, cycle track or bridleway is altered or diverted under this
Order, the altered or diverted part of the highway must be completed to the
reasonable satisfaction of the local highway authority and, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, that part of the highway
including any culverts or other structures laid under it must be maintained by
and at the expense of the local highway authority from its completion.

11.4

Where a street which is not, and is not intended to be, a public highway is
constructed, altered or diverted under this Order, the street (or part of the
street as the case may be) must, when completed to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed in writing with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of the undertaker for a period
of 12 months from its completion and at the expiry of that period by and at
the expense of the street authority.

11.5

Where a highway is de-trunked under this Order—

11.5.a

section 265  (transfer of property and liabilities upon a highway becoming or
ceasing to be a trunk road) of the 1980 Act applies in respect of that
highway; and

11.5.b

any alterations to that highway undertaken under powers conferred by this
Order prior to and in connection with that de-trunking must, unless otherwise
agreed in writing with the local highway authority, be maintained by and at
the expense of the local highway authority from the date of de-trunking.

11.6

In the case of a bridge constructed under this Order to carry a highway (other
than a trunk road) over a trunk road, the highway surface (being those
elements over the waterproofing membrane) must be maintained by and at the
expense of the local highway authority unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and the local highway authority, and the remainder of
the bridge, including the waterproofing membrane, and structure below,
parapets and any system of lighting must be maintained by and at the expense
of the undertaker.

11.7

In any action against the undertaker in respect of loss or damage resulting
from any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a
defence (without prejudice to any other defence or the application of the law
relating to contributory negligence) to prove that the undertaker had taken
such care as in all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that
the part of the street to which the action relates was not dangerous to
traffic.

11.8

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (7), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

11.8.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

11.8.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

11.8.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

11.8.d

whether the undertaker knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

11.8.e

where the undertaker could not reasonably have been expected to repair that
part of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that the
undertaker had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that the undertaker had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and the competent
person had carried out those instructions.

#### Classification of roads, etc.

12

12.1

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 1 (trunk roads) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the classification of roads plans are completed
and open for traffic, they are to become trunk roads as if they had become so
by virtue of an order under section 10(2)  (general provision as to trunk
roads) of the 1980 Act specifying that date as the date on which they were to
become trunk roads.

12.2

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 2 (classified B
roads) and Part 2A (classified C roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the
classification of roads plans are completed and open for traffic, they are to
become classified roads for the purpose of any enactment or instrument which
refers to highways classified as classified roads as if such classification
had been made under section 12(3) (general provision as to principal and
classified roads) of the 1980 Act.

12.3

On and after the date on which the roads described in Part 3 (unclassified
roads) of Schedule 3 and identified on the classification of roads plans are
completed and open for traffic, they are to become unclassified roads for the
purpose of any enactment or instrument which refers to unclassified roads.

12.4

On and after the date on which the roads specified in Part 4 (speed limits) of
Schedule 3 and identified on the traffic regulation plans are open for
traffic, no person is to drive any motor vehicle at a speed exceeding the
limit in miles per hour specified in column (3) of that Part along the lengths
of road identified in the corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

12.5

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the order specified in column (3)
of Part 5 (revocations and variations of existing traffic regulation orders)
of Schedule 3 is to be varied or revoked as specified in the corresponding row
of column (4) of that Part in respect of the lengths of roads specified in the
corresponding row of column (2) of that Part.

12.6

Subject to paragraph  (7)  unless otherwise agreed in writing with the
relevant highway authority, the footpaths, cycle tracks, footways and
bridleways set out in column (2) of Part 6 (footpaths, cycle tracks, footways
and bridleways) of Schedule 3 and identified on the rights of way and access
plans are to be constructed by the undertaker in the specified locations and
open for use from the date on which the authorised development is open for
traffic.

12.7

The cycle track with reference CF1 to CF2a in column (2) of Part 6 of Schedule
3 and identified on the rights of way and access plans may only be constructed
by the undertaker in the specified location if approved by the relevant
highway authority and opened for use on such day as approved by the relevant
highway authority.

12.8

On such day as the undertaker may determine, the roads described in Part 7
(roads to be de-trunked) of Schedule 3 and identified on the de-trunking plans
are to cease to be trunk roads as if they had ceased to be trunk roads by
virtue of an order made under section 10(2 (general provision as to trunk
roads) of the 1980 Act specifying that date as the date on which they were to
cease to be trunk roads.

12.9

The application of paragraphs  (1)  to  (8)  may be varied or revoked by any
instrument made under any enactment which provides for the variation or
revocation of such matters.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

13

13.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may, for the purposes of constructing
and maintaining the authorised development, alter the layout of any street
within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a junction with
such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of this paragraph, the
undertaker may—

13.1.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street;

13.1.b

alter the level or increase the width of any such kerb, footway, cycle track
or verge;

13.1.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

13.1.d

make and maintain passing places.

13.2

The undertaker must restore any street that has been temporarily altered under
this article to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority.

13.3

The powers conferred by paragraph  (1) —

13.3.a

are exercisable on the giving of not less than 42 days’ notice to the street
authority; and

13.3.b

are not to be exercised without the consent of the street authority where that
authority is a public authority.

13.4

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (3) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 6 weeks beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

13.5

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (4) apply to that application.

13.6

Paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) do not apply where the undertaker is the street
authority for a street in which the works are being carried out.

#### Street works

14

14.1

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, enter on
so much of any of the streets as are within the Order limits and may—

14.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

14.1.b

tunnel or bore under the street; or carry out works to strengthen or repair
the carriageway;

14.1.c

place and keep apparatus in or under the street;

14.1.d

maintain, renew or alter apparatus in the street or change its position;

14.1.e

demolish, remove, replace and relocate any street furniture;

14.1.f

execute any works to provide or improve sight lines;

14.1.g

execute and maintain any works to provide hard and soft landscaping;

14.1.h

carry out re-lining and placement of road markings;

14.1.i

remove and install temporary and permanent signage; and

14.1.j

execute any works required for, or incidental to, any works referred to in
subparagraphs  (a)  to  (i) .

14.2

The authority given by paragraph  (1)  is a statutory right for the purposes
of sections 48(3) (streets, street works and undertakers) and 51(1)
(prohibition of unauthorised street works) of the 1991 Act.

14.3

The provisions of sections 54 to 106 of the 1991 Act apply to any street works
carried out under paragraph (1).

#### Temporary stopping up and restriction of use of streets

15

15.1

The undertaker, during and for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development, may temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use of any
street and may for any reasonable time—

15.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

15.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

15.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph  (1) , the undertaker may use any
street temporarily stopped up, altered, diverted or restricted under the
powers conferred by this article, and which is within the Order limits, as a
temporary working site.

15.3

The undertaker must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting a street affected by the temporary stopping up, alteration,
diversion or restriction of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

15.4

The undertaker must not temporarily stop up, alter, divert or restrict the use
of any street for which it is not the street authority without the consent of
the street authority, which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent
but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

15.5

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

15.6

If a street authority which receives an application for consent under
paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of its decision before the end of
the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the application was
made, it is deemed to have granted consent.

15.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

#### Permanent stopping up and restriction of use of streets and private means of access

16

16.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the undertaker may, in connection
with the carrying out of the authorised development, stop up each of the
streets and private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
1, 2, 3 and 4 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and private
means of access & provision of new highways and private means of access) and
identified on the rights of way and access plans to the extent specified and
described in column (3) of those parts of that Schedule.

16.2

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
2 or Part 3 of Schedule 4 is to be wholly or partly stopped up under this
article unless—

16.2.a

the new highway or private means of access to be constructed and substituted
for it, which is specified in column (4) of those Parts of that Schedule, has
been completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the street authority and is
open for use; or

16.2.b

a temporary alternative route for the passage of such traffic as could have
used the street or private means of access to be stopped up is first provided
and subsequently maintained by the undertaker, to the reasonable satisfaction
of the street authority, between the commencement and termination points for
the stopping up of the highway or private means of access until the completion
and opening of the new highway or private means of access in accordance with
sub-paragraph (a).

16.3

No street or private means of access specified in columns (1) and (2) of Part
4 of Schedule 4 (being a street or private means of access to be stopped up
for which no substitute is to be provided) is to be wholly or partly stopped
up under this article unless the condition specified in paragraph (4) is
satisfied in relation to all the land which abuts on either side of the street
or private means of access to be stopped up.

16.4

The condition referred to in paragraph (3) is that—

16.4.a

the undertaker is in possession of the land; or

16.4.b

there is no right of access to the land from the street or private means of
access concerned; or

16.4.c

there is reasonably convenient access to the land otherwise than from the
street or private means of access concerned; or

16.4.d

the owners and occupiers of the land have agreed to the stopping up.

16.5

Where a street or private means of access has been stopped up under this
article—

16.5.a

all rights of way over or along the street or private means of access so
stopped up are extinguished; and

16.5.b

the undertaker may appropriate and use for the purposes of the authorised
development so much of the site of the street or private means of access as is
bounded on both sides by land owned by the undertaker.

16.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

16.7

This article is subject to article 36 (apparatus and rights of statutory
undertakers in stopped up streets).

#### Access to works

17

The undertaker may, for the purposes of the authorised development, form and
lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, at such
locations within the Order limits as the undertaker reasonably requires for
the purposes of the authorised development.

#### Clearways

18

18.1

Except as provided in paragraph (2), on and after such day as the undertaker
may determine, except as provided in paragraph (2), no person is to cause or
permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the lengths of road described in
column (2) of Part 8 (traffic regulation measures (clearways and
prohibitions)) of Schedule 3 (classification of roads, etc.) and identified on
the traffic regulation plans where it is identified in the corresponding row
of column (3) of that Part that such lengths of road are to become a clearway,
except upon the direction of, or with the permission or, constable or traffic
officer in uniform.

18.2

Nothing in paragraph  (1)  applies—

18.2.a

to render it unlawful to cause or permit a vehicle to wait on any part of a
road, for so long as may be necessary to enable that vehicle to be used in
connection with—

18.2.a.i

the removal of any obstruction to traffic;

18.2.a.ii

the maintenance, improvement, reconstruction or operation of the road;

18.2.a.iii

the laying, erection, inspection, maintenance, alteration, repair, renewal or
removal in or near the road of any sewer, main pipe, conduit, wire, cable, or
other apparatus for the supply of gas, water, electricity or any electronic
communications apparatus as defined in Schedule 3A (the electronic
communications code) to the Communications Act 2003 ; or

18.2.a.iv

any building operation or demolition;

18.2.b

in relation to a vehicle being used—

18.2.b.i

for police, ambulance, fire and rescue authority or traffic officer purposes;

18.2.b.ii

in the service of a local authority, safety camera partnership or Driver and
Vehicle Standards Agency in pursuance of statutory powers or duties;

18.2.b.iii

in the service of a water or sewerage undertaker within the meaning of the
Water Industry Act 1991 ; or

18.2.b.iv

by a universal service provider for the purposes of providing a universal
postal service as defined by the Postal Service Act 2000 ; or

18.2.c

in relation to a vehicle waiting when the person in control of it is—

18.2.c.i

required by law to stop;

18.2.c.ii

obliged to stop in order to avoid an accident; or

18.2.c.iii

prevented from proceeding by circumstances outside the person’s control.

18.3

No person is to cause or permit any vehicle to wait on any part of the roads
described in paragraph  (1)  for the purposes of selling, or dispensing of,
goods from that vehicle, unless the goods are immediately delivered at, or
taken into, premises adjacent to the land on which the vehicle stood when the
goods were sold or dispensed.

18.4

Paragraphs  (1) , (2) and (3) have effect as if made by order under the 1984
Act, and their application may be varied or revoked by an order made under
that Act or any other enactment which provides for the variation or revocation
of such orders.

18.5

In this article, “ traffic officer ” means an individual designated under
section 2 (designation of traffic officers) of the 2004 Act .

#### Traffic regulation

19

19.1

This article applies to roads in respect of which the undertaker is not the
traffic authority.

19.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, which consent must not
be unreasonably withheld, the undertaker may, for the purposes of the
authorised development—

19.2.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

19.2.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

19.2.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

19.2.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road; and

19.2.e

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by the undertaker.

19.3

The power conferred by paragraph  (2)  may be exercised at any time prior to
the expiry of 12 months from the opening of the authorised development for
public use but subject to paragraph  (7)  any prohibition, restriction or
other provision made under paragraph  (2)  may have effect both before and
after the expiry of that period.

19.4

The undertaker must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph  (5) .

19.5

The undertaker must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)
unless the undertaker has—

19.5.a

given not less than—

19.5.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
permanently; or

19.5.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of the undertaker’s intention so to do in the case
of a prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have effect
temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

19.5.b

advertised the undertaker’s intention in such manner as the traffic authority
may specify in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of the
undertaker’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph  (a) (i) , or within 7
days of its receipt of notice of the undertaker’s intention in the case of
sub-paragraph  (a) (ii) .

19.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by the undertaker under
paragraph  (2) —

19.6.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

19.6.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act; or

19.6.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32 (power of local authorities to provide parking spaces) of the 1984
Act ,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

19.6.b

is deemed to be a traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic
contraventions subject to civil enforcement) to the 2004 Act .

19.7

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by the undertaker from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  within a period of 24
months from the opening of the authorised development.

19.8

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph  (2)  the undertaker must
consult such persons as the undertaker considers necessary and appropriate and
must take into consideration any representations made to the undertaker by any
such person.

19.9

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

19.10

The powers conferred on the undertaker by this article with respect to any
road have effect subject to any agreement entered into by the undertaker with
any person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

19.11

If the traffic authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within
28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph  (2)  the
traffic authority is deemed to have granted consent.

19.12

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph  (11)  apply to that application.

### SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS

#### Discharge of water

20

20.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), the undertaker may use any watercourse or
any public sewer or drain for the drainage of water in connection with the
carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised development and for that
purpose may lay down, take up and alter pipes and may, on any land within the
Order limits, make openings into, and connections with, the watercourse,
public sewer or drain.

20.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or use of a public sewer
or drain by the undertaker under paragraph  (1)  is to be determined as if it
were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers) of
the Water Industry Act 1991 .

20.3

The undertaker must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

20.4

The undertaker must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain
except—

20.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

20.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

20.5

The undertaker must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure
that any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under
this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel, soil or other solid
substance, oil or matter in suspension.

20.6

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12 (requirement for environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016 .

20.7

If a person who receives an application for consent under paragraph (3) or
approval under paragraph (4) fails to notify the undertaker of a decision
within 28 days of receiving an application, that person is deemed to have
granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

20.8

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (7) apply to that application.

20.9

In this article—

20.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to Homes
England, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, a joint planning
board, a local authority a sewerage undertaker or an urban development
corporation; and

20.9.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

#### Protective work to buildings

21

21.1

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker may at its
own expense carry out such protective works to any building which may be
affected by the authorised development as the undertaker considers necessary
or expedient.

21.2

Protective works may be carried out—

21.2.a

at any time before or during the carrying out in the vicinity of the building
of any part of the authorised development; or

21.2.b

after the completion of that part of the authorised development in the
vicinity of the building at any time up to the end of the period of 5 years
beginning with the day on which that part of the authorised development is
first opened for use.

21.3

For the purpose of determining how the functions under this article are to be
exercised the undertaker may (subject to paragraph (5)) enter and survey any
building falling within paragraph (1) and any land within its curtilage.

21.4

For the purpose of carrying out protective works to a building under this
article the undertaker may (subject to paragraphs (5) and (6))—

21.4.a

enter the building and any land within its curtilage; and

21.4.b

where the works cannot be carried out reasonably conveniently without entering
land which is adjacent to the building but outside its curtilage, enter the
adjacent land (but not any building erected on it.

21.5

Before exercising—

21.5.a

a right under paragraph  (1)  to carry out protective works to a building;

21.5.b

a right under paragraph (3) to enter a building and land within its curtilage;

21.5.c

a right under paragraph  (4) (a) to enter a building and land within its
curtilage; or

21.5.d

a right under paragraph (4)(b) to enter land,

the undertaker must, except in the case of emergency, serve on the owners and
occupiers of the building or land not less than 14 days’ notice of its
intention to exercise that right and, in a case falling within sub-paragraph
(a) or (c), specifying the protective works proposed to be carried out.

21.6

Where a notice is served under paragraph (5)(a), (c) or (d), the owner or
occupier of the building or land concerned may, by serving a counter-notice
within the period of 10 days beginning with the day on which the notice was
served, require the question whether it is necessary or expedient to carry out
the protective works or to enter the building or land to be referred to
arbitration under article  52  (arbitration).

21.7

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of any building or
land in relation to which rights under this article have been exercised for
any loss or damage arising to them by reason of the exercise of those rights.

21.8

Where—

21.8.a

protective works are carried out under this article to a building; and

21.8.b

within the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the part of the
authorised development carried out in the vicinity of the building is first
opened for use it appears that the protective works are inadequate to protect
the building against damage caused by the carrying out or use of that part of
the authorised development,

the undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the building for
any loss or damage sustained by them.

21.9

Nothing in this article relieves the undertaker from any liability to pay
compensation under section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim
in nuisance) of the 2008 Act.

21.10

Any compensation payable under paragraph (7) or (8) is to be determined, in
case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

21.11

In this article “ protective works ” in relation to a building means —

21.11.a

underpinning, strengthening and any other works the purpose of which is to
prevent damage which may be caused to the building by the carrying out,
maintenance or use of the authorised development; and

21.11.b

any works the purpose of which is to remedy any damage which has been caused
to the building by the carrying out, maintenance or use of the authorised
development.

#### Authority to survey and investigate the land

22

22.1

The undertaker may for the purposes of this Order enter on any land shown
within the Order limits or which may be affected by the authorised development
and—

22.1.a

survey or investigate the land;

22.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such
positions on the land as the undertaker sees fit to investigate the nature of
the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

22.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land; and

22.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making trial holes.

22.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph  (1)  unless at least 14 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land indicating the nature of the survey or
investigation that the undertaker intends to carry out.

22.3

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of the undertaker—

22.3.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land, produce written
evidence of their authority to do so; and

22.3.b

may take into the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes.

22.4

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

22.4.a

in land located within the highway boundary without the consent of the highway
authority or the local highway authority as the case may be; or

22.4.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority.

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

22.5

The undertaker must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any
loss or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by
this article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it
were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.6

If either the highway authority, the local highway authority or a street
authority which receives an application for consent fails to notify the
undertaker of its decision within 28 days of receiving the application for
consent—

22.6.a

under paragraph (4)(a) in the case of the highway authority or the local
highway authority; or

22.6.b

under paragraph (4)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

22.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

### POWERS OF ACQUISITION

#### Compulsory acquisition of land

23

23.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of the Order land as is
required for the authorised development, or to facilitate it, or is incidental
to it.

23.2

This article is subject to paragraph  (2)  of article 26 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants), paragraph (8)
of article 33 (temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised
development) and article 53 (crown rights).

#### Compulsory acquisition of land – incorporation of the mineral code

24

Parts 2 and 3 of Schedule 2 (minerals) to the Acquisition of Land Act 1981
are incorporated into this Order subject to the modifications that—

24.a

paragraph 8(3) is not incorporated;

24.b

for “the acquiring authority” substitute  “the undertaker” ; and

24.c

for “undertaking” substitute  “authorised development” .

#### Time limit for exercise of authority to acquire land compulsorily

25

25.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order is made—

25.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 29 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act); and

25.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4 (execution of declaration) of
the 1981 Act as applied by article 30 (application of the 1981 Act).

25.2

The authority conferred by article 33 (temporary use of land for carrying out
the authorised development) ceases at the end of the period referred to in
paragraph  (1) , except that nothing in this paragraph prevents the undertaker
from remaining in possession of land after the end of that period, if the land
was entered and possession was taken before the end of that period.

#### Compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants

26

26.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) to (4), the undertaker may acquire such rights over
the Order land or impose restrictive covenants affecting the Order land as may
be required for any purpose for which that land may be acquired under article
23  (compulsory acquisition of land), by creating them as well as acquiring
rights already in existence.

26.2

In the case of the Order land specified in column (1) of Schedule 5 (land in
which only new rights etc. may be acquired) the undertaker’s powers of
compulsory acquisition are limited to the acquisition of such wayleaves,
easements, new rights in the land or the imposition of restrictive covenants
as may be required for the purposes specified in relation to that land in
column (2) of that Schedule and relating to that part of the authorised
development specified in column (3) of that Schedule.

26.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 10 of Schedule 6
(modification of compensation and compulsory purchase enactments for creation
of new rights)), where the undertaker acquires a right over land or the
benefit of a restrictive covenant affecting land under paragraph (1) or (2),
the undertaker is not required to acquire a greater interest in that land.

26.4

Schedule 6 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation and the provisions of the 1965 Act in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right or the imposition of a restrictive covenant.

#### Public rights of way

27

27.1

Subject to paragraph  (2) , the public rights of way identified in columns (1)
to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 (permanent stopping up of highways and
private means of access & provision of new highways and private means of
access) and shown on the rights of way and access plans are to be extinguished
on the date of the expiry of the notice given under paragraph  (2) .

27.2

Prior to the extinguishment of each of the public rights of way identified in
columns (1) to (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 4 and shown on the rights of
way and access plans, the undertaker must erect a site notice at each end of
the rights of way to be extinguished no less than 28 days prior to the
extinguishment of that right of way.

#### Private rights over land

28

28.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to compulsory acquisition under this Order are extinguished—

28.1.a

on the date of acquisition of the land by the undertaker whether compulsorily
or by agreement; or

28.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1)
(powers of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

28.2

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights or the imposition of
restrictive covenants under this Order are extinguished in so far as their
continuance would be inconsistent with the exercise of the right or burden of
the restrictive covenant—

28.2.a

on the date of the acquisition of the right or the benefit of the restrictive
covenant by the undertaker, whether compulsorily or by agreement; or

28.2.b

on the date of entry on the land by the undertaker under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the earlier.

28.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land owned
by the undertaker which, being within the limits of land which may be acquired
or used shown on the land plans, are required for the purposes of this Order
are extinguished on commencement of any activity authorised by this Order
which interferes with or breaches those rights.

28.4

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights over land of
which the undertaker takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended
and unenforceable for as long as the undertaker remains in lawful possession
of the land.

28.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right under this article is entitled to compensation in accordance with the
terms of section 152  (compensation in case where no right to claim in
nuisance) of the 2008 Act to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

28.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right to which section 138
(extinguishment of rights, and removal of apparatus, of statutory undertakers
etc.) of the 2008 Act or article 35 (statutory undertakers) applies.

28.7

Paragraphs  (1)  to (4) have effect subject to—

28.7.a

any notice given by the undertaker before—

28.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of the land or the acquisition of the rights
or the imposition of the restrictive covenants over or affecting the land;

28.7.a.ii

the undertaker’s appropriation of it;

28.7.a.iii

the undertaker’s entry onto it; or

28.7.a.iv

the undertaker’s taking temporary possession of it,

that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right specified in the
notice; and

28.7.b

any agreement made at any time between the undertaker and the person in or to
whom the right in question is vested or belongs.

28.8

If any such agreement is referred to in paragraph (7)(b)—

28.8.a

is made with a person in or to whom the right is vested or belongs; and

28.8.b

is expressed to have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from
or under that person,

it is effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title
was derived before or after the making of the agreement.

28.9

References in this article to private rights over land include any trust,
incident, easement, liberty, privilege, right or advantage annexed to land and
adversely affecting other land, including any natural right to support and
include restrictions as to the user of land arising by virtue of a contract,
agreement or undertaking having that effect.

#### Modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

29

29.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied to this Order by section 125  (application
of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act, is modified as follows—

29.2

In section 4A(1) (extension of time limit during challenge)

29.2.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order), substitute  “section 118 of the
Planning Act 2008 (legal challenges relating to applications for orders
granting development consent), and;

29.2.b

for the “three year period” mentioned in section 4 substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsory) of the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Development
Consent Order 2022” .

29.3

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notice of entry)—

29.3.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ;

29.3.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision” .

29.4

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 25 (time limit for exercise of
authority to acquire land compulsory) of the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton
Development Consent Order 2022” .

29.5

In Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

29.5.a

for paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2) substitute—

29.5.a.2

But see article 31 (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47 North
Tuddenham to Easton Development Consent Order 2022, which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule

 and

29.5.b

after paragraph 29, end insert—

############ INTERPRETATION

29.5.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under article 21 (protective works to buildings), 33
(temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development) or 34
(temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development) of the A47
North Tuddenham to Easton Development Consent Order 2022.

#### Application of the 1981 Act

30

30.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

30.2

The 1981 Act, as applied by paragraph  (1) , has effect with the following
modifications.

30.3

In section 1 (application of Act), for subsection (2) substitute—

30.3.2

This section applies to any Minister, any local or other public authority or
any other body or person authorised to acquire land by means of a compulsory
purchase order.

30.4

In section 5(2)  (earliest date for execution of declaration), omit the words
from “, and this subsection” to the end.

30.5

Omit section 5A (time limit for general vesting declaration).

30.6

In section 5B  (extension of time limit during challenge)

30.6.a

for “section 23 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court
in respect of compulsory purchase order),” substitute  “section 118( (legal
challenges relating to applications for orders granting development consent)
of the Planning Act 2008” ; and,

30.6.b

for “the three year period mentioned in Section 5A” substitute  “the five year
period mentioned in article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority to
acquire land compulsorily) of the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Development
Consent Order 2022” .

30.7

In section (6) (notices after execution of declaration), replace subsection
(1)(b) with—

30.7.b

on every person who has given information to the acquiring authority with
respect to any of that land further to the invitation published and served in
section 134 (notice of authorisation of compulsory acquisition) of the
Planning Act 2008

.

30.8

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

30.9

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration) omit paragraph 1(2).

30.10

References to the 1965 Act in the 1981 Act are to be construed as references
to the 1965 Act as applied by section 125  (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and as modified by article 29
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the compulsory acquisition of
land under this Order.

#### Acquisition of subsoil or airspace only

31

31.1

The undertaker may acquire compulsorily so much of, or such rights in, the
subsoil of or the airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1)  of
article  23  (compulsory acquisition of land) as may be required for any
purpose for which that land may be acquired under that provision instead of
acquiring the whole of the land.

31.2

Where the undertaker acquires any part of, or rights in, the subsoil of or the
airspace over the land referred to in paragraph  (1) , the undertaker is not
required to acquire an interest in any other part of the land.

31.3

The following do not apply in connection with the exercise of the power under
paragraph  (1)  in relation to subsoil or airspace only—

31.3.a

Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to treat)
to the 1965 Act (as modified by article 29 (modification of Part 1 of the 1965
Act));

31.3.b

Schedule A1 (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general vesting
declaration) to the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981; and

31.3.c

section 153 (4A) (blighted land: proposed acquisition of part interest;
material detriment test) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.

31.4

Paragraphs (2) and (3) are to be disregarded where the undertaker acquires a
cellar, vault, arch or other construction forming part of a house, building or
manufactory or airspace above a house, building or manufactory.

#### Rights under or over streets

32

32.1

The undertaker may enter on and appropriate so much of the subsoil of, or
airspace over, any street within the Order limits as may be required for the
purposes of the authorised development and may use the subsoil or airspace for
those purposes or any other purpose ancillary to the authorised development.

32.2

Subject to paragraph (3), the undertaker may exercise any power conferred by
paragraph  (1)  in relation to a street without being required to acquire any
part of the street or any easement or right in the street.

32.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to—

32.3.a

any subway or underground building; or

32.3.b

any cellar, vault, arch or other construction in, on or under a street which
forms part of a building fronting onto the street.

32.4

Subject to paragraph (5), any person who is an owner or occupier of land in
respect of which the power of appropriation conferred by paragraph  (1)  is
exercised without the undertaker acquiring any part of that person’s interest
in the land, and who suffers loss as a result, is entitled to compensation to
be determined, in case of dispute, under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

32.5

Compensation is not payable under paragraph (4) to any person who is a
statutory undertaker to whom section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary
measures) of the 1991 Act applies in respect of measures of which the
allowable costs are to be borne in accordance with that section.

#### Temporary use of land for carrying out the authorised development

33

33.1

The undertaker may, in connection with the carrying out of the authorised
development, but subject to article 25 (time limit for exercise of authority
to acquire land compulsorily)—

33.1.a

enter on and take possession of—

33.1.a.i

the land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 7 (land of which
temporary possession may be taken) for the purpose specified in relation to
that land in column (3) of that Schedule relating to the part of the
authorised development specified in column (4) of that Schedule; and

33.1.a.ii

any other Order land in respect of which no notice of entry has been served
under section 11(powers of entry) of the 1965 Act (other than in connection
with the acquisition of rights only) and no declaration has been made under
section 4 (execution of declaration) of the 1981 Act,

33.1.b

remove any buildings and vegetation from that land,

33.1.c

construct temporary works (including the provision of means of access) and
buildings on that land; and

33.1.d

construct any permanent works specified in relation to that land in column (3)
of Schedule 7 (land of which temporary possession may be taken), or construct
any permanent works in connection with Work No. 94 or any other mitigation
works in connection with the authorised development.

33.2

Not less than 14 days before entering on and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and explain the purpose for which
entry is taken in respect of land specified under paragraph (1)(a)(ii)

33.3

The undertaker must not, without the agreement of the owners of the land,
remain in possession of any land under this article—

33.3.a

in the case of land specified in paragraph (1)(a)(i) after the end of the
period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the part of the
authorised development specified in relation to that land in column (4) of
Schedule 7; or

33.3.b

in the case of any land referred to in paragraph (1)(a)(ii) after the end of
the period of one year beginning with the date of completion of the work for
which temporary possession of the land was taken unless the undertaker has, by
the end of that period, served a notice of entry under section 11 of the 1965
Act or made a declaration under section 4 of the 1981 Act in relation to that
land.

33.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
the undertaker is not required to—

33.4.a

replace a building removed under this article;

33.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
paragraph (1)(d);

33.4.c

remove any ground strengthening works which have been placed on the land to
facilitate construction of the authorised development;

33.4.d

remove any measures installed over or around statutory undertakers’ apparatus
to protect that apparatus from the authorised development; or

33.4.e

remove or reposition any apparatus installed for or belonging to statutory
undertakers  ; or    ...

33.4.f

remove or reposition any necessary mitigation works.

33.5

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the provisions of this
article.

33.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

33.7

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right to claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the carrying out of the authorised development, other than loss or damage
for which compensation is payable under paragraph (5).

33.8

The undertaker may not compulsorily acquire under this Order the land referred
to in paragraph  (1) (a)(i) except that the undertaker is not to be precluded
from acquiring any part of the subsoil or airspace over (or rights in the
subsoil or airspace over) that land under article 31 (acquisition of subsoil
or airspace only).

33.9

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

33.10

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of the 2008
Act.

33.11

Paragraph  (1) (a)(ii) does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary
possession of any land which the undertaker is not authorised to acquire under
article  23  (compulsory acquisition of land) or article 26 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants).

#### Temporary use of land for maintaining the authorised development

34

34.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any part of the authorised development, the undertaker may—

34.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised development;

34.1.b

enter on any land within the Order limits for the purpose of gaining such
access as is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the authorised
development; and

34.1.c

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access)
and buildings on the land as may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

34.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not authorise the undertaker to take temporary possession
of—

34.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

34.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

34.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article the undertaker must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land and must explain the purpose for which
entry is taken.

34.4

The undertaker is not required to serve notice under paragraph (3) where the
undertaker has identified a potential risk to the safety of-

34.4.a

the authorised development or any of its parts;

34.4.b

the public; or

34.4.c

the surrounding environment.

and in such circumstances, the undertaker may enter the land under paragraph
(1) subject to giving such period of notice as is reasonably practicable in
the circumstances.

34.5

The undertaker may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of the part
of the authorised development for which possession of the land was taken.

34.6

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, the undertaker must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

34.7

The undertaker must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

34.8

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (7),
or as to the amount of the compensation, as if it were a dispute is to be
determined under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

34.9

Nothing in this article affects any liability to pay compensation under
section 152 (compensation in case where no right claim in nuisance) of the
2008 Act or under any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising
from the execution of any works, other than loss or damage for which
compensation is payable under paragraph (7).

34.10

Where the undertaker takes possession of land under this article, the
undertaker is not required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

34.11

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under to this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of section 125 (application of compulsory acquisition provisions) of
the 2008 Act.

34.12

In this article “ the maintenance period ”, in relation to any part of the
authorised development, means the period of 5 years beginning with the date on
which that part of the authorised development is first opened for use.

#### Statutory undertakers

35

35.1

Subject to the provisions of article 26 (compulsory acquisition of rights and
imposition of restrictive covenants), Schedule 9 (protective provisions) and
paragraph (2), the undertaker may—

35.1.a

acquire compulsorily, or acquire new rights or impose restrictive covenants
over, any Order land belonging to statutory undertakers; and

35.1.b

extinguish the rights of, or remove or reposition the apparatus belonging to,
statutory undertakers over or within the Order land.

35.2

Paragraph  (1) (b) has no effect in relation to apparatus in respect of which
the following provisions apply—

35.2.a

Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and

35.2.b

article 36 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up
streets).

#### Apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets

36

36.1

Where a street is stopped up under article 16 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any statutory
utility whose apparatus is under, in, on, along or across the street has the
same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus, subject to the provisions
of this article, as if this Order had not been made.

36.2

Where a street is stopped up under article 16 any statutory utility whose
apparatus is under, in, on, over, along or across the street may, and if
reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker must—

36.2.a

remove the apparatus and place it or other apparatus provided in substitution
for it in such other position as the utility may reasonably determine and have
power to place it; or

36.2.b

provide other apparatus in substitution for the existing apparatus and place
it in such position as described in sub-paragraph (a).

36.3

Subject to the following provisions of this article, the undertaker must pay
to any statutory utility an amount equal to the cost reasonably incurred by
the utility in or in connection with—

36.3.a

the execution of the relocation works required in consequence of the stopping
up of the street; and

36.3.b

the doing of any other work or thing rendered necessary by the execution of
the relocation works.

36.4

If in the course of the execution of relocation works under paragraph (2)—

36.4.a

apparatus of a better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus; or

36.4.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker, or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration to be necessary, then, if it involves cost in the execution of the
relocation works exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which, apart from this
paragraph, would be payable to the statutory utility by virtue of paragraph
(3) is to be reduced by the amount of that excess.

36.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

36.5.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

36.5.b

where the provision of a joint in a cable is agreed, or is determined to be
necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a manhole
is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so determined.

36.6

An amount which, apart from this paragraph, would be payable to a statutory
utility in respect of works by virtue of paragraph (3) (and having regard,
where relevant, to paragraph (4)) must, if the works include the placing of
apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed more than 7 years and
6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility any financial benefit by
deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the ordinary course, be
reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

36.7

Paragraphs (3) to (6) do not apply where the authorised development
constitutes major highway works, major bridge works or major transport works
for the purposes of Part 3 of the 1991 Act, but instead—

36.7.a

the allowable costs of the relocation works are to be determined in accordance
with section 85 (sharing of cost of necessary measures) of that Act and any
regulations for the time being having effect under that section; and

36.7.b

the allowable costs are to be borne by the undertaker and the statutory
utility in such proportions as may be prescribed by any such regulations.

36.8

In this article—

      “ relocation works ” means work executed, or apparatus provided, under
paragraph (2); and           “ statutory utility ” means a statutory
undertaker for the purposes of the 1980 Act or a public communications
provider as defined in section 151(1) of the Communications Act 2003 .

#### Recovery of costs of new connections

37

37.1

Where any apparatus of a public utility undertaker or of a public
communications provider is removed under article 35 (statutory undertakers)
any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a supply was
given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from the undertaker
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

37.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed under article 35, any person who is—

37.2.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

37.2.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from the undertaker compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

37.3

This article does not have effect in relation to apparatus to which article 36
(apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers in stopped up streets) ro Part
3 of the 1991 Act applies.

37.4

In this paragraph—

      “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) (interpretation of chapter 1) of the Communications Act 2003 ; and
“ public utility undertaker ” means a gas, water, electricity or sewerage
undertaker.

#### Special category land

38

38.1

On the exercise by the undertaker of the relevant Order powers, so much of the
special category land as is required for the purposes of the exercise by the
undertaker of the Order rights is discharged from all rights, trusts and
incidents to which it was previously subject, so far as their continuance
would be inconsistent with the exercise by the undertaker of the Order rights.

38.2

So far as the temporary use of land under article 33 (temporary use of land
for carrying out the authorised development) is concerned, then the discharge
in paragraph (1) is only for such time as the land is being used under that
article.

38.3

In this article—

      “ Order rights ” means the rights and powers exercisable over the
special category land by the undertaker under article 26 (compulsory
acquisition of rights and imposition of restrictive covenants) and article 33;
and           “ special category land ” means the land identified as forming
part of a public open space numbered 1/2f, 1/2i and 2/2a in the book of
reference and on the plan entitled “special category land plans”.

### OPERATIONS

#### Felling or lopping of trees and removal of hedgerows

39

39.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree or shrub, within or overhanging land
within the Order limits, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it
to be necessary to do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

39.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

39.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised development.

39.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1)  or (4), the
undertaker must

39.2.a

do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub;

39.2.b

pay compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such
activity; and

39.2.c

take steps to avoid a breach of the provisions of the Wildlife and Countryside
Act 1981  and the Conservation of Habitats and Species Regulations 2017  or
any successor acts and regulations.

39.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

39.4

The undertaker may, for the purposes of carrying out the authorised
development but subject to paragraph (2) —

39.4.a

remove any hedgerows within the Order limits and specified in Schedule 8 Part
1 (removal of hedgerows);

39.4.b

remove the important hedgerows as are within the Order limits and specified in
Schedule 8 Part 2 (removal of important hedgerows); and

39.4.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), and with the consent of
the local authority in whose area the hedgerow is located, remove or
translocate any hedgerow within the Order limits that is required to be
removed.

39.5

The grant of consent of a local authority in terms of paragraph (4)(c) must
not be unreasonably withheld.

39.6

If a local authority fails to notify the undertaker of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (4)(c) the local
authority is deemed to have granted consent.

39.7

Any application to which this article applies must include a statement that
the provisions of paragraph (6) apply to that application.

39.8

In this article “ hedgerow ” and “ important hedgerow ” have the same meaning
as in the Hedgerow Regulations 1997 .

#### Trees subject to tree preservation orders

40

40.1

The undertaker may fell or lop any tree within or overhanging land within the
Order limits subject to a tree preservation order which was made after 24 July
2020, if the undertaker reasonably believes it to be necessary to do so to
prevent the tree or shrub—

40.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised development or any apparatus used in connection
with the authorised development; or

40.1.b

from constituting a danger to passengers or other persons using the authorised
development.

40.2

In carrying out any activity authorised by paragraph  (1) —

40.2.a

the undertaker must do no unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay
compensation to any person for any loss or damage arising from such activity;

40.2.b

the duty contained in section 206(1)  (replacement of trees) of the 1990 Act
is not to apply although where possible the undertaker is to seek to replace
any trees which are removed; and

40.2.c

the undertaker must consult the relevant planning authority prior to that
activity taking place.

40.3

The authority given in paragraph  (1)  constitutes a deemed consent under the
relevant tree preservation order.

40.4

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph  (2)
, or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined under Part 1
(determination of questions of disputed compensation) of the 1961 Act.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Application of landlord and tenant law

41

41.1

This article applies to—

41.1.a

any agreement for leasing to any person the whole or any part of the
authorised development or the right to operate the same; and

41.1.b

any agreement entered into by the undertaker with any person for the
construction, maintenance, use or operation of the authorised development, or
any part of it,

so far as any such agreement relates to the terms on which any land which is
the subject of a lease granted by or under that agreement is to be provided
for that person’s use.

41.2

No enactment or rule of law regulating the rights and obligations of landlords
and tenants prejudices the operation of any agreement to which this article
applies.

41.3

No such enactment or rule of law applies in relation to the rights and
obligations of the parties to any lease granted by or under any such agreement
so as to—

41.3.a

exclude or in any respect modify any of the rights and obligations of those
parties under the terms of the lease, whether with respect to the termination
of the tenancy or any other matter;

41.3.b

confer or impose on any such party any right or obligation arising out of or
connected with anything done or omitted on or in relation to land which is the
subject of the lease, in addition to any such right or obligation provided for
by the terms of the lease; or

41.3.c

restrict the enforcement (whether by action for damages or otherwise) by any
party to the lease of any obligation of any other party under the lease.

#### Operational land for purposes of the 1990 Act

42

Development consent granted by this Order is to be treated as specific
planning permission for the purposes of section 264(3)(a) (cases in which land
is to be treated as operational land for the purposes of that Act) of the 1990
Act.

#### Defence to proceedings in respect of statutory nuisance

43

43.1

Where proceedings are brought under section 82(1) (summary proceedings by
person aggrieved by statutory nuisance) of the Environmental Protection Act
1990  in relation to a nuisance falling within paragraphs (d), (fb), (g) or
(ga) of section 79(1) (statutory nuisances and inspections therefor) of that
Act no order is to be made, and no fine may be imposed, under section 82(2)
of that Act if—

43.1.a

the defendant shows that the nuisance—

43.1.a.i

relates to premises used by the undertaker for the purposes of or in
connection with the construction or maintenance of the authorised development
and that the nuisance is attributable to the carrying out of the authorised
development in accordance with a notice served under section 60 (control of
noise on construction sites), or a consent given under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites), of the Control of Pollution Act 1974;
or

43.1.a.ii

is a consequence of the construction or maintenance of the authorised
development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided; or

43.1.b

the defendant shows that the nuisance is a consequence of the use of the
authorised development and that it cannot reasonably be avoided.

43.2

Section 61(9)  (prior consent for work on construction sites) to include
statement that it does not of itself constitute a defence to proceedings under
section 82 of the Environmental Protection Act 1990) of the Control of
Pollution Act 1974 does not apply where the consent relates to the use of
premises by the undertaker for the purposes of or in connection with the
construction or maintenance of the authorised development.

#### No double recovery

44

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract, or any rule of law, or
under two or more different provisions of this Order.

#### Disregard of certain improvements etc.

45

45.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land or right over any land under this Order, the tribunal
must not take into account—

45.1.a

any interest in land; or

45.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works carried out or improvement or alteration made on the relevant
land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the carrying out of the works or the making of the
improvement or alteration as part of the authorised development was not
reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to obtaining compensation
or increased compensation.

45.2

In paragraph  (1)  “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works constructed or the improvement or
alteration made as part of the authorised development, directly or indirectly
concerned.

#### Set off for enhancement in value of retained land

46

46.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person under this Order of any land (including the
subsoil) the tribunal must set off against the value of the land so acquired
any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity which will accrue to that person by reason of the
construction of the authorised development.

46.2

In assessing the compensation payable to any person in respect of the
acquisition from that person of any new rights over land (including the
subsoil) under article 26 (compulsory acquisition of rights and imposition of
restrictive covenants), the tribunal must set off against the value of the
rights so acquired—

46.2.a

any increase in the value of the land over which the new rights are required;
and

46.2.b

any increase in value of any contiguous or adjacent land belonging to that
person in the same capacity,

which will accrue to that person by reason of the construction of the
authorised development.

46.3

The 1961 Act has effect, subject to paragraphs  (1)  and  (2)  as if this
Order were a local enactment for the purposes of that Act.

#### Appeals relating to the Control of Pollution Act 1974

47

47.1

The undertaker may appeal in the event that a local authority issues a notice
under section 60 (control of noise on construction sites), or does not give
consent or grants consent but subject to conditions, under section 61 (prior
consent for work on construction sites) of the Control of Pollution Act 1974 .

47.2

The appeal process is as follows—

47.2.a

any appeal by the undertaker must be made within 42 days of the date of the
notice of the decision, or the date by which a decision was due to be made, as
the case may be;

47.2.b

the undertaker must submit the appeal documentation to the Secretary of State
and must on the same day provide copies of the appeal documentation to the
local authority and affix a notice to a conspicuous object on or near the site
of the works which are the subject of such appeal, which must give details of
the decision of the local authority and notice that an appeal has been made
together with the address within the locality where the appeal documents may
be inspected and details of the manner in which representations on the appeal
may be made;

47.2.c

as soon as is practicable after receiving the appeal documentation, the
Secretary of State must appoint a person to consider the appeal (“ the
appointed person ”) and must notify the appeal parties of the identity of the
appointed person, a start date and the address to which all correspondence for
their attention should be sent;

47.2.d

the local authority must submit their written representations to the appointed
person in respect of the appeal within 10 business days of the start date and
must ensure that copies of their written representations and any other
representations as sent to the appointed person are sent to each other and to
the undertaker on the day on which they are submitted to the appointed person;

47.2.e

the appeal parties must make any counter-submissions to the appointed person
within 10 business days of receipt of written representations under sub-
paragraph  (d) ; and

47.2.f

the appointed person must make a decision and notify it to the appeal parties,
with reasons, as soon as reasonably practicable.

47.3

The appointment of the person under sub-paragraph  (2) (c)  may be undertaken
by a person appointed by the Secretary of State for this purpose instead of by
the Secretary of State.

47.4

In the event that the appointed person considers that further information is
necessary to enable the appointed person to consider the appeal, the appointed
person must as soon as practicable notify the appeal parties in writing
specifying the further information required, the appeal party from whom the
information is sought, and the date by which the information is to be
submitted.

47.5

Any further information required under paragraph  (4)  must be provided by the
party from whom the information is sought to the appointed person and to other
appeal parties by the date specified by the appointed person.

47.6

The appointed person must notify the appeal parties of the revised timetable
for the appeal on or before that day.

47.7

The revised timetable for the appeal must require submission of written
representations to the appointed person within 10 business days of the agreed
date but must otherwise be in accordance with the process and time limits set
out in sub-paragraphs  (2) (c)  to  (e) .

47.8

On an appeal under this paragraph, the appointed person may—

47.8.a

allow or dismiss the appeal; or

47.8.b

reverse or vary any part of the decision of the local authority (whether the
appeal relates to that part of it or not),

and may deal with the application as if it had been made to the appointed
person in the first instance.

47.9

The appointed person may proceed to a decision on an appeal taking into
account such written representations as have been sent within the relevant
time limits and in the sole discretion of the appointed person such written
representations as have been sent outside the relevant time limits.

47.10

The appointed person may proceed to a decision even though no written
representations have been made within the relevant time limits, if it appears
to the appointed person that there is sufficient material to enable a decision
to be made on the merits of the case.

47.11

The decision of the appointed person on an appeal is final and binding on the
parties, and a court may entertain proceedings for questioning the decision
only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for judicial review.

47.12

Except where a direction is given under paragraph  (13)  requiring some or all
of the costs of the appointed person to be paid by the local authority, the
reasonable costs of the appointed person must be met by the undertaker.

47.13

The appointed person may give directions as to the costs of the appeal and as
to the parties by whom such costs are to be paid.

47.14

In considering whether to make any such direction and the terms on which it is
to be made, the appointed person must have regard to the relevant Planning
Practice Guidance published by the Department for Levelling Up, Housing, and
Communities or such guidance as may from time to time replace it.

#### Use of consecrated land

48

48.1

Section 239 (use and development of burial grounds) of the 1990 Act applies—

48.1.a

in relation to land, other than a right over land, acquired for the purposes
of the authorised development (whether or not by agreement), so as to permit
use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions of this Order; and

48.1.b

in relation to a right over land so acquired (whether or not by agreement), or
the temporary use of land pursuant to articles 33 (temporary use of land for
constructing the authorised development) or 34 (temporary use of land for
maintaining the authorised development), so as to permit the exercise of that
right or the temporary use by the undertaker in accordance with the provisions
of this Order,

and in section 240(3) of the 1990 Act reference to a “ statutory undertaker ”
includes the undertaker and reference to “ any other enactment ” includes this
Order.

48.2

The Town and Country Planning (Churches, Places of Religious Worship and
Burial Grounds) Regulations 1950  do not apply to the authorised development.

#### Protection of interests

49

Schedule 9 (protective provisions) to the Order has effect.

#### Certification of documents, etc.

50

50.1

As soon as practicable after the making of this Order, the undertaker must
submit copies of each of the plans and documents set out in Schedule 10
(documents, etc to be certified) to the Secretary of State for certification
as true copies of those plans and documents.

50.2

Where any plan or document set out in Schedule 10 requires to be amended to
reflect the terms of the Secretary of State’s decision to make the Order, that
plan or document in the form amended to the Secretary of State’s satisfaction
is the version of the plan or document required to be certified under
paragraph  (1) .

50.3

A plan or document so certified will be admissible in any proceedings as
evidence of the contents of the document of which it is a copy.

#### Service of notices

51

51.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

51.1.a

by post;

51.1.b

by delivering it to the person on whom it is to be served or to whom it is to
be given or supplied; or

51.1.c

with the consent of the recipient and subject to paragraphs (5) to (8) by
electronic transmission.

51.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

51.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph  (1)  is, if that person has given an
address for service, that address, and otherwise—

51.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

51.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

51.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

51.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner”, or as
the case may be “occupier”, of the land (describing it); and

51.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

51.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission the
requirement is to be taken to be fulfilled only where—

51.5.a

the recipient of the notice or other document to be transmitted has given
consent to the use of electronic transmission in writing or by electronic
transmission;

51.5.b

the notice or document is capable of being accessed by the recipient;

51.5.c

the notice or document is legible in all material respects; and

51.5.d

the notice or document is in a form sufficiently permanent to be used for
subsequent reference.

51.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or part of that notice or other document the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

51.7

Any consent to the use of electronic communication given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

51.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

51.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

51.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

51.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

51.10

In this article “ legible in all material respects ” means that the
information contained in the notice or document is available to that person to
no lesser extent than it would be if served, given or supplied by means of a
notice or document in printed form.

#### Arbitration

52

Except where otherwise expressly provided for in this Order and unless
otherwise agreed between the parties, any difference under any provision of
this Order (other than a difference which falls to be determined by the
tribunal) must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

#### Crown Rights

53

53.1

Nothing in this Order affects prejudicially any estate, right, power,
privilege, authority or exemption of the Crown and in particular, nothing in
this Order authorises the undertaker to use, enter upon or in any manner
interfere with any land or rights of any description—

53.1.a

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and forming part of The Crown
Estate without the consent in writing of the Crown Estate Commissioners;

53.1.b

belonging to Her Majesty in right of the Crown and not forming part of The
Crown Estate without the consent in writing of the government department
having the management of that land; or

53.1.c

belonging to a government department or held in trust for Her Majesty for the
purposes of a government department without the consent in writing of that
government department.

53.2

Paragraph  (1)  does not apply to the exercise of any right under this Order
for the compulsory purchase of any interest in any Crown land (as defined in
the 2008 Act) for the time being held otherwise than by or on behalf of the
Crown.

53.3

A consent under paragraph  (1)  may be given unconditionally or subject to
terms and conditions; and is deemed to have been given in writing where it is
sent electronically.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport
Natasha Kopala   Head of the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department
for Transport     12th August 2022

## SCHEDULES

  AUTHORISED DEVELOPMENT

Article 2

  In the administrative areas of Norfolk County Council and Broadland, South
Norfolk and Breckland District Councils.

  The authorised development is a nationally significant infrastructure
project as defined in sections 14 (nationally significant infrastructure
projects: general) and 22 (highways)  of the 2008 Act and associated
development within the meaning of section 115(2)  of the 2008 Act, comprising—

  Work No. 1  – Alteration of the A47 of 9,169 metres in length from a point
370m west of Fox Lane overbridge to a point 180m west of Easton roundabout,
including the construction of a mainline dual carriageway, footways,
embankments, two laybys, police observation platform, maintenance accesses,
approaches and associated drainage and noise barriers shown on sheet numbers
1, 2, 4 to 9 and 11 to 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 2  – a combination of re-surfaced, realigned and new carriageway
from Main Road east for 380 metres to the new junction with Lyng Road (Work
No. 4) and then 775 metres to re-join the existing A47 alignment at the
altered junction with Low Road, including footways, embankments, approaches,
associated drainage and flood protection bund shown on sheet numbers 1, 2 and
4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 3  – a new driveable access track, associated earthworks and
drainage, from an existing access onto Fox Lane and a new field access with
passing places, running eastwards for 579 metres to a private property east of
Oak Farm, shown on sheet number 1 of the works plans;

  Work No. 4  – a combination of new and realigned carriageway, footways,
embankments, approaches and associated drainage to form the realigned Lyng
Road north of the junction with Work No. 2, shown on sheet number 2 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 5  – drainage works east of Oak Farm comprising an extension of the
existing West Culvert under the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work
No.1) and creation of the new West Culvert under Work No. 2 east of the new
junction to the realigned Lyng Road (Work No. 4), shown on sheet number 2 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 6  – a new drainage basin south east of Oak Farm, plus associated
drainage and driveable maintenance access track with an outfall into the local
watercourse and a drainage connection to the basin on the southern side of the
proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No.1), shown on sheet number 2 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 7  – a new drainage basin with associated drainage and driveable
maintenance access track south from the A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work
No. 1) with an outfall into the River Tud east of Whitford bridge and a
drainage connection to the basin, shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 8  – a combination of new and widened carriageway, footways,
embankments and associated drainage between the existing Mattishall Lane
alignment and the proposed Mattishall Lane Link Road (Work No. 9), shown on
sheet number 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 9  – a new carriageway, footways, approaches, drainage and
underbridge with cycle track forming the new Mattishall Lane Link Road from
the existing A47 471 metres south west to Mattishall Lane, shown on sheet
number 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 10  – alteration of the existing A47 and Mattishall Lane junction
including the provision of a ghost island and the creation and upgrade of
footways on Mattishall Lane and the existing A47 between the new Mattishall
Lane Link Road (Work No.9) junction to the west and the Hockering junction
with the existing A47 to the east plus the creation of a new field access off
Mattishall Lane, shown on sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 11  – a new driveable access track with passing places, from
Mattishall Lane south of the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No.
1) running eastwards for 469 metres, shown on sheet numbers 4 and 5 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 12  – a new drainage basin, associated drainage and driveable
maintenance access track and a new outfall into the River Tud between Work No.
11 and the River Tud with a drainage connection to the basin, shown on sheet
number 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 13  – a new culvert at Newgate House, under the proposed A47
mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1) south of Gypsy Lane, shown on sheet
number 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 14  – a new drainage basin east of Gypsy Lane with associated
drainage and a driveable maintenance access track north from the A47 mainline
dual carriageway (Work No. 1) with an outfall into the River Tud to the south
and a drainage connection under the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway
(Work No. 1) to the basin, shown on sheet number 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 15  – a new drainage basin, associated drainage, a wetland area
east of Church Lane, and a driveable maintenance access track from Work No 16,
with a new outfall into the River Tud east of Church Lane bridge and a
drainage connection to the basin shown on sheet number 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 16  – a new driveable access track with passing place, associated
earthworks and drainage, from Church Lane 469 metres east to Work No. 15 and
Hillcrest Cottage, shown on sheet numbers 7 and 8 of the works plans;

  Work No. 17  – a combination of re-surfaced, realigned and new carriageway
with cycle track, embankments, approaches and associated drainage to form the
new link road from the existing A47 east of Hockering 913 metres east to Wood
Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 20), shown on sheet
numbers 7, 8 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 18  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction east bound off slip road to the northern dumbbell
roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 8, 9 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 19  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction west bound on slip road from the southern dumbbell
roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 8 and 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 20  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet
number 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 21  – a new Wood Lane junction underbridge and associated
carriageway, embankments and drainage between the dumbbell roundabouts (Work
Nos. 20 and 22), shown on sheet numbers 9 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 22  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction southern dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet
number 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 23  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction east bound on slip road from the northern dumbbell
roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 9 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 24  – a new carriageway, embankments and associated drainage to
form the Wood Lane junction west bound off slip road to the southern dumbbell
roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 9 and 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 25  –a combination of re-surfaced and new carriageway, footways,
embankments and associated drainage to form the new B1535 Wood Lane junction
with Work No. 17, shown on sheet number 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 26  – a new restricted byway from Hall Farm underpass (Work No. 30)
west 781 metres to Work No. 26a the optional cycle track connection to the
realigned Wood Lane, shown on sheet numbers 9, 10 and 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 26a  – a new cycle track between the realigned B1535 Wood Lane
(Work No. 25) and the start of the new restricted byway (Work No. 26) which
meets the diverted restricted byway Honingham RB1, shown on sheet number 10 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 27  – a new drainage basin, associated drainage and driveable
maintenance access track, between the existing A47 and proposed A47 mainline
dual carriageway (Work No. 1) east of the proposed A47 Wood Lane junction
southern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 22), accessed from Work No. 32, shown
on sheet number 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 28  – a combination of realigned and new carriageway with footways,
embankments, approaches and associated drainage to form the link to Dereham
Road, Honingham, from Work No. 32 and traffic calming measures at Dereham Road
, shown on sheet numbers 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 29  – a new bridleway with new cycle track between Berrys Lane and
Dereham Road to replace an existing parallel footpath, shown on sheet number 9
of the works plans;

  Work No. 30  – a new Hall Farm underpass, access road to the existing A47
and new section of associated access ramps joining the new restricted byway
from Wood Lane junction (Work No. 26), shown on sheet number 11 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 31  – a new drainage basin between the existing A47 and proposed
A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1) and south east of Hall Farm
underpass (Work No. 30), with associated drainage connections and a driveable
maintenance access track to the Hall Farm access track (Work No. 30), shown on
sheet number 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 32  – reconfiguration of the existing A47 carriageway north of
Honingham with a new cycle track, embankments and associated drainage,
including a ghost island at the existing A47 junction with the realigned
Dereham Road (Work No.28) and modified Honingham bypass structure over the
River Tud, between the Wood Lane junction southern dumbbell roundabout (Work
No. 22) east 1,663 metres to the existing A47 Honingham roundabout , shown on
sheet numbers 9, 11, 12 and 13 of the works plans;

  Work No. 33  – a new driveable private access track with passing places,
associated earthworks and drainage, connecting Hall Farm to Hall Farm
underpass and access road (Work No. 30), shown on sheet number 11 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 34  – a new drainage basin, east of the proposed A47 mainline dual
carriageway (Work No. 1) and north of the new A47 River Tud crossing (Work No.
35), with associated drainage and a driveable access track from Work No. 1,
shown on sheet number 12 of the works plans;

  Work No. 35  – a new bridge structure over the River Tud with new
carriageway, embankments, approaches and associated drainage for the A47 River
Tud crossing, with associated flood risk compensation earthworks south of the
River Tud between the existing A47 and proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway
(Work No. 1) including fences for the protection of bats shown on sheet number
12 of the works plans;

  Work No. 36  – a new drainage basin and wetland area south of the River Tud
crossing (Work No. 35), between the existing A47 and proposed A47 mainline
dual carriageway (Work No. 1), with associated drainage connections and a new
outfall to the River Tud west of the River Tud crossing and driveable
maintenance access track from Work No. 32, shown on sheet number 12 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 37  – a new cycle track between Honingham roundabout and the
existing A47 west of St Andrew’s Church (Work No. 39), new Honingham church
underpass, embankments, and drainage shown on sheet number 13 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 38  – a replacement hardstanding area west of St Andrew’s Church,
Honingham, and associated access road to the existing A47 (Work No. 39), shown
on sheet number 13 of the works plans.

  Work No. 39  –alteration and reconfiguration of the existing A47 between the
proposed cycle track (Work No. 37) and Taverham Road to provide a single lane
access road incorporating parking spaces, a vehicle turning area, a secure
access gate and adjacent cycle track south east of St Andrew’s Church, shown
on sheet numbers 13 and 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 40  – realigned new carriageway, footways, embankments, and
drainage between Honingham roundabout and the proposed Norwich Road junction
southern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 46), shown on sheet numbers 13 and 14
of the works plans;

  Work No. 41  – a new drainage basin and wetland area, associated drainage
with new outfall to the River Tud and driveable access track, east of Taverham
Road and between the River Tud and Work No. 47, shown on sheet 14 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 42  – a new carriageway, embankments and drainage to form the
proposed Norwich Road junction eastbound off-slip road to the northern
dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 13 and 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 43  – a new carriageway, embankments and drainage to form the
proposed Norwich Road junction westbound on-slip road from the southern
dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 13 and 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 44  – a new carriageway, embankments and drainage to form the
proposed Norwich Road junction northern dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet
number 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 45  – a new Norwich Road junction underbridge and associated
carriageway, embankments and drainage between the dumbbell roundabouts (Work
Nos. 44 and 46), shown on sheet number 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 46  – a new carriageway, embankments and drainage to form the
proposed Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet
number 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 47  – a new and altered carriageway, footways, embankment and
drainage from the proposed Norwich Road junction northern dumbbell roundabout
(Work No. 44) north 270 metres to Taverham Road, shown on sheet number 14 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 48  – new carriageway, embankments, approaches and drainage to form
the proposed Norwich Road junction east bound on slip road from the northern
dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 14 and 15 of the works plans;

  Work No. 49  – a new carriageway, embankments, approaches and drainage to
form the proposed Norwich Road junction west bound off slip road to the
southern dumbbell roundabout, shown on sheet numbers 14 and 15 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 50  – a realigned and new carriageway, embankments, approaches and
drainage from the proposed Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout
(Work No. 46) east 1,265 metres to Dereham Road, Easton, shown on sheet
numbers 14, 15 and 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 51  – a new carriageway from the realigned Taverham Road (Work No.
47) to a new field access and a new cycle track to Church Lane, Easton, plus
associated embankments and drainage, shown on sheet numbers 14, 15 and 16 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 52  – a new Easton footbridge, embankments, drainage and access
ramps to carry a cycle track between Church Lane, north of the A47, and
Dereham Road, Easton, shown on sheet numbers 15 and 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 53  – alterations to Church Lane carriageway, embankments and
drainage to create a new driveable access road and new cycle track linking
Work No. 52 with the junction of Church Lane with Ringland Road, shown on
sheet number 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 54  – altering the southern corner of Rotten Row and Church Lane
junction with associated drainage alterations, shown on sheet number 17 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 55  – southern end of a surface water drainage channel crossing the
new driveable access track, between Church Lane and Hillcrest Cottage (Work
No. 16) from the north side, shown on sheet number 8 of the works plans;

  Work No. 56  – flood alleviation compensation and environmental mitigation
area including earthworks, embankments, new ponds, new wetlands and
watercourse alterations north of Work No. 2 and east of Lyng Road, shown on
sheet 2 and sheet number 2 (inset A) of the works plans;

  Work No. 57  – flood alleviation compensation and environmental mitigation
area, including watercourse alterations and new wetlands, north of The Street
and to the east of Hockering, shown on sheet number 6 and sheet number 6
(inset B) of the works plans;

  Work No. 58  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area
south of the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1), south east
of Work No. 5, east of Lyng Road and north of Low Road, shown on sheet 2 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 59  – a traffic management site compound between the existing A47,
Low Road, the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1) and the
proposed Mattishall Lane Link Road (Work No. 9), shown on sheet 4 of the work
plans;

  Work No. 60  – a temporary material storage area between the existing A47,
the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1), the proposed
Mattishall Lane Link Road (Work No. 9) and existing Mattishall Lane, shown on
sheet 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 61  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area,
between the existing A47 and proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work
No.1) south east of Hockering, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 62  – a temporary compound area, including material storage,
management and processing, south of the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway
(Work No. 1), east of Hillcrest Cottage and south west of the proposed A47
Wood Lane Junction southern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 22), including a
temporary connection to existing overhead 11kV electricity cables shown on
sheets 8 and 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 63  – a temporary material storage area south and west of the
proposed A47 Wood Lane Junction southern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 22),
shown on sheet 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 64  – a material storage area north of the proposed A47 mainline
dual carriageway (Work No. 1) and east of the proposed A47 Wood Lane Junction
northern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 20), shown on sheet numbers 10 and 11
of the works plans;

  Work No. 65  – a temporary main compound area, including material storage,
management and processing, south of the existing A47 Honingham roundabout,
shown on sheet 13 of the work plans;

  Work No. 66  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area
south of the existing A47 Honingham roundabout adjacent to east side of Work
No. 65, shown on sheet 13 of the work plans;

  Work No. 67  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area
north east of the proposed A47 Norwich Road junction northern dumbbell
roundabout (Work No. 44) and east of Work No. 41, shown on sheet 14 of the
works plans;

  Work No. 68  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area
east of the proposed Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout (Work
No. 46), shown on sheet numbers 14 and 15 of the works plans;

  Work No. 69  –a temporary material storage, management and processing area
north of the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1) situated
between Work Nos. 93 and 94, shown on sheet number 15 of the works plans;

  Work No. 70  –a temporary material storage, management and processing area
north of the proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1) situated
between Work No. 93 and 94, shown on sheet number 15 of the works plans;

  Work No. 71  – a temporary compound area north of the existing Easton
roundabout and west of Church Lane, Easton, shown on sheet numbers 15 and 16
of the works plans;

  Work No. 72  – a temporary material storage, management and processing area
north of Work No. 71 and between Work No. 94 and Church Lane, Easton, shown on
sheet numbers 15 and 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 73  – removal of the overhead electronic communications cables
crossing Work No.1 and 2 between Poppy Wood and Oak Farm, shown on sheet
numbers 1 and 2 of the works plans;

  Work No. 74  – diversion of potable water pipes and overhead electronic
communications and low voltage electricity utility cables along the route of
and to the west of the existing Mattishall Lane and crossing Work Nos. 1, 8,
9, 10 and 11, shown on sheet number 4 of the works plans;

  Work No. 75  – undergrounding an overhead electronic communications utility
line along Mill Lane, Hockering, crossing Work No. 1, shown on sheet number 5
of the works plans;

  Work No. 76  – diversion and undergrounding an overhead 11kV electricity
line crossing Work No. 1 between the existing A47 and the River Tud, east of
Mill Lane, Hockering, shown on sheet number 5 of the works plans;

  Work No. 77  – diversion of a main effluent pipeline crossing Work No. 1
between Hockering Water Recycling Centre, Gypsy Lane, and the River Tud, shown
on sheet number 6 of the works plans;

  Work No. 78  – diversion and undergrounding of an overhead 11kV electricity
line crossing Work No. 1 south east of Gypsy Lane and west of a private
property at the western end of Trap’s Lane, shown on sheet numbers 6 and 7 of
the works plans;

  Work No. 79  – diversion and undergrounding of an overhead 11kV electricity
line crossing Work No. 1 between the existing A47 and Trap’s Lane, west of
Church Lane, shown on sheet number 7 of the works plans;

  Work No. 80  – diversion of potable water pipeline and electronic
communications cables crossed by Work No. 1, 15, 16 and 17 between the
existing A47 and the Church Lane properties and between Church Lane and
Hillcrest Cottage, shown on sheet numbers 7 and 8 of the works plans;

  Work No. 81  – installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities and
electronic communications code operators in north side of the verge of Work
No. 17 between the existing A47 and Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell
roundabout (Work No. 20), shown on sheet numbers 7, 8 and 10 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 82  – removal of electronic communications overhead utility cables
to Hillcrest Cottage replaced by Work Nos. 80 and 83, shown on sheet number 8
of the works plans;

  Work No. 83  – installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for utilities
electronic communications code operators along the track between Hillcrest
Cottage and Wood Lane junction southern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 22)
crossing Work Nos 1 and 16, shown on sheet numbers 8 and 9 of the works plans;

  Work No. 84  – diversion of a high pressure gas pipeline, potable water
pipeline and overhead electronic communications and low voltage electricity
utility cables along Wood Lane, the existing A47, Berrys Lane and Dereham
Road, Honingham, affected by Works Nos. 1, 19, 22, 23, 24, 26, 27, 28, 29 and
32, shown on sheet numbers 9 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 85  – diversion and undergrounding of electronic communications
overhead utility cables, east of Wood Lane, crossing Work Nos. 1, 17, 18, 20,
21, 22, 24, 25 and 26a, shown on sheet numbers 9 and 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 86  – diversion of 11kV electricity cables crossing the new
junction between the new Hall Farm underpass and access road (Work No. 30) and
the existing A47, shown on sheet number 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 87  – diversion and undergrounding of electronic communications
overhead utility cables along the access track to Hall Farm from the existing
A47 crossing Work Nos. 1 and 33, shown on sheet number 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 88  – diversion and undergrounding an overhead 11kV electricity
cable crossing Work No. 1 between the existing A47 and Hall Farm, shown on
sheet number 11 of the works plans;

  Work No. 89  – diversion of a potable water pipeline, an effluent pipeline,
overhead electronic communications and low voltage electricity utility cables
between the existing Honingham roundabout and existing A47 east of St Andrew’s
Church crossed by Works Nos. 1, 32, 37, 38, 39 and 40, shown on sheet numbers
12, 13 and 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 90  – diversion of electricity and electronic communications
utility cables crossing the existing A47 and realigned Taverham Road (Works
No. 39 and 47), shown on sheet number 14 of the works plans;

  Work No. 91  – diversion of electronic communication utility cables crossed
by Work Nos. 1, 39, 40, 42, 43 and 47, from Church Farm bridge south along
Taverham Road and Blind Lane, then east along Red Barn Lane and Church Road to
a connection beside Dereham Road, south-east of St Peter’s Church, Easton,
shown on sheet numbers 14, 15, 16, 18 and 19 of the works plans;

  Work No. 92  – diversions on the north side of the proposed A47 mainline
dual carriageway (Work No. 1) of a potable water pipeline, an effluent
pipeline and overhead electronic communications and low voltage electricity
utility cables between Taverham Road and Dereham Road, Easton, crossed by the
proposed A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1), Norwich Road junction
northern dumbbell roundabout (Work No. 44) and connecting slip roads and side
roads, shown on sheet numbers 14 and 15 of the works plans;

  Work No. 93  – alterations to the overhead 132kV electricity line with
associated temporary work areas between the pylons with temporary access
routes to Taverham Road and Church Road, Easton, shown on sheet numbers 15, 19
and 20 of the works plans;

  Work No. 94  – installation of the onshore connection works west of Easton
consented as part of the Hornsea Three Offshore Wind Farm Order 2020,
comprising up to six cable circuits and associated electrical circuit ducts
under Works Nos. 1, 50 and 51, and associated link boxes, joint bays, cable
ducts, cable protection, joint protection, manholes, marker posts, underground
cable marker, tiles and tape, and lighting and other works associated with
cable laying, haul roads, vehicular accesses and construction compounds or if
horizontal direction drilling is to be used, horizontal direction drilling
compounds shown on sheet numbers 15 and 19 of the works plans;

  Work No. 95  – removal of existing 11kV overhead electricity utility cables
and installation of new ground based sub-station beside Dereham Road with low
voltage connection to existing network in highway boundary, shown on sheet
numbers 15 and 16 of the works plans;

  Work No. 96  – environmental mitigation, including watercourse improvements
and creation of ponds and wetlands between the River Tud and proposed A47
mainline dual carriageway (Work No. 1), shown on sheet number 6 of the works
plans;

  Work No. 97  – River Tud crossing ecological and environmental mitigation,
including earthworks, watercourse alterations and creation of ponds and
wetlands between the River Tud, existing A47, the proposed A47 mainline dual
carriageway (Work No. 1) and the drainage basin east of Hall Farm underpass
(Work No. 31), shown on sheet numbers 11 and 12 of the works plans;

  Work No. 98  – new carriageway 50m in length and associated embankments,
approaches and drainage to provide the option for Norwich Western Link road to
connect to the proposed A47 Wood Lane Junction northern dumbbell roundabout
(Work No. 20), shown on sheet number 10 of the works plans;

  Work No. 99  – temporary haul route from the new field access carriageway
connecting to the realigned Taverham Road (Work No. 51) to land parcels
between the River Tud, Taverham Road, the A47 mainline dual carriageway (Work
No. 1) and Church Lane, north of Easton, to replace access for large vehicles
following severance of direct A47 access from Church Lane, shown on sheet
numbers 14 and 15 of the works plans;

  And for the purposes of or in connection with the construction of any of
those works mentioned above, further development within the Order limits which
does not give rise to any materially new or materially different environmental
effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental statement
consisting of:     a     alteration to the layout of any street permanently or
temporarily, including as part of de-trunking or stopping up orders, including
but not limited to increasing or reducing the width of the carriageway of the
street by reducing or increasing the width of any kerb, footpath, footway,
cycle track or verge within the street; altering the level of any such kerb,
footpath, footway, cycle track or verge; installing low noise surfacing; and
landscaping sections of abandoned sections;         b     works required for
the strengthening, improvement, maintenance or reconstruction of any street;
c     ramps, means of access, non-motorised links, footpaths, cycle tracks and
crossing facilities;         d     embankments, viaducts, aprons, abutments,
shafts, foundations, retaining walls, barriers, pumping stations, parapets,
drainage, outfalls, ditches, wing walls, highway lighting, fencing and
culverts;         e     street works, including breaking up or opening up a
street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it; tunnelling or boring under a
street;         f     works to place, alter, remove or maintain street
furniture or apparatus in a street, or apparatus in other land, including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, ducts, traffic signals and
lights;         g     works to alter the course of or otherwise interfere with
a watercourse;         h     landscaping, noise bunds and barriers, works
associated with the provision of ecological mitigation and other works to
mitigate any adverse effects of the construction, maintenance or operation of
the authorised development;         i     works for the benefit or protection
of land affected by the authorised development;         j     site preparation
works, site clearance (including fencing, vegetation removal, demolition of
existing structures and the creation of alternative footpaths); earthworks
(including soil stripping and storage, site levelling); remediation of
contamination;         k     the felling of trees;         l     construction
compounds and working sites, storage areas, temporary vehicle parking,
construction fencing, perimeter enclosure, security fencing, construction-
related buildings, temporary worker accommodation facilities, welfare
facilities, construction lighting, haulage roads and other buildings,
machinery, apparatus, works and conveniences;         m     the provision of
other works including pavement works, kerbing and paved areas works, signing,
signals, gantries, road markings works, traffic management measures including
temporary roads and such other works as are associated with the construction
of the authorised development; and         n     such other works, working
sites, storage areas and works of demolition, as may be necessary or expedient
for the purposes of, or for purposes ancillary to, the construction of the
authorised development.

  REQUIREMENTS

Article 5

##### REQUIREMENTS

###### Interpretation

1

In this Schedule—

      “ completion or completed ” means the relevant parts of the authorised
development are completed and fully open to traffic;           “ contaminated
land ” has the same meaning as that term is given in section 78A of the
Environmental Protection Act 1990 ;           “ DMRB ” means the Design Manual
for Roads and Bridges, which accommodates all current standards, advice and
other documents relating to the design, assessment and operation of trunk
roads and motorways, or any equivalent replacement to the DMRB published;
“ drainage strategy ” means the strategy in Appendix 13.2 of the environmental
statement;           “ ecological works ” means Work Nos. 56 and 97;
“ EMP (Second Iteration) ” means the second iteration of the environmental
management plan produced in accordance with the DMRB, which is to be a refined
version of the EMP (First Iteration) including more detailed versions of the
outline plans contained or listed within the EMP (First Iteration) or any
other plans as required;           “ EMP (Third Iteration) ” means the third
iteration of the environmental management plan produced in accordance with the
DMRB, which is a refined version of the EMP (Second Iteration) and which
relates to the operational and maintenance phase of the authorised
development;           “ European protected species ” has the same meaning as
in regulations 42 (European protected species of animals) and 46 (European
protected species of plants) of the Conservation of Habitats and Species
Regulations 2017 ;           “ the environmental masterplan ” means the
document certified as the masterplan under article  50  (certification of
documents, etc.);           “ lead local flood authority ” has the same
meaning as in the Flood and Water Management Act 2010;           “ IDB ” means
the Norfolk Rivers Drainage Board;           “ the Manual of Contract
Documents for Highway Works ” means the document of that name published
electronically by or on behalf of the strategic highway authority for England
or any equivalent replacement published for that document;           “
nationally protected species ” means any species protected under the Wildlife
and Countryside Act 1981 ; and           “ REAC ” means the Register of
Environmental Actions and Commitments forming table 3.1 of the EMP (First
Iteration).

###### Time limits

2

The authorised development must commence no later than the expiration of 5
years beginning with the date that this Order comes into force.

###### Detailed design

3

3.1

The authorised development must be designed in detail and carried out so that
it is compatible with the preliminary scheme design shown on the works plans
and engineering drawings and sections unless otherwise agreed in writing by
the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker with the
relevant planning authority on matters related to its functions, provided that
the Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the engineering
drawings and sections showing departures from the preliminary scheme design
would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

3.2

Where amended details are approved by the Secretary of State under sub-
paragraph  (1) , those details are deemed to be substituted for the
corresponding engineering drawings and sections and the undertaker must make
those amended details available in electronic form for inspection by members
of the public.

###### Environmental Management Plan

4

4.1

No part of the authorised development, except for the ecological works, is to
commence until an EMP (Second Iteration) for that part, substantially in
accordance with the EMP (First Iteration) has been submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation by the undertaker
with the relevant planning authority, local highway authority, lead local
flood authority, the Environment Agency and Natural England to the extent that
the content of the EMP (Second Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their
functions.

4.2

The EMP (Second Iteration) for a part must be written in accordance with
ISO14001 and so far as is relevant to that part of the authorised development,
must reflect the mitigation measures required by the REAC and set out in the
environmental statement and must include as many of the following plans and
strategies as are applicable to the part of the authorised development to
which it relates—

4.2.a

Site waste management plan;

4.2.b

Materials management plan;

4.2.c

Soil handling management plan;

4.2.d

Construction noise and dust management plan;

4.2.e

Construction communication strategy;

4.2.f

Landscape and ecology management plan;

4.2.g

Biosecurity management plan;

4.2.h

Water monitoring and management plan;

4.2.i

Detailed heritage Written Scheme of Investigation;

4.2.j

Temporary surface water drainage strategy;

4.2.k

INNS management plan; and

4.2.l

Operational UXO emergency plan.

4.3

The relevant part of the authorised development must be constructed in
accordance with the approved EMP (Second Iteration).

4.4

On completion of construction of each part of the authorised development the
EMP (Third Iteration) relating to that part must be submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority and the relevant local highway authority to the extent that
the content of the EMP (Third Iteration) relates to matters relevant to their
functions.

4.5

The relevant part of the authorised development must be operated and
maintained in accordance with the EMP (Third Iteration).

###### Landscaping

5

5.1

The authorised development must be landscaped in accordance with a landscaping
scheme which sets out details of all proposed hard and soft landscaping works
and which has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of
State, following consultation with—

5.1.a

the relevant planning authority; and

5.1.b

Natural England.

5.2

The landscaping scheme must reflect the mitigation measures set out in the
REAC and must be based on the environmental masterplan.

5.3

The landscaping scheme prepared under sub-paragraph (1) must include details
of—

5.3.a

location, number, species mix, size and planting density of any proposed
planting;

5.3.b

cultivation, importing of materials and other operations to ensure plant
establishment;

5.3.c

existing trees to be retained, with measures for their protection during the
construction period;

5.3.d

proposed finished ground levels;

5.3.e

implementation timetables for all landscaping works; and

5.3.f

measures for the replacement, in the first available planting season, of any
tree or shrub planted as part of the landscaping scheme that, within a period
of 5 years after the completion of the part of the authorised development to
which the relevant landscaping scheme relates, dies, becomes seriously
diseased or is seriously damaged.

5.4

All landscaping works must be carried out to a reasonable standard in
accordance with the relevant recommendations of appropriate British Standards
or other more suitable recognised codes of good practice, provided these meet
or exceed the appropriate British Standards.

###### Contaminated land and groundwater

6

6.1

In the event that contaminated land, including groundwater, is found at any
time when carrying out the authorised development which was not previously
identified in the environmental statement, it must be reported as soon as
reasonably practicable to the Secretary of State, the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency, and the undertaker must complete a risk
assessment of the contamination in consultation with the relevant planning
authority and the Environment Agency.

6.2

Where the risk assessment prepared in accordance with sub-paragraph  (1)
determines that remediation of the contaminated land is necessary, a written
scheme and programme for the remedial measures to be taken to render the land
fit for its intended purpose and to prevent any impacts on controlled waters
must be submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority
on matters related to its function and the Environment Agency.

6.3

Remediation must be carried out in accordance with the approved scheme.

###### Protected species

7

7.1

No part of the authorised development is to commence until, for that part,
final preconstruction survey work has been carried out to establish whether
European or nationally protected species are present on any of the land
affected or likely to be affected by that part of the relevant works, or in
any of the trees and shrubs to be lopped or felled as part of the relevant
works.

7.2

Following pre-construction survey work or at any time when carrying out the
authorised development, where—

7.2.a

a protected species is shown to be present, or where there is a reasonable
likelihood of it being present;

7.2.b

application of the relevant assessment methods used in the environmental
statement show that a significant effect is likely to occur which was not
previously identified in the environmental statement; and

7.2.c

that effect is not addressed by any prior approved scheme of protection and
mitigation established in accordance with this paragraph,

the relevant parts of the relevant works must cease until a scheme of
protection and mitigation measures has been submitted to and approved in
writing by the Secretary of State.

7.3

The undertaker must consult with Natural England on the scheme referred to in
subparagraph  (2)  prior to submission to the Secretary of State for approval,
except where a suitably qualified and experienced ecologist, holding where
relevant and appropriate a licence relating to the species in question,
determines that the relevant works do not require a protected species licence.

7.4

The relevant works under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be carried out in accordance
with the approved scheme, unless otherwise agreed by the Secretary of State
after consultation by the undertaker with Natural England, and under any
necessary licences.

###### Surface water drainage

8

8.1

No part of the authorised development, except for the ecological works, is to
commence until, for that part, written details of the surface water drainage
system, reflecting the drainage strategy and the mitigation measures set out
in the REAC including means of pollution control, have been submitted and
approved in writing by the Secretary of State following consultation by the
undertaker with the lead local flood authority, IDB and the Environment Agency
on matters related to their functions.

8.2

The surface water drainage system must be constructed in accordance with the
approved details, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Secretary of State
following consultation by the undertaker with the lead local flood authority,
IDB and the Environment Agency on matters related to its function, provided
that the Secretary of State is satisfied that any amendments to the approved
details would not give rise to any materially new or materially different
environmental effects in comparison with those reported in the environmental
statement.

###### Archaeological remains

9

9.1

No part of the authorised development, is to commence until, for that part, a
written scheme of investigation of areas of archaeological interest,
reflecting the relevant mitigation measures set out in the REAC, has been
submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State, following
consultation by the undertaker with the relevant planning authority, Norfolk
County Council Historic Strategy and Advice Team and Historic England on
matters related to their functions.

9.2

The authorised development must be carried out in accordance with the scheme
referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Traffic management

10

10.1

No part of the authorised development comprising the construction, alteration
or improvement of Work No. 1 is to commence until a traffic management plan
substantially in accordance with the outline traffic management plan, for that
part has been submitted to and approved in writing by the Secretary of State,
following consultation by the undertaker with the relevant highway authority
on matters related to its function.

10.2

The authorised development must be implemented in accordance with the traffic
management plan referred to in sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Fencing

11

Any permanent and temporary fencing and other means of enclosure for the
authorised development must be constructed and installed in accordance with
Manual of Contract Documents for Highway Works maintained by or on behalf of
the undertaker except where any departures from that manual are agreed in
writing by the Secretary of State in connection with the authorised
development.

###### Ecological works

12

12.1

No part of the ecological works is to commence until the siting, design,
method of construction and timetable for delivery of the new ponds and ditches
to be included within Work Nos. 56 and 97 have been submitted to and approved
in writing by the Secretary of State, following consultation with the relevant
planning authority and Natural England.

12.2

The construction of the ponds and ditches forming part of the ecological works
must thereafter be carried out in accordance with the approved details.

###### Ørsted works

13

13.1

No part of Work No. 94 is to commence without the written approval of Ørsted
and all works must be carried out in accordance with requirements 10, 17, 18
and 22 in Schedule 1 Part 3 of the Hornsea Three Order.

###### Approvals and amendments to approved details

14

With respect to any requirement which requires the authorised development to
be carried out in accordance with the details or schemes approved under this
Schedule, the approved details or schemes are taken to include any amendments
that may subsequently be approved in writing by the Secretary of State.

##### PROCEDURE FOR DISCHARGE OF REQUIREMENTS

###### Applications made under requirements

15

15.1

Where an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement (including consent, agreement
or approval in respect of part of a requirement) included in this Order, the
Secretary of State must give notice to the undertaker of the decision on the
application within a period of 8 weeks beginning with—

15.1.a

the day immediately following that on which the application is received by the
Secretary of State;

15.1.b

the day immediately following that on which further information has been
supplied by the undertaker under paragraph 15 (further information); or

15.1.c

such longer period as may be agreed between the parties.

15.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , in the event that the Secretary of State does
not determine an application within the period set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
the Secretary of State is taken to have granted all parts of the application
(without any condition or qualification) at the end of that period.

15.3

Where—

15.3.a

an application has been made to the Secretary of State for any consent,
agreement or approval required by a requirement included in this Order;

15.3.b

the Secretary of State does not determine such application within the period
set out in sub-paragraph  (1) ; and

15.3.c

the application is accompanied by a report from a body required to be
consulted by the undertaker under the requirement that considers it likely
that the subject matter of the application would give rise to any materially
new or materially different environmental effects in comparison with those
reported in the environmental statement,

the application is taken to have been refused by the Secretary of State at the
end of that period.

###### Further information

16

16.1

In relation to any part of an application made under this Schedule, the
Secretary of State has the right to request such further information from the
undertaker as is necessary to enable the Secretary of State to consider the
application.

16.2

In the event that the Secretary of State considers such further information to
be necessary the Secretary of State must, within 21 business days of receipt
of the application, notify the undertaker in writing specifying the further
information required and (if applicable) to which part of the application it
relates.

16.3

In the event that the Secretary of State does not give such notification
within that 21 day business period the Secretary of State is deemed to have
sufficient information to consider the application and is not subsequently
entitled to request further information without the prior agreement of the
undertaker.

16.4

Where further information is requested under this paragraph in relation to
part only of an application, that part is treated as separate from the
remainder of the application for the purposes of calculating the time periods
referred to in paragraph 14 (applications made under requirements) and in this
paragraph.

16.5

In this paragraph, “ business day ” means a day other than Saturday or Sunday,
which is not Christmas Day, Good Friday or a bank holiday under section 1
(bank holidays) of the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971 .

###### Register of requirements

17

17.1

The undertaker must, as soon as practicable following the making of this
Order, establish and maintain in an electronic form suitable for inspection by
members of the public a register of those requirements contained in Part 1 of
this Schedule that provide for further approvals to be given by the Secretary
of State.

17.2

The register must set out in relation to each such requirement the status of
the requirement, in terms of whether any approval to be given by the Secretary
of State has been applied for or given, providing an electronic link to any
document containing any approved details.

17.3

The register must be maintained by the undertaker for a period of 3 years
following completion of the authorised development.

###### Anticipatory steps towards compliance with any requirement

18

If before the coming into force of this Order the undertaker or any other
person has taken any steps that were intended to be steps towards compliance
with any provision of Part 1 of this Schedule, those steps may be taken into
account for the purpose of determining compliance with that provision if they
would have been valid steps for that purpose had they been taken after this
Order came into force.

###### Details of consultation

19

In relation to any provision of this Schedule requiring details to be
submitted to the Secretary of State for approval following consultation by the
undertaker with another party, the undertaker must provide such other party
with not less than 15 business days for any response to the consultation and
thereafter the details submitted to the Secretary of State for approval must
be accompanied by a summary report setting out the consultation undertaken by
the undertaker to inform the details submitted and the undertaker’s response
to that consultation.

  CLASSIFICATIONS OF ROADS, ETC.

Articles 12 and 18

##### TRUNK ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheets 1-2, 4-9 and 11-16     North Tuddenham
Parish       Hockering Parish       East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham
Parish       Easton Parish         A 9.169 kilometre length of new highway to
be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road.       On the eastbound
carriageway from point A 368 metres east of the centreline of the Fox Lane
overbridge in an easterly direction to point B (sheet 16) for a distance of
9.169 kilometres.       On the westbound carriageway from point C 368 metres
east of the centreline of the Fox Lane overbridge in an easterly direction to
point D (sheet 16) for a distance of 9.169 kilometres.     The classification
of roads plans – sheet 7     East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish
New eastbound diverge slip road       A 794 metre length of carriageway to be
classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point U 132 metres east of the
centreline of the Church Lane junction in a north-easterly direction to point
V (sheet 10).     The classification of roads plans – sheet 8 East Tuddenham
Parish     New westbound merge slip road       A 644 metre length of carriage
way to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point W 285 metres
east of the centreline of the Church Lane junction in a south-easterly
direction to point X (sheet 9) a distance of 644 metres.     The
classification of roads plans – sheet 9     East Tuddenham Parish
Honingham Parish         New westbound diverge slip road       A 664 metre
length of carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from
point AI 693 metres north west of the River Tud in an easterly direction to
point AJ (sheet 11).     The classification of roads plans – sheet 10
Honingham Parish     New eastbound merge slip road       A 609 metre length of
carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point AG 185
metres north of the junction of the B1535 with the existing A47 in an easterly
direction to point AH (sheet 11).     The classification of roads plans –
sheet 13 Honingham Parish     New eastbound diverge slip road       A 707
metre length of new carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 mainline
dual carriageway from point AS 233 metres east of the centrepoint of the
roundabout with Norwich Road in a south-easterly direction to point AT (sheet
14).     Honingham Parish     New westbound merge slip road       A 763 metre
length of carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from
point AQ 223 metres east of the centrepoint of the roundabout with Norwich
Road in a south-easterly direction to point AR (sheet 14).     The
classification of roads plans – sheet 15     Honingham Parish       Easton
Parish         New eastbound merge slip road       A 716 metre length of
carriageway to be classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point BB 403m
west of the centrepoint of the A47 roundabout with Dereham Road in an westerly
direction to point BA (sheet 14).         Honingham Parish       Easton Parish
New westbound diverge slip road       A 620 metre length of carriageway to be
classified as part of the A47 Trunk Road from point BD 518m west of the
centrepoint of the A47 roundabout with Dereham Road in an westerly direction
to point BC (sheet 14).

##### CLASSIFIED B ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 9 East Tuddenham Parish New roundabout
to be classified as B Road with reference AB, 980 metres east of the
centreline of the existing A47/Church Lane junction with the existing A47. The
classification of roads plans – sheet 10 East Tuddenham Parish New roundabout
to be classified as B Road with reference AA, 990 metres east of the
centreline of the existing A47/Church Lane junction.     East Tuddenham Parish
Honingham Parish         New roundabout connector road       A 111 metre
length of carriageway to be classified as B Road from point AC, 953 metres
east of the centreline of the existing A47/Church Lane junction, in a south-
easterly direction to point AD (sheet 9).     East Tuddenham Parish     Link
to Wood Lane       A 305 metre length of new carriageway to be classed as B
Road from point S, 145 metres west of the centrepoint of the proposed Wood
Lane junction northern roundabout, in a northern direction to point T.
East Tuddenham Parish     Link Road to existing A47       A 95 metre length of
new carriageway to be classed as B Road from point R1 at the junction with the
proposed link to Wood Lane, in an easterly direction to point R.     The
classification of roads plans – sheet 14 Honingham Parish New roundabout to be
classified as B Road with reference AY, the centrepoint of the roundabout is
118 metres east of the centreline of Blind Lane. Honingham Parish New
roundabout to be classified as B Road with reference AZ, the centrepoint of
the roundabout is 103 metres east of the centreline of Blind Lane. Honingham
Parish     New roundabout connector road       A 144 metre length of
carriageway to be classified as B Road from point AX 82 metres east of the
centreline of Blind Lane in a northerly direction to point AW.

##### CLASSIFIED C ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 1     North Tuddenham Parish
Hockering Parish         Link Road to existing A47       A 1154 metre length
of new carriageway to be classed as C Road. From point G 493 metres east of
the Fox Lane overbridge in an easterly direction to point H (sheet 4).     The
classification of roads plans – sheet 2     North Tuddenham Parish
Hockering Parish         Link to B1147 (Lyng Road)       A 168 metre length of
new carriageway to be classified as C Road from point E at the north side of
the existing pond between the B1147 and the existing A47, in a southerly
direction to point F on the B1147.     The classification of roads plans –
sheet 4     East Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish         Existing A47
A 2090 metre length of de-trunked carriageway to be classed as C Road from
point H 140 metres north west of the Matishall Lane Link Road junction in a
south easterly direction to point Q (sheet 7).     Hockering Parish
Proposed Mattishall Lane Link Road       A 471 metre length of new carriageway
to be classified as C Road from point L, 160 metres north west of the
centreline of the existing A47 / Mattishall Lane junction, in a south westerly
direction to point K.     The classification of roads plans – sheet 7 East
Tuddenham Parish     Link Road to existing A47       A 820 metre length of new
carriageway to be classed as C Road from point Q, 12.5 metres east of the
centreline of the existing A47/Church Lane junction, in an easterly direction
to point R1 (sheet 10).     The classification of roads plans – sheet 9
Honingham Parish     Link to Dereham Road       A 266 metre length of new
carriageway to be classified as C Road from point AM, 269 metres south east of
the centreline of the existing A47 / Berrys Lane junction, in a south then
south easterly direction to point AN.         East Tuddenham Parish
Honingham Parish         Link Road to existing A47       A 1680 metre length
of new carriageway to be classed as C Road from point AK 38 metres south of
the existing A47/Berrys Lane junction in an south easterly direction to point
AL (sheet 13).     The classification of roads plans – sheet 13 Honingham
Parish     Link to Norwich Road       A 1029 metre length of new carriageway
to be classified as C Road from point AE, 46 metres east of the centrepoint of
the Honingham roundabout in a south easterly direction to point AF (sheet 14).
Honingham Parish Existing roundabout to be classified as C Road with reference
BI the centrepoint of the roundabout is 375 metres west of the access to St
Andrew’s Church. The classification of roads plans – sheet 14 Honingham Parish
Link to Taverham Road       A 247 metre length of new carriageway to be
classified as C Road from point AU, 29 metres south of the access to Church
House Farm in a south easterly direction to point AV.         Honingham Parish
Easton Parish         Link to Dereham Road       A 1264 metre length of new
carriageway to be classified as C Road from point BE, 29 metres south east of
the centrepoint of the proposed Norwich Road junction southern roundabout in
an easterly direction to point BF (sheet 16).     The classification of roads
plans – sheet 17 Easton Parish     Realignment of Rotten Row       A 55 metre
length of new carriageway to be classified as C Road from point BG, 55 metres
west of the centreline of the Rotten Row / Church Lane junction to point BH.

##### UNCLASSIFIED ROADS

          (1)       Area         (2)         Length of road       The
classification of roads plans – sheet 4 Hockering Parish     Existing A47 west
of Hockering junction       A 71 metre length of carriageway to be
unclassified from point M, at the existing Mattishall Lane / A47 junction, in
a south westerly direction to point N.     Hockering Parish     Link from
Mattishall Lane Link Road to existing Mattishall Lane       A 158 metre length
of carriageway from point I, at junction with Mattishall Lane Link Road 330m
south of junction with existing A47 in an easterly direction to point J.
The classification of roads plans – sheets 13 Honingham Parish     Existing
A47 to Taverham Road       A 444 metre length of existing carriageway to be
unclassified from point AO, at the access next to St Andrew’s Church, in an
eastern direction to point AP (sheet 14).

##### SPEED LIMITS

  Note: where speed limits are indicated on the plans relating to this Part
(the traffic regulation plans) but are not referenced in this schedule they
indicate that national speed limits apply in accordance with either:     a
the national speed limit set out in—     i     Section 86 (speed limits for
particular classes of vehicles) of, and Schedule 6 (speed limits for
particular classes of vehicles) to the 1984 Act; and         ii     the 70
miles per hour, 60 miles per hour and 50 miles per hour (Temporary Speed
Limit) Order 1977 as varied by the 70 miles per hour, 60 miles per hour and 50
miles per hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Variation) Order 1978 and continued
indefinitely by Regulation 2 of the 70 Miles Per Hour, 60 Miles Per Hour and
50 Miles Per Hour (Temporary Speed Limit) (Continuation) Order 1978 ( S.I.
1978/1548 ) ; or             b     sections 81 and 82 of the Road Traffic
Regulation Act 1984 (which defines speed limits on ‘restricted roads’ by
reference to street lighting),

  and are not subject to this order. For details of the scheme lighting
design, refer to the general arrangement plans.             (1)       Parish
(2)         Road name, number and length         (3)         Speed Limit
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 1     North Tuddenham Parish
Hockering Parish         Proposed Unnamed Road linking to existing A47
From point E, 26m west of the Fox Lane overbridge in an eastern direction to
point F (sheet 4) a distance of 1699m.     50 miles per hour The traffic
regulation plans – sheet 2     North Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish
Unnamed Road which leads to Stone Road       From point AY, at junction with
proposed new road 760m east of junction with Hall Lane in a northern direction
to point AZ, for a distance of 168m.     50 miles per hour The traffic
regulation plans – sheet 4 Hockering Parish     Low Road       From point BB,
at the junction with the existing A47 in a southern direction to point BA a
distance of 23m. (To be used as Field Access).     50 miles per hour Hockering
Parish     Proposed Mattishall Lane Link Road       From point BD, at junction
with existing A47 260m west of junction with The Street in a south-western
direction to point BC for a distance of 471m.     60 miles per hour Hockering
Parish     Mattishall Lane       From point BF, at junction with Mattishall
Lane Link Road 330m south of junction with existing A47 in an easterly
direction to point BE for a distance of 110m.     60 miles per hour Hockering
Parish     Mattishall Lane       From point BH, at the junction with the
existing A47 100m northwest of The Street, in a southwestern direction to
point BG a distance of 71m.     50 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans
– sheet 7     East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish         Proposed
Unnamed Road       From point G, at the crossroads with Church Lane and Sandy
Lane in an eastern direction to point H (sheet 10) at the give way line for
the northern roundabout of the proposed A47 Wood Lane Junction a distance of
916m.     50 miles per hour The traffic regulation plans – sheet 9 Honingham
Parish     Proposed Link to Dereham Road       From point Z, at junction with
the existing A47 in an southern direction to point AA 295m west of junction
with Dereham Road a distance of 243m.     30 miles per hour     East Tuddenham
Parish       Honingham Parish         Existing A47       From point X, at the
exit from the southern roundabout of the proposed A47 Wood Lane junction in an
eastern direction to point Y (sheet 13) the centre point of the existing
Honingham roundabout a distance of 1664m.         Removal of restricted road
status       50 miles per hour     The traffic regulation plans – sheet 10
East Tuddenham Parish     Wood Lane       From point BJ, at junction with new
link road in a northern direction to point BK 1250m south of junction with
Broadway a distance of 305m.     50 miles per hour The traffic regulation
plans – sheet 13 Honingham Parish     Proposed Unnamed Road       From point
AB, at the centrepoint of existing Honingham roundabout in an eastern
direction to point AC (sheet 14) at give way line of Proposed Norwich Road
Junction southern roundabout a distance of 1049m.         Removal of
restricted road status       50 miles per hour     The traffic regulation
plans – sheet 14 Honingham Parish     Existing A47 Road       From point AE,
at junction with Taverham Road in a western direction to point AD (sheet 13) a
distance of 411m.     30 miles per hour Honingham Parish     Taverham Road
From point AG, at new roundabout at Wood Lane Junction in a northern direction
to point AF 1565m south of junction with Weston Road a distance of 243m.
30 miles per hour     Honingham Parish       Easton Parish         Proposed
Link to Dereham Road       From point AS, at exit from Proposed “Norwich Road
Junction” southern roundabout in an eastern direction to point AT (sheet 16)
335m west of junction with Ringland Lane a distance of 1264m.         Removal
of restricted road status       50 miles per hour     The traffic regulation
plans – sheet 17 East Tuddenham Parish     Widened section of Rotten Row and
Church Lane junction       From point AW, at the junction to point AX a
distance of 44 metres.     60 miles per hour

##### REVOCATIONS & VARIATIONS OF EXISTING TRAFFIC REGULATION ORDERS

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Road name, number and length
(3)         Title of Order         (4)         Revocations or Variations
The traffic regulation plans – sheet 1     North Tuddenham Parish
Hockering Parish       East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish
Easton Parish         Existing A47       From point I to points B and D, a
length of 8302 metres     The A47 Trunk Road (Wansford, City of Peterborough
to Great Yarmouth) (24 Hour Clearway) Order 2013 Revocation of clearway along
existing A47 from point I to points B and D (sheet 16).

##### FOOTPATHS, CYCLE TRACKS, FOOTWAYS AND BRIDLEWAYS

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Length of Footpath/Cycle
track/Footway/Bridleway       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2
North Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish         Reference CF27 to CF28
A cycletrack in the verge on the northern side of the Link Road to the
Existing A47 and western side of Lyng Road from point CF27 to CF28, a distance
of 95 metres.         North Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish
Reference CF29 to CF30 (sheet 4)       A cycletrack in the verge on the
eastern side of Lyng Road and northern side of the Link Road to the Existing
A47 from point CF29 to CF30, a distance of 691 metres.     The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 4 Hockering Parish     Reference CF31 to CF32       A
cycletrack in the verge on the northern side of the Link Road to the Existing
A47 from point CF31 to CF32, a distance of 30 metres.     Hockering Parish
Reference CF33 to CF34       A cycletrack in the verge on the eastern side of
the Mattishall Lane Link Road from point CF33 to CF34, a distance of 105
metres.     Hockering Parish     Reference CF35 to CF36       A cycletrack in
the verge on the eastern side of the Mattishall Lane Link Road, along the
existing A47 and the western verge of Mattishall Lane from point CF35 to CF36,
a distance of 480 metres.     Hockering Parish     Reference CF37 to CF38
. A cycletrack in the verge on the southern side of the existing A47 from
point CF37 to CF38, a distance of 101.6 metres.     The rights of way and
access plans – sheet 6 Hockering Parish     Reference A13 to A14       A
footpath from point A13 on Honingham FP8 and point A14 on Honingham FP7, a
distance of 23 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7 East
Tuddenham Parish     Reference CF41 to CF42 (sheet 10)       A cycletrack in
the verge on the northern side of the Link Road from the existing A47 and the
western side of the Link to Wood Lane from point CF41 to CF42, a distance of
844 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 9 Honingham Parish
Reference CF7 to CF8       A cycle track in the verge on the southern side of
Dereham Road from point CF7 to CF8, a distance of 66 metres.     Honingham
Parish     Reference CF9 to CF9A       A cycle track in the verge on the
eastern side of Dereham Road from point CF9 in a northerly direction to meet
the existing A47 and then in the verge on the southern side of the existing
A47 in an easterly direction to a point CF9A, a distance of 260 metres.
Honingham Parish     Reference CF9A to CF10 (sheet 11)       A restricted
byway in the verge from point CF9A on the southern side of the existing A47 in
an easterly direction to a point CF10, a distance of 159 metres.         East
Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish         Reference CF25 to CF26       A
bridleway from a point CF25 on Dereham Road in a westerly direction to a point
CF26 on Blind Lane, a distance of 284 metres     The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 10     East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish
Reference A38 to CF2a       A restricted byway running from the existing
restricted byway, Honingham RB1 to the new restricted byway at point CF2a, a
distance of 175 metres         East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish
Reference CF1 to CF2a       A cycle track from the realigned B1535 Wood Lane
from point CF1 to a point CF2a, to the east of the proposed Norwich Western
Link road, a distance of 264 metres     Honingham Parish     Reference CF2a to
CF2 (sheet 11)       A restricted byway from the connection with the diverted
Honingham RB1 at point CF2a in a south easterly direction to the western side
of the Hall Farm access track and then in a southern direction to point CF2, a
distance of 815 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 11
Honingham Parish     Reference CF3 to CF4 (sheet 13)       A cycle track in
the verge on the northern side of the existing A47 from point CF3 in a south
easterly direction to a point CF4, a distance of 862 metres.     The rights of
way and access plans – sheets 12 Honingham Parish     Reference CF5 to CF6
(sheet 13)       A cycle track in the verge on the northern side of the
existing A47 from point CF5 to a point CF6 at Honingham roundabout, a distance
of 257 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 13 Honingham
Parish     Reference CF11 to CF12       A cycle track from point CF11 at
Honingham roundabout in a south easterly direction to the Honingham underpass,
a north easterly direction through the underpass and then in south easterly
direction to a point CF12 west of St Andrew’s Church, a distance of 368
metres.     Honingham Parish     Reference CF13 to CF14       A cycle track in
the verge on the northern side of the existing A47 from point CF13 south of St
Andrew’s Church in an easterly direction to a point CF14, a distance of 19
metres.     Honingham Parish     Reference CF15 to CF16 (sheet 14)       A
cycle track in the verge on the northern side of the existing A47 from point
CF15 south of St Andrew’s Church in an easterly direction to a point CF16, a
distance of 186 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 14
Honingham Parish     Reference CF17 to CF18       A cycle track in the verge
on the northern side of the existing A47 from a point CF17 south west of
Church House Farm in an easterly direction to a point CF18 on Taverham Road, a
distance of 172 metres.         Honingham Parish       Easton Parish
Reference CF19 to CF20 (sheet 16)       A cycle track from a point CF19 in the
verge on the northern side of Taverham road in a south easterly direction to
point C37 where it separates from Taverham road and continues in an easterly
direction to a point CF20 at Ringland Lane, a distance of 1670 metres.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 16 Easton Parish     Reference CF21 to
CF22       A cycle track from a point CF21 on the cycle track between Taverham
Road and Ringland Lane (CF19 to CF20) over the new Easton footbridge to a
point CF22 on Dereham Road, a distance of 427 metres.     Easton Parish
Reference CF23 to CF24       A footpath from a point CF23 on the cycle track
between Taverham Road and Ringland Lane (CF19 to CF20) to the base of the new
Easton footbridge at point CF24, a distance of 69 metres.

##### ROADS TO BE DE-TRUNKED

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Length of Road       The de-
trunking plans – sheets 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8     East Tuddenham Parish
Hockering     A length of 2283 metres of the A47 Trunk Road from point A 303
metres north west of the centreline of the existing Mattishall Lane / existing
A47 junction to point B. The de-trunking plans – sheets 9, 11, 12 & 13
Honingham Parish A length of 1700 metres of the A47 Trunk Road from point C
174 metres south east of the centreline of the Berrys Lane / existing A47
junction, to point D. The de-trunking plans – sheet 13 Honingham Parish A
length of 948 metres of the A47 Trunk Road from point E 70 metres west of the
access to St Andrew’s Church, to point F (sheet 14). The de-trunking plans –
sheet 15     Easton Parish       Honingham Parish     A length of 708 metres
of the A47 Trunk Road from point G 683 metres west of the centrepoint of the
existing A47 / Church Lane roundabout, to point H (sheet 16). The de-trunking
plans – sheet 16 Easton Parish A length of 39 metres of the A47 Trunk Road
from point I 23 metres north of the centrepoint of the existing A47 / Church
Lane roundabout, to point J.

##### TRAFFIC REGULATION MEASURES (CLEARWAYS AND PROHIBITIONS)

          (1)       Parish         (2)         Road name, number and length
(3)       Measures       The traffic regulation plans – sheets 1 to 16
East Tuddenham Parish        Hockering Parish       Honingham Parish
Easton Parish         A47 Trunk Road eastbound from point A to point B (sheet
16) a distance of 8470 metres.     Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders).
East Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish       Honingham Parish
Easton Parish     A47 Trunk Road westbound from point C to point D (sheet 16)
a distance of 8470 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). The
traffic regulation plans – sheet 5 Hockering Parish Layby on the A47 westbound
reference point AU, 142 metres east of Mill Lane Proposed waiting time
restriction. Hockering Parish Layby on the A47 eastbound reference point AV,
298 metres east of Mill Lane Proposed waiting time restriction. The traffic
regulation plans – sheet 8     East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish
A47 Trunk Road eastbound diverge slip road from point J to point K (sheet 10)
a distance of 708 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders).     East
Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish     A47 Trunk Road westbound merge
slip road from point T to point U (sheet 9) a distance of 541 metres. Clearway
(including verges, hardshoulders). The traffic regulation plans – sheet 9
East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish     A47 Trunk Road westbound
diverge from point V to point W (sheet 11) a distance of 536 metres. Clearway
(including verges, hardshoulders). The traffic regulation plans – sheet 10
East Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish     A47 Trunk Road eastbound
merge from point P to point Q (sheet 11) a distance of 514 metres. Clearway
(including verges, hardshoulders). The traffic regulation plans – sheet 13
Honingham Parish A47 Trunk Road eastbound diverge slip road from point AH to
point AI (sheet 14) a distance of 617 metres. Clearway (including verges,
hardshoulders). Honingham Parish A47 Trunk Road westbound merge slip road from
point AN to point AO (sheet 14) a distance of 663 metres. Clearway (including
verges, hardshoulders). The traffic regulation plans – sheet 14 Honingham
Parish A47 Trunk Road eastbound merge from point AL to point AM (sheet 15) a
distance of 595 metres. Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). The
traffic regulation plans – sheet 15 Honingham Parish A47 Trunk Road westbound
diverge from point AR to point AQ (sheet 14) a distance of 593 metres.
Clearway (including verges, hardshoulders). Honingham Parish Layby on the A47
eastbound reference point AP, 125 metres west of the Easton footbridge
Proposed waiting time restriction.

Articles 16 and 27

##### PERMANENT STOPPING UP OF HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS & PROVISION OF NEW HIGHWAYS AND PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS

  In relating this Schedule to the rights of way and access plans, the
provisions described in this Schedule are shown on the rights of way and
access plans in the following manner—     a     Existing highways are to be
stopped up, as described in column (2) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule, are
shown by blue diagonal hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and
access plans) over the extent of the area to be stopped up, which is described
in column (3) of Parts 1 and 2 of this Schedule and given a reference label in
a square box (a capital A followed by a number).         b     New highways
which are to be substituted for a highway to be stopped up (or which are
otherwise to be provided), as are included in column (4) of Part 2 of this
Schedule, are shown by—     i     red honeycomb-hatching (for motorways and
trunk roads),         ii     yellow cross-hatching (for other classified roads
and highways),         iii     green vertical hatching (for cycle tracks and
restricted byways),         iv     a green dashed line (for public rights of
way),       (as shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) and
are given a reference label in a square (D for new highway and CF for new
public rights of way and cycle tracks to be substituted or provided) and will
be a road unless the word ‘footpath’, ‘bridleway’, ‘footway’ or ‘cycle track’
appears beneath its reference letter in column (4) of Part 2 of this Schedule.
c     Private means of access to be stopped up, as described in column (2) of
Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, are shown by solid lime green shading (as
shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) over the extent of
stopping up described in column (3) of Parts 3 and 4 of this Schedule, and are
given a reference label in a square (a capital B followed by a number).
d     New private means of access to be substituted for a private means of
access to be stopped up (or which are otherwise to be provided), as are
included in column (4) of Part 3 of this Schedule, are shown by red diagonal
hatching (as shown in the key on the rights of way and access plans) and are
given a reference label in a square (a capital C followed by a number).

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up       The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 2     Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference
A36 to A37       Hockering FP12         Reference A36 to A37       public
footpath to be stopped up from a point A36 from the existing A47 in a southern
direction to a point A37, a distance of 16m.         Norfolk County Council
North Tuddenham Parish         Reference A42 to A43       Part of a cycle
track         Reference A42 to A43       From point A42 located on the
existing Lyng Road in a south easterly direction to point A43 a distance of 28
metres.         Norfolk County Council       North Tuddenham Parish
Reference A44 to A45       Part of a cycle track         Reference A44 to A45
From point A44 located 52 metres west of the existing Lyng Road in a south
easterly direction to point A45 a distance of 15 metres.         Norfolk
County Council       North Tuddenham Parish         Reference A46 to A47
Part of a cycle track         Reference A46 to A47       From point A46
located 37 metres north of the existing A47 in a southerly direction to point
A47 a distance of 11 metres.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 6
Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A10 to A11
Part of Hockering FP7         Reference A10 to A11       Public footpath to be
stopped up from point A10, 79 metres south of the access to Newgate House in a
southern direction to point A11, a distance of 34 metres.         Norfolk
County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A11 to A12       Part
of Hockering FP7         Reference A11 to A12       Public footpath to be
stopped up from point A11 in a westerly direction a distance of 95 metres to
point A12.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 7     Norfolk County
Council       East Tuddenham Parish     Reference A15 to A16 on Church Lane
Reference A15 to A16 Highway to be stopped up from point A15, at junction on
existing A47 in a southern direction 125 metres to point A16. The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 9     Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham
Parish     Reference A21 to A23 on Berry’s Lane     Reference A21 to A23
Highway to be stopped up from point A21, at junction connecting Berrys Lane to
the existing A47 in a southern direction to point A23, a distance of 157
metres.

##### HIGHWAYS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW HIGHWAYS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Highway to be stopped up
(3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New highway to be
substituted/provided       The rights of way and access plans – sheet 1
Norfolk County Council       North Tuddenham Parish     - -     Reference D1
to D2       A new trunk road from D1 to D2 in an eastern direction for 8458
metres. D1 is 227 metres from Fox Lane diverge. D2 is 164 metres from existing
A47 roundabout for Easton.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2
Norfolk County Council       North Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish
Reference A1 to A2       Part of the B1147 and cycle track connection
Reference A1 to A2       From point A1 784 metres east of the Fox Lane bridge
over the Existing A47 to point A2, 854 metres east Fox Lane bridge over the
Existing A47, a distance of 134 metres         Reference D5 to D6       To be
substituted by a length of new highway from point D5 860 metres from Fox Lane
bridge over the Existing A47 in a southerly direction to point D6, 874 metres
from Fox Lane bridge over the Existing A47, for 168 metres.         Norfolk
County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A3 to A4       Part of
the existing A47 and cycle track         Reference A3 to A4       From point
A3 north west of the junction where Low Road meets the existing A47 in an
easterly direction to point A4 where Low Road meets the existing A47, a
distance of 245 metres.         Reference D3 to A4       To be substituted by
a new highway from point D3, 493 metres east of the Fox Lane bridge over the
existing A47 to point A4 where Low Road meets the existing A47, a distance of
1052 metres.         Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish
Reference A4 to A5       Part of the existing A47         Reference A4 to A5
From point A4 located where Low Road meets the existing A47 to point A5, a
distance of 348 metres         Reference D7 to D8       To be substituted by a
new highway from point D7 located 160 metres north west of the junction where
Mattishall Lane meets the Existing A47 in a south westerly direction to point
D8 located 24 metres north east of junction where unnamed road meets
Mattishall Lane, a distance of 470 metres.         Norfolk County Council
North Tuddenham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1.
The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4     Norfolk County Council
North Tuddenham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1.
Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A3 to A4
See sheet 2         Reference D3 to A4       See sheet 2.         Norfolk
County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A4 to A5       See
sheet 2         Reference D7 to D8       See sheet 2.         Norfolk County
Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A6 to A7       Part of
Mattishall Lane         Reference A6 to A7       From point A6 located on
Mattishall Lane 88 metres south east of where the lane meets the Existing A47
to point A7 located 250 metres south east of where the lane meets the Existing
A47, a distance of 161 metres.         Reference D7 to D8       To be
substituted by a new highway from point D7 located 160 metres north west of
the junction where Mattishall Lane meets the Existing A47 in a south westerly
direction to point D8 located 24 metres north east of junction where unnamed
road meets Mattishall Lane, a distance of 470 metres.         Norfolk County
Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A8 to A9       Part of
Mattishall Lane         Reference A8 to A9       From point A8 located on
Mattishall Lane 385 metres south west where the lane meets the Existing A47 to
point A9 located 513 metres south west of where the lane meets the Existing
A47, a distance of 133 metres.         Reference D7 to D8       To be
substituted by a new highway from point D7 located 160 metres north west of
the junction where Mattishall Lane meets the Existing A47 in a south westerly
direction to point D8 located 24 metres north east of junction where unnamed
road meets Mattishall Lane, a distance of 470 metres.     The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 5     Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish
- -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1     The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 6     Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish     - -
Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1         Norfolk County Council
Hockering Parish         Reference A12 to A13       Part of Hockering FP8
Reference A12 to A13       From point A12 located 1043 metres west of where
Church Lane meets the Existing A47 to point A13 located 1064 metres west of
where Church Lane meets the Existing A47, a distance of 54 metres.
Reference A13 to A14       To be substituted by a new footpath from point A13
located 1064 metres west of where Church Lane meets the Existing A47 in an
easterly direction to point A14 located 1044 metres west of where Church Lane
meets the Existing A47, a distance of 55 metres.         Norfolk County
Council       Hockering Parish         Reference A12 to A14       Part of
Hockering FP7         Reference A12 to A14       From point A12 located 1043
metres west of where Church Lane meets the Existing A47 to point A14 located
1044 metres west of where Church Lane meets the Existing A47, a distance of 16
metres.         Reference A13 to A14       To be substituted by a new footpath
from point A13 located 1064 metres west of where Church Lane meets the
Existing A47 in an easterly direction to point A14 located 1044 metres west of
where Church Lane meets the Existing A47, a distance of 24 metres.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 7     Norfolk County Council
Hockering Parish       East Tuddenham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2
See sheet 1     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 8     Norfolk
County Council       East Tuddenham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2
See sheet 1         Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham Parish
Reference A17 to A18       See sheet 9         References D9 to D10, D11 to
D12, D15 to D16, D17 to D18, D19 to D20, D21 to D22       See sheet 9     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 9     Norfolk County Council       East
Tuddenham Parish       Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2
See sheet 1         Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish       East
Tuddenham Parish         Reference A17 to A18       Part of the existing A47
Reference A17 to A18.       From point A17 160 metres east of the Sandy
Lane/A47 junction in a south easterly direction to a point A18, a distance of
1063 metres.         References D9 to D10, D11 to D12, D15 to D16, D17 to D18,
D19 to D20 and D21 to D22       To be substituted by the following lengths of
new highway:           From point D9 173 metres east of the Sandy Lane/A47
junction to point D10 on the northern roundabout of Wood Lane junction, a
distance of 752 metres           From point D11 282 metres east of the Sandy
Lane/A47 junction to point D12 on the southern roundabout of Wood Lane
junction, a distance of 644 metres           From point D15 on the northern
roundabout of Wood Lane junction in a southerly direction to point D16 on the
southern roundabout, a distance of 438 metres           From point D17 on the
northern roundabout of Wood Lane junction in an easterly direction to point
D18, a distance of 610 metres           From a point D19 on the southern
roundabout of Wood Lane junction in an easterly direction to point D20, a
distance of 669 metres           From a point D21 on the southern roundabout
of Wood Lane junction in a south easterly direction to point D22 on Honingham
roundabout, a distance of 1663 metres.             Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish       East Tuddenham Parish         Reference A19 to A20
See sheet 10         Reference A19 to A20       See sheet 10         Reference
D13 to D14 and D14 to D4       See sheet 10         Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish       East Tuddenham Parish         Reference A21 to A22
Part of Berrys Lane         Reference A21 to A22       From a point A21 where
Berrys Lane joins the existing A47 in a south easterly direction to point A22,
a distance of 363 metres.         Reference D21 to D22 and D23 to D24       To
be substituted by the following lengths of new highway:           From a point
D21 on the southern roundabout of Wood Lane junction in a south easterly
direction to point D22 on Honingham roundabout, a distance of 1663 metres
From a point D23 314 metres east of the southern roundabout of Wood Lane
junction in a southerly direction to point D24 on Dereham Road, a distance of
241 metres.             Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish
East Tuddenham Parish         Reference A40 to A41       Honingham FP3
Reference A40 to A41       From point A40 on Dereham Road in a westerly
direction to a point A41, a distance of 300 metres.     To be substituted by a
new bridleway between point CF25 on Dereham Road 219 metres south of the
existing A47 in a westerly direction to point CF26, a distance of 284 metres.
The rights of way and access plans – sheet 10     Norfolk County Council
East Tuddenham Parish         Reference A19 to A20       Part of Wood Lane
B1535         Reference A19 to A20       From a point A19 where Wood Lane
meets the A47 in a northerly direction to a point A20, a distance of 528
metres.         Reference D13 to D14 and D14 to D4       To be substituted by
the following lengths of new highway:           From point D13 534 metres
north of the existing A47 in a southerly direction to point D14, a distance of
301 metres           From a point D14 228 metres north of the existing A47 in
an easterly direction to a point D4 on the northern roundabout of Wood Lane
junction, a distance of 97 metres.             Norfolk County Council
East Tuddenham Parish         Reference A21 to A22       See sheet 9
References D21 to D22, D23 to D24       See sheet 9         Norfolk County
Council       Honingham Parish         Reference A38 to A39       Part of
Honingham RB1     Reference A38 to A39 285 metres north east of centrepoint of
the northern roundabout of Wood Lane junction, to A39 11m south of the
existing A47 a distance of 467 metres.     Reference A38 to CF2a       To be
substituted by a new restricted byway from point A38 on the existing Honingham
RB1 in a westerly direction to point CF2a 117 metres north east of the
northern roundabout of Wood Lane junction, a distance of 242 metres.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 11     Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 12     Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 13     Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1
Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish     Reference A24 to A25 Part of
the existing A47 Reference A24 to A25 From point A24 205m metres west of the
existing property St Andrew’s Church in an eastern direction of 188m to point
A25.     References D25 to D26, D27 to D28, D41 to D42 and D33 to D34       To
be substituted by the following lengths of new highway:           From a point
D25 on Honingham roundabout in an easterly direction to point D26 on the
southern roundabout of Norwich Road junction, a distance of 1030 metres
From a point D27 68 metres west of St Andrew’s Church in an easterly direction
to a point D28 on Taverham Road, a distance of 460 metres           From a
point D41 south of Church House Farm in a south easterly direction to D42 on
the northern roundabout of Norwich Road junction, a distance of 248 metres
From point D33 on the northern roundabout of Norwich Road junction in a
southerly direction to point D34 on the southern roundabout, a distance of 314
metres.         The rights of way and access plans – sheet 14     Norfolk
County Council       Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See
sheet 1         Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish
Reference A27 to A28       Part of Blind Lane     Reference A27 to A28
References D25 to D26, D33 to D34 and D41 to D42       To be substituted by
the following lengths of new highway:           From a point D25 on Honingham
roundabout in an easterly direction to point D26 on the southern roundabout of
Norwich Road junction, a distance of 1030 metres           From point D33 on
the northern roundabout of Norwich Road junction in a southerly direction to
point D34 on the southern roundabout, a distance of 314 metres           From
a point D41 south of Church House Farm in a south easterly direction to D42 on
the northern roundabout of Norwich Road junction, a distance of 248 metres.
Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish         Reference A26 to A29
Part of the existing A47         Reference A26 to A29.       From point A26
104 metres south of the existing property access to Church House Farm in an
eastern direction for 702 metres to point A29.         References D29 to D30,
D31 to D32, D33 to D34, D35 to D36 and D37 to D38       To be substituted by
the following lengths of new highway:           From point D29 on the new
mainline dual carriageway 122 metres west of St Andrew’s Church in an easterly
direction to point D30 on the new northern roundabout of Norwich Road
junction, a distance of 707 metres.           From point D31 on the new
mainline dual carriageway 143 metres west of St Andrew’s Church in an easterly
direction to point D32 on the new southern roundabout of Norwich Road
junction, a distance of 763 metres.           From point D33 on the northern
roundabout of Norwich Road junction in a southerly direction to point D34 on
the southern roundabout, a distance of 314 metres           From point D35 on
the new northern roundabout of Norwich Road junction in an easterly direction
to point D36 on the new mainline dual carriageway, a distance of 712 metres
From point D37 on the new southern roundabout of Norwich Road junction in an
easterly direction to point D38 on the new mainline dual carriageway, a
distance of 619 metres.         The rights of way and access plans – sheet 15
Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish       Honingham Parish
Reference A26 to A29       See sheet 14         References D29 to D30, D31 to
D32, D33 to D34, D35 to D36, D37 to D38       See sheet 14     The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 15     Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish
Honingham Parish     - -     Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1
Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish       Honingham Parish
Reference A30 to A31       Part of the existing A47         Reference A30 to
A31       From point A30 210 metres west of the existing Easton roundabout in
an easterly direction to point A31, a distance of 290 metres.
References D2 to D36, D2, D2 to D38 and D39 to D40       To be substituted by
the following lengths of new highway:           The new mainline dual
carriageway between D36 and D2 (eastbound carriageway) and between D2 and D38
(westbound carriageway), a distance of 1290 metres           From a point D39
on the southern dumbbell roundabout of Norwich Road junction in an easterly
direction to a point D40 85 metres south of the Church Lane junction on
Dereham Road, a distance of 1265 metres.         The rights of way and access
plans – sheet 16     Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish     - -
Reference D1 to D2       See sheet 1         Norfolk County Council
Easton Parish       Honingham Parish         Reference A30 to A31       See
sheet 15         References D2 to D36, D2, D2 to D38 and D39 to D40       See
sheet 15         Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish       Honingham
Parish     Reference A32 to A33 Church Lane     Reference A32 to A33
From point A32 at the junction of Church Lane and Ringland Lane in a south
westerly direction to point A33 on the Easton roundabout, a distance of 315
metres.         Reference CF20 to CF24       To be substituted by a new cycle
track from the new Easton overbridge at point CF24 in a north easterly
direction to point CF20 on Ringland Lane, a distance of 332 metres.
Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish       Honingham Parish
Reference A34 to A35       Part of Dereham Road         Reference A34 to A35
From point A34 on the Easton roundabout in a southerly direction to point A35,
a distance of 45 metres.         Reference D39 to D40       From a point D39
on the southern dumbbell roundabout of Norwich Road junction in an easterly
direction to a point D40 85 metres south of the Church Lane junction on
Dereham Road, a distance of 1265 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH A SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED AND NEW PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS WHICH ARE OTHERWISE TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped         (3)         Extent of stopping up         (4)         New
private means of access to be substitutes or provided       The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 1     Norfolk County Council       North Tuddenham
Parish     Reference B1 to B2     Reference B1 to B2       A private access
track from length from the existing A47 to a point 313 metres south.
Reference C1 to C2.       To be substituted by a new private access road which
connects into Fox Lane from a point 498 metres west of the current access.
The rights of way and access plans – sheet 2     Norfolk County Council
North Tuddenham Parish       Hockering Parish         Reference C3 to C4.
A new private access road to provide access to a drainage basin from Lyng Road
between C3 and C4.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 4
Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference C5 to C6
A new private means of access to agricultural land from the existing A47 at
the junction with Low Road.         Norfolk County Council       Hockering
Parish         Reference C7 to C8       A new private means of access to
drainage basin from the proposed mainline dual carriageway (D1 to D2), 108
metres north west of the Mattishall Lane underpass.         Norfolk County
Council       Hockering Parish         Reference C9 to C10       A new private
means of access to agricultural land from the existing Mattishall Lane, 16
metres north east of point A6.         Norfolk County Council       Hockering
Parish         Reference B3 to B4       Mill Lane         Reference B3 to B4
A length from a point 73 metres south of the existing A47 southwards to the
private timber yard.         Reference C11 to C12       To be substituted by a
new private access road from a point C11 430 metres north west of the current
access on Mattishall Lane in an easterly direction for a distance of 460
metres to point C12.     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 5
Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference B3 to B4
See sheet 4         Reference C11 to C12       See sheet 4         Norfolk
County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference C13 to C14       A new
private means of access to a drainage basin from the new private access track
(Reference C11 to C12).     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 6
Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish         Reference C15 to C16
A new private means of access to a drainage basin from the new mainline dual
carriageway (Reference D1 to D2).     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 7     Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham Parish
Reference B5 to B6       private access road from existing A47
Reference B5 to B6       A point B6 adjacent to the existing A47 just West of
the Berrys Lane junction extending 189 metres west to B5.         Reference
C17 to C18       To be substituted by a new private means of access being
provided from Church Lane 644 metres west of the current access point.
Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham Parish         Reference C19 to
C20       A new private means of access to a drainage basin from a new private
access track (Reference C17 to C18).     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 8     Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham Parish
Reference B5 to B6       See sheet 7         Reference C17 to C18       See
sheet 7     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 9     Norfolk County
Council       Hockering Parish         Reference C23 to C24       A new
private means of access to a drainage basin from point C23 on the existing A47
352 metres east of the junction of Berrys Lane with existing A47.     The
rights of way and access plans – sheet 11     Norfolk County Council
Honingham Parish         Reference B9 to B10       private access road from
existing A47 leading to Hall Farm         Reference B9 to B10       extending
from the existing A47 for 184 metres north.         Reference C25 to C26
To be substituted by a new private access track being provided from point C25
on the existing (de-trunked) A47 348 metres west of the current access in a
northerly direction and then in an easterly direction to point C26 for a
distance of 530 metres.         Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish
Reference C27 to C28       A new private means of access to a drainage basin
from a new private access track from the existing A47 to Hall Farm (C25 to
C26).     The rights of way and access plans – sheet 12     Norfolk County
Council       Honingham Parish         Reference C29 to C30       A new
private means of access to a drainage basin from the new dual carriageway
between point C29 211 metres north west of the River Tud crossing to point C30
a distance of 17 metres.         Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish
Reference C31 to C32       A new private means of access to a drainage basin
from the de-trunked A47 between point C31 273 metres north west from the
centre of the existing roundabout with Norwich Road and the existing A47 to
point C32 a distance of 10 metres.     The rights of way and access plans –
sheet 13     Norfolk County Council       Honingham Parish         Reference
C33 to C34       A new private means of access to the car park for St Andrew’s
Church from the de-trunked A47 from point C33 60 metres west of the entrance
to St Andrew’s Church to point C34 a distance of 9 metres.     The rights of
way and access plans – sheet 14     Norfolk County Council       Honingham
Parish         Reference C35 to C36       A new private means of access to a
drainage basin from point C35 on Taverham Road 55 metres south of the access
to Church House Farm to point C36 a distance of 8 metres.         Norfolk
County Council       Honingham Parish         Reference C37 and C38       A
new private means of access to agricultural land and construction compounds to
the north of the proposed mainline dual carriageway from the realigned
Taverham Road from point C37 85 metres east of the junction of Blind Lane with
the existing A47 to point C38, a distance of 74 metres.     The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 16     Norfolk County Council       Easton Parish
Reference C21 to C22       A new private means of access to agricultural land
and construction compounds to the north of the proposed mainline dual
carriageway from points C21 at the junction of Church Lane and Ringland Lane
to point C22, a distance of 89 metres.

##### PRIVATE MEANS OF ACCESS TO BE STOPPED UP FOR WHICH NO SUBSTITUTE IS TO BE PROVIDED

          (1)       Area         (2)         Private means of access to be
stopped up         (3)         Extent of stopping up       The rights of way
and access plans – sheet 6     Norfolk County Council       Hockering Parish
Reference B11 to B12       Private access road to Newgate House
Reference B11 to B12       A point B11 extending south towards Newgate House
to point B12, a distance of 42 metres.     The rights of way and access plans
– sheet 9     Norfolk County Council       East Tuddenham Parish
Reference B7 to B8       private access road off existing A47
Reference B7 to B8       A point extending from the existing A47 132 metres
south.

  LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC. MAY BE ACQUIRED

Article 26

          (1)         Plot reference number shown on land plans         (2)
Purpose for which rights and restrictive covenants over land may be acquired
(3)         Relevant part of the authorised development       Land Plans –
Sheet No. 1 1/2f     Removal of cables and apparatus for electronic
communications and associated infrastructure.       Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 1, 2
and 73 Land Plans – Sheet No. 2 2/4b Right to pass and repass with or without
plant and vehicles and to access land for ecological mitigation commitments
Work No. 56 and ecological mitigation Land Plans – Sheet No. 3 3/1a Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and to access land for
ecological mitigation commitments Work No. 56 and ecological mitigation 3/2b
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and to access land
for ecological mitigation commitments Work No. 56 and ecological mitigation
3/3b Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and to access
land for ecological mitigation commitments Work No. 56 and ecological
mitigation 3/4a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and to access land for ecological mitigation commitments Work No. 56 and
ecological mitigation 3/5a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and to access land for ecological mitigation commitments Work No. 56
and ecological mitigation 3/6a Right to pass and repass with or without plant
and vehicles and to access land for ecological mitigation commitments Work No.
56 and ecological mitigation Land Plans – Sheet No. 4 4/1g     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 74 4/1j     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water
pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications
apparatus including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 74 Land Plans – Sheet No. 5 5/4c     Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications
apparatus including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 1 and 75 5/7c     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 1 and 75 5/9c     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 1 and 76 5/9e     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including
overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 1 and 75 Land Plans – Sheet No. 6 6/4e
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and to access
adjoining parcels permanently acquired or already owned by the undertaker Work
No. 1, 14 and 61 6/6a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and to access adjoining parcels permanently
acquired or already owned by the undertaker       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 1 and 77 6/10c     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 1 and 78 Land Plans – Sheet No. 7 7/1n     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers.       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and including access to highways.       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult.     Work No. 81
7/6b     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables
together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 1 and 79 7/6d
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipeline and associated infrastructure       Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 1
and 80 7/9a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Place, divert,
alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 15, 16 and 80 7/10a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus
including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses
to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 81 Land Plans – Sheet No. 8
8/1c     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult     Work No. 81 8/3b     Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications
apparatus including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 81 8/3f     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Install, retain, use,
monitor, alter, maintain and remove ducts, cables and apparatus for services
and utilities       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 82 and 83 8/4c     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 15,
16 and 80 8/4d     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult     Work No. 15, 16 and 80 Land Plans – Sheet No. 9 9/1d     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a
gas main and associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines and
associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus
including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses
to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 84 9/1h     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main
and associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a water pipeline and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 84 9/1j     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main
and associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a water pipeline and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult     Work No. 84 9/1l     Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 22, 32, 63 and 84 9/1m     Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 19, 22, 63 and 84 9/6b     Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 28 and 84 Land Plans – Sheet No. 10 10/5b     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove a gas main
and associated infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove water pipelines and associated
infrastructure       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor
and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult     Work No. 20, 23, 26, 26a, 84 and 98 Land Plans – Sheet No. 11
11/1b     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more
difficult     Work No. 1, 33, 87 and 97 11/1c     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 1 and 88 11/1g Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and to access land for ecological
mitigation commitments Ecological mitigation Land Plans – Sheet No. 12 12/4c
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 89 Land Plans – Sheet No. 13 13/1d
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 65, 66 and 89 13/1e     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 65, 66 and 89 13/1(i)     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 65, 66 and 89 Land Plans – Sheet No. 14
14/4g     Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass with or
without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of land,
highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed or made materially
more difficult     Work No. 1, 48, 51, 92, 94, and 99 Land Plans – Sheet No.
15 15/1a     Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass with or
without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of land,
highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed
or made materially more difficult     Work No. 1, 48, 51, 92, 94, and 99 15/3c
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 91 15/4b     Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass
with or without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of
land, highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export
cables       Works in connection with the overhead 132kV electricity line
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead electronic
communications apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed
or made materially more difficult     Work No. 1, 48, 51, 69, 70, 92, 93, 94
and 99 15/4e     Construct, install, retain use, maintain, inspect, alter,
remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve cabling, ducts,
jointing bays, telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus (including but
not limited to access chambers, manholes, and marker posts) for Ørsted’s
Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables and any other works as
necessary together with the right to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which
may obstruct or interfere with the said cables, telecommunications and other
ancillary apparatus       Right to continuous vertical and lateral support for
Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export
cables       Right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding
and other ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and
replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping and the right to pass and repass on
foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in
connection with the implementation and maintenance of landscaping and
ecological mitigation or enhancement works in connection with Ørsted’s
Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export       cables
Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass with or without plant,
machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of land, highways and
Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables       Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus, landscaping, ecological mitigation or enhancement works from
excavation, interference or damage and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus, landscaping, ecological mitigation or enhancement works being
obstructed or made materially more difficult     Work No. 72, 94 and 99 15/5b
Construct, install, retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish,
reconstruct, replace, protect and improve       cabling, ducts, jointing bays,
telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus (including but not limited to
access chambers, manholes and marker posts) for Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three
Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export       cables and any other works as
necessary together with the right to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which
may obstruct or interfere with the said cables, telecommunications and other
ancillary apparatus       Right to continuous vertical and lateral support for
Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export
cables       Right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding
and other ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and
replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping and the right to pass and repass on
foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in
connection with the implementation and maintenance of landscaping and
ecological mitigation or enhancement works in connection with Ørsted’s
Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export cables Right to pass
and repass with or without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining
parcels of land, highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s
onshore export cables       Works in connection with the overhead 132kV
electricity line       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including
overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove water pipelines and associated infrastructure       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and
repass with or without plant, machinery and vehicles to access adjoining
parcels of       land, highways and work area       for Ørsted’s Hornsea Three
Offshore Windfarm’s onshore       export cables       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus, landscaping, ecological
mitigation or enhancement works from excavation, interference or damage and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus, landscaping, ecological mitigation
or enhancement works being obstructed or made materially more difficult
Work No. 50, 92, 93 and 94 15/6a     Right to lay temporary surfaces and to
pass and repass with or without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access
adjoining parcels of land, highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore
Windfarm’s onshore export cables       Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including
overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed or made materially
more difficult     Work No. 71, 94, and 95 15/7a     Construct, install,
retain, use, maintain, inspect, alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct,
replace, protect and improve       cabling, ducts, jointing bays,
telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus (including but not limited to
access chambers, manholes and marker posts) for Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three
Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export       cables and any other works as
necessary together with the right to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which
may obstruct or interfere with the said cables, telecommunications and other
ancillary apparatus       Right to continuous vertical and lateral support for
Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export
cables       Right to install, execute, implement, retain, repair, improve,
renew, remove, relocate and plant trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding
and other ecological measures together with the right to maintain, inspect and
replant such trees, shrubs and landscaping and the right to pass and repass on
foot, with or without vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in
connection with the implementation and maintenance of landscaping and
ecological mitigation or enhancement works in connection with Ørsted’s
Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export cables Right to pass
and repass with or without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining
parcels of land, highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s
onshore export cables       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and
repass with or without plant, machinery and vehicles to access adjoining
parcels of       land, highways and work area for Ørsted’s Hornsea Three
Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus, landscaping, ecological
mitigation or enhancement works from excavation, interference or damage and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus, landscaping, ecological mitigation
or enhancement works being obstructed or made materially more difficult
Work No. 50, 94 and 95 15/8a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 95 15/9a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 50 and 95 15/10a     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain,
use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus
including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses
to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 91 15/11a     Works in
connection with the overhead 132kV electricity line       Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic
communications apparatus including overhead electronic communications
apparatus together with accesses to highways and associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place, divert, alter,
remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways,
pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus,
together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and
including access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for
protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to
the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 93
Land Plans – Sheet No. 16 16/1a     Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity cables including
overhead electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass with or without plant,
machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of land, highways and
Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables       Right
to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed or made materially
more difficult     Work No. 72, 94, and 95 16/2a     Divert, install,
underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electricity
cables including overhead electricity cables together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and repass with or
without plant, machinery, and vehicles to access adjoining parcels of land,
highways and Ørsted’s Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables
Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers,
drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic
communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including
marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or
without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation
and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being obstructed or made
materially more difficult     Work No. 51, 52, 53, 71, 94, and 95 16/5a
Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and
remove electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 50 and 95 16/6c     Divert,
install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove
electricity cables including overhead electricity cables together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus
including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights
and electronic communications apparatus, together with associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to
pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including access to
highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed
apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus
being made materially more difficult     Work No. 50 and 95 Land Plans – Sheet
No. 18 18/1b     Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use, monitor and
maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including overhead
electronic communications apparatus electricity cables including overhead
electricity cables together with accesses to highways and associated
infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers       Place,
divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains,
soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and electronic communications
apparatus, together with associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass with or without plant and
vehicles and including access to highways       To include restrictive
covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from excavation and to
prevent access to the installed apparatus being made materially more difficult
Work No. 91 18/4a Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles
and to access land for ecological mitigation commitments Ecological mitigation
18/4b Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and to
access land for ecological mitigation commitments Ecological mitigation Land
Plans – Sheet No. 19 19/1a     Works in connection with the overhead 132kV
electricity line       Divert, install, underground, alter, retain, use,
monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications apparatus including
overhead electronic communications apparatus together with accesses to
highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection
chambers       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult     Work No. 91 and 93 19/2a     Works in connection
with the overhead 132kV electricity line       Divert, install, underground,
alter, retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications
apparatus including overhead electronic communications apparatus together with
accesses to highways and associated infrastructure including marker posts and
inspection chambers.       Construct, install, retain, use, maintain, inspect,
alter, remove, refurbish, reconstruct, replace, protect and improve
cabling, ducts, jointing bays, telecommunications and other ancillary
apparatus (including but not limited to access chambers, manholes and marker
posts) for Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore
export       cables and any other works as necessary together with the right
to fell, trim or lop trees and bushes which may obstruct or interfere with the
said cables, telecommunications and other ancillary apparatus       Right to
continuous vertical and lateral support for Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three
Offshore       Windfarm’s onshore export       cables       Right to install,
execute, implement, retain, repair, improve, renew, remove, relocate and plant
trees, woodlands, shrubs, hedgerows, seeding and other ecological measures
together with the right to maintain, inspect and replant such trees, shrubs
and landscaping and the right to pass and repass on foot, with or without
vehicles, plant and machinery for all purposes in connection with the
implementation and maintenance of landscaping and ecological mitigation or
enhancement works in connection with Ørsted’s       Hornsea Three Offshore
Windfarm’s onshore export       cables Divert, install, underground, alter,
retain, use, monitor and maintain and remove electronic communications cables,
apparatus and associated infrastructure       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways       Right to lay temporary surfaces and to pass and
repass with or without plant, machinery and vehicles to access Ørsted’s
Hornsea Three Offshore Windfarm’s onshore export cables       To include
restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus, landscaping,
ecological mitigation or enhancement works from excavation, interference or
damage and to prevent access to the installed apparatus, landscaping,
ecological mitigation or enhancement works being obstructed or made materially
more difficult     Work No. 91, 93 and 94 19/3a     Works in connection with
the overhead 132kV electricity line       Place, divert, alter, remove or
maintain apparatus including mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables,
conduits, lights and electronic communications apparatus, together with
associated infrastructure including marker posts and inspection chambers
Right to pass and repass with or without plant and vehicles and including
access to highways       To include restrictive covenants for protecting the
installed apparatus from excavation and to prevent access to the installed
apparatus being made materially more difficult     Work No. 93 Land Plans –
Sheet No. 20 20/1a     Works in connection with the overhead 132kV electricity
line.       Place, divert, alter, remove or maintain apparatus including
mains, sewers, drains, soakaways, pipes, cables, conduits, lights and
electronic communications apparatus, together with associated infrastructure
including marker posts and inspection chambers.       Right to pass and repass
with or without plant and vehicles and including access to highways.       To
include restrictive covenants for protecting the installed apparatus from
excavation and to prevent access to the installed apparatus being made
materially more difficult.     Work No. 93

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASE ENACTMENTS FOR CREATION
OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 26

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right or imposition of a restrictive
covenant as they apply in respect of compensation on the compulsory purchase
of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the modification set out in sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

For section 5(A) (5A) (relevant valuation date) of the 1961 Act substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purposes of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 6 to the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton
Development Consent Order 2022 (“ the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Order ”));

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 6 to the A47 North Tuddenham to Easton Order) to acquire an
interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enter on and take possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right

.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken from” substitute  “a right or restrictive
covenant over land is purchased from or imposed on” ; and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable or the restrictive covenant enforceable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, as applied by section 125 (application of compulsory
acquisition provisions) of the 2008 Act (and modified by article 29
(modification of Part 1 of the 1965 Act)) to the acquisition of land under
article 23 (compulsory acquisition of land), applies to the compulsory
acquisition of a right by the creation of a new right, or to the imposition of
a restrictive covenant under article 26(1) (compulsory acquisition of rights
and imposition of restrictive covenants)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5; and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in the appropriate contexts, to be
read (according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring
to, or as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or the restrictive covenant imposed or
to be imposed; or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is or is to be exercisable, or the restriction
is or is to be enforceable.

5.3

For Section 7 (measure of compensation in case of severance) of the 1965 Act
substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard must be had not only to the extent (if any) to which the value of
the land over which the right is to be acquired or the restrictive covenant is
to be imposed is depreciated by the acquisition of the right or the imposition
of the restrictive covenant but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by
the owner of the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner,
or injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the posers
conferred by this or the special Act.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land), that is to say—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure by owners to convey);

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity);

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners); and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified so as to secure that, as against persons with interests in the
land which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to
be compulsorily acquired or the restrictive covenant which is to be imposed is
vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11 (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure that,
where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of any
right or restrictive covenant, as well as the notice of entry required by
subsection (1) of that section (as it applies to compulsory acquisition under
article 23), it has power, exercisable in equivalent circumstances and subject
to equivalent conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right or
enforcing that restrictive covenant; and sections 11A  (powers of entry:
further notices of entry). 11B  (counter-notice requiring possession to be
taken on specified dated, 12  (unauthorised entry), and 13 (refusal to give
possession to acquiring authority) of the 1965 Act are modified
correspondingly.

5.6

Section 20 (tenants at will, etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such an interest as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right or the enforcement of the restrictive
covenant in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act as modified by
article 29(4) is also modified so as to enable the acquiring authority in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A of the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND NOT IN NOTICE TO TREAT

############# Introduction

5.8.1

5.8.1.1

This Schedule applies where an undertaker serves a notice to treat in respect
of a right over, or a restrictive covenant affecting, the whole or part of a
house, building or factory and has not executed a general vesting declaration
under section 4 of the Compulsory Purchase (Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 as
applied by article 30 (application of the 1981 Act) of the A47 North Tuddenham
to Easton Development Consent Order 2022 in respect of the land to which the
notice to treat relates.

5.8.1.2

But see article 31(3) (acquisition of subsoil or airspace only) of the A47
North Tuddenham to Easton Development Consent Order 2022 which excludes the
acquisition of subsoil or airspace only from this Schedule.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the acquiring authority to purchase the
owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the acquiring authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The acquiring authority must serve notice of their decision on the owner
within the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-
notice is served (“the decision period”).

5.8.7

If the acquiring authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper
Tribunal it must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the acquiring authority does not serve notice of a decision within the
decision period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision
to withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the acquiring authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-
notice, the compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have
effect as if they are included the owner’s interest in the house, building or
factory.

############# Determination by the Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right or the imposition of the restrictive covenant would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making the determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right or the imposition of the covenant,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right or covenant proposed to be acquired or
imposed, and

5.8.11.c

if the right or covenant is proposed to be acquired or imposed for works or
other purposes extending to other land, the effect of the whole of the works
and the use of the other land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right or the
imposition of the covenant would have either of the consequences described in
paragraph 10, it must determine how much of the house, building or factory the
acquiring authority ought to be required to take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the undertaker ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquiring authority ought to be
required to take some or all of the house, building or factory, the acquiring
authority may at any time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day
on which the Upper Tribunal makes it determination withdraw the notice to
treat in relation to that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
it must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any loss
or expense caused by the giving and withdrawing of the notice.

5.8.15

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

.

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Article 33

          (1)       Location         (2)         Plot Reference Number shown
on Land Plans         (3)         Purpose for which temporary possession may
be taken         (4)         Relevant part of the authorised development
Norfolk County Council       Parish of North Tuddenham     1/2h     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
New private access track.     1 and 3     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of North Tuddenham     1/2i     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       New link road between Main Road and the existing A47 west of
Hockering.     2 and 73     Norfolk County Council       Parish of North
Tuddenham     1/3a     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
A47 mainline dual carriageway.       New private access track.     1 and 3
Norfolk County Council       Parish of North Tuddenham     1/4b     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
1 and 3     Norfolk County Council       Parish of North Tuddenham     2/2a
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       New link road
between Main Road and the existing A47 west of Hockering.       Realignment of
Lyng Road south-east of Poppy Wood.     2, 4 and 73     Norfolk County Council
Parish of North Tuddenham     2/3b     Temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1 and 73     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Hockering     2/4c     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       New link road between Main Road and
the existing A47 west of Hockering.     2 and 56     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hockering     2/5b     Material storage, management and processing
area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47
mainline dual carriageway.       Drainage basin, maintenance track and
associated drainage.       Stopping up Low Lane due to A47 mainline dual
carriageway.     1, 5, 6 and 58     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Hockering     2/5c     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
A47 mainline dual carriageway.       Stopping up Low Lane due to A47 mainline
dual carriageway.     1 and 58     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Hockering     2/7a     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
Stopping up Low Lane due to A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1 and 58
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/1a     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Drainage basin and associated drainage maintenance access track.     1, 7, 9
and 74     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/1d
Temporary compound for traffic management.       Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.       Mattishall
Lane Link Road and underbridge.       New road between Main Road and existing
A47 west of Hockering, including stopping up Low Lane and altering junction
with the existing A47.     1, 2, 7, 9 and 59     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hockering     4/1e     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcel:       Mattishall Lane Link Road, connections to existing and realigned
Mattishall Lane.       Drainage basin plus associated drainage and maintenance
access track.     1, 7, 8, 9 and 74     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Hockering     4/1f     Material storage, management and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcel:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.       Mattishall Lane Link Road and underbridge.       New
or upgraded footways on Mattishall Lane and the existing A47.       Works to
de-trunk the existing A47.       Stopping up Mattishall Lane due to A47
mainline dual carriageway.     1, 9, 10, 60 and 74     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hockering     4/4b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       New link road between Main Road and the existing A47 west of
Hockering.     2     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/5a
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       New link road
between Main Road and the existing A47 west of Hockering.     2     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/6a     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       Realignment of Mattishall Lane to
connect with the new Mattishall Lane Link Road.       Stopping up parts of
Mattishall Lane due to the A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1, 8, 9 and 74
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/6e     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
New private access track between Mattishall Lane and Mill Lane.     1 and 11
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     4/9a     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway,
plus noise barriers.     1     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Hockering     5/1a     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
A47 mainline dual carriageway.       Drainage basin provision on adjoining
land.       New private access track between Mattishall Lane and Mill Lane.
1, 11 and 12     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     5/5a
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway, plus noise barriers.     1     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hockering     5/7b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Hockering     5/9b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcel:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1, 75 and 76     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Hockering     5/9d     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
1 and 76     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Hockering     6/3b
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.     1, 13, 77 and 96     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of Hockering     6/10b     Material storage and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.       Drainage basin, maintenance track and associated
drainage.       Newgate House culvert.     1, 14, 61 and 78     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     7/1j     Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels:       Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
electronic communications operators.       New road connecting the existing
A47 east of Hockering with the Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell
roundabout.     1, 17, 80 and 81     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Hockering     7/3a     Material storage, management and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.     1 and 61     Norfolk County Council       Parish of East
Tuddenham     7/6c     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1, 79 and 80     Norfolk County Council
Parish of East Tuddenham     7/6e     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.     1 and 79     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     8/1a     Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels:       Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for
electronic communications operators.       New road connecting the existing
A47 east of Hockering with A47 Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell
roundabout.     17, 80 and 81     Norfolk County Council       Parish of East
Tuddenham     8/3a     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for electronic communications
operators.       New road connecting the existing A47 east of Hockering with
the Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout.     17, 80 and 81
Norfolk County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     8/3d     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Wood Lane junction west bound on slip road.     1, 19, 82 and 83     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     8/3h     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcel:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
1, 19, 80, 82 and 83     Norfolk County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham
8/4b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcel:       Diversion of
surface water drainage.     16, 55 and 80     Norfolk County Council
Parish of East Tuddenham     8/5a Temporary compound, including material
storage, management and processing area. 1, 62 and 63 Norfolk County Council
Parish of East Tuddenham 8/6b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       Installation of ducts, cables and apparatus for electronic
communications operators.       New road connecting the existing A47 east of
Hockering with A47 Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout.     17, 80
and 81     Norfolk County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     9/1a
Temporary compound, including material storage, management and processing
area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Wood
Lane junction west bound on slip road.       Wood Lane junction southern
dumbbell roundabout, plus connecting road to existing A47 north of Honingham.
19, 22, 32, 62, 63 and 84     Norfolk County Council       Parish of East
Tuddenham     9/1c     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
New River Tud outfall and surface water drainage channel for Wood Lane
junction drainage.     22, 32 and 84     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of East Tuddenham     9/1n Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of Wood Lane junction southern dumbbell
roundabout, plus connecting road to existing A47 north of Honingham. 22, 32
and 84     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     9/6c
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Alteration of
the existing A47, north of Honingham, between the new junctions with Dereham
Road junction and new Hall Farm access track.     27, 28, 30 and 32
Norfolk County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     10/2b     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       New road between the existing
A47 east of Hockering and Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout.
Realigning B1535 Wood Lane to tie into above new road.     17, 25 and 81
Norfolk County Council       Parish of East Tuddenham     10/3a     Temporary
storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of
the following in adjoining land parcels:       Realigned B1535 Wood Lane
connection with new road between existing A47 east of Hockering and Wood Lane
junction northern dumbbell roundabout.     17, 25 and 81     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of East Tuddenham Parish of Honingham     10/5c
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Realigned B1535
Wood Lane connection with new road between existing A47 east of Hockering and
Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout.     25, 26a, 81 and 85
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     10/5e     Material
storage, management and processing area.       Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.       A47 Wood
Lane Junction and side road connections.       New footway/cycleway track.
1, 20, 22, 23, 26, 64 and 84     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Honingham     10/5f     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell roundabout.       New road between
existing A47 east of Hockering and Wood Lane junction northern dumbbell
roundabout, plus realigned B1535 Wood Lane connection.       New cycle track.
Optional 50m carriageway and associated footways, embankment and approaches
for Norwich Western Link.     17, 18, 20, 25, 26, 26a and 98     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Honingham     11/1e     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Maintenance access track to drainage basin.     1, 33, 34 and 88     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Honingham     11/1f     Material storage,
management and processing area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.       Hall Farm underpass and
access track.       New cycle track.     1, 26, 30, 31, 33 and 64     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Honingham     11/1h     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcel:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Hall Farm access track.     1, 33, 87 and 88     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Honingham     11/3b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       Altering existing A47 between the Wood Lane junction southern
dumbbell roundabout and existing Honingham roundabout.       New Hall Farm
access track junction with existing A47.     23, 30, 31, 32 and 86     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Honingham     12/3b     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       Attenuation pond and associated
drainage connections and maintenance access track.       A47 mainline dual
carriageway.     1 and 34     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham
12/4b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47
mainline dual carriageway       River Tud crossing     1, 35 and 36
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     13/1a     Temporary
compound.       Material storage, management and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.       Honingham church underpass.       Alteration of
existing A47 connection to Honingham roundabout.       Side road connection
between Honingham roundabout and Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell
roundabout.     1, 32, 37, 38, 40, 42, 43, 65, 66 and 89     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Honingham     13/1h     Temporary storage, laydown
areas, access and working space to support construction of the following in
adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.       Replacement
hardstanding area for the farmer.       Honingham church underpass.     1, 37,
38 and 39     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     14/4b
Temporary compound.       Material storage, management and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline
dual carriageway.       Norwich Road junction west bound on slip road.
Side road connection between Honingham roundabout and Norwich Road junction
southern dumbbell roundabout.     1, 40 and 43     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Honingham     14/4e     Material storage, management and processing
area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
Drainage basin and maintenance access track.       Cycle track between
Taverham Road and Church Lane, Easton       Norwich Road junction northern
dumbbell roundabout.       Realigned Taverham Road connection to Norwich Road
junction northern dumbbell roundabout.       Norwich Road junction east bound
on slip road.     41, 44, 47, 48, 51, 67 and 92     Norfolk County Council
Parish of Honingham     14/4f     Material storage, management and processing
area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to
support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Norwich
Road junction west bound off slip road       Side road connection between
Dereham Road, Easton, and Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout.
49, 50 and 58     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     14/5a
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Side road
connection between Honingham roundabout and Norwich Road junction southern
dumbbell roundabout.       Stopping up Blind Lane due to A1 mainline and
Norwich Road junction slip roads and side road.     1, 40, 42 and 43
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Honingham     14/6a     Temporary
access and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels:       Realignment of Taverham Road to connect with the proposed
Norwich Road junction.       Reconfiguration of the existing A47 connection to
Taverham Road.     39, 47, 90 and 91     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of Honingham     14/8b     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and
working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout.       Side
road connection between Honingham roundabout and Norwich Road junction
southern dumbbell roundabout.       Side road connection between Dereham Road,
Easton, and Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout.       Stopping
up Blind Lane due to A1 mainline and Norwich Road junction slip roads and side
road.     1, 40, 42, 43, 46, 50 and 91     Norfolk County Council       Parish
of Honingham     15/1e     Material storage, management and processing area.
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Norwich Road
junction west bound off slip road       New road between Norwich Road junction
southern dumbbell roundabout and Dereham Road, Easton.     49, 50 and 68
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Easton     15/4a     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Norwich Road junction east bound on slip road.       New cycle track linking
Taverham Road and Church Lane, Easton.     1, 48, 51, 92 and 93     Norfolk
County Council       Parish of Easton     15/4d     Material storage,
management and processing area.       Temporary storage, laydown areas, access
and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining land
parcels:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.       New cycle track linking
Taverham Road and Church Lane, Easton.     1, 51, 69, 70, 93 and 94
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Easton     15/5c     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcel:       A47 mainline dual carriageway.
Norwich Road junction west bound off slip road.       New road linking Dereham
Road, Easton, with Norwich Road junction southern dumbbell roundabout.     1,
49, 50 and 92     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Easton     16/1c
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       New cycle track
between Taverham Road and Church Lane, Easton.       Alteration of Church
Lane, Easton, north of the A47.     52, 53, 71, 72 and 95     Norfolk County
Council       Parish of Easton     16/5c     Temporary storage, laydown areas,
access and working space to support construction of the following in adjoining
land parcels:       Norwich Road junction side road connection to Dereham
Road, Easton.     50, 51 and 52     Norfolk County Council       Parish of
Easton     16/6a     Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working
space to support construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:
Norwich Road junction side road connection to Dereham Road, Easton.     50, 51
and 52     Norfolk County Council       Parish of Easton     16/7b
Temporary storage, laydown areas, access and working space to support
construction of the following in adjoining land parcels:       Tying A47
mainline dual carriageway into existing A47 dual carriageway.     1
Norfolk County Council       Parish of Easton     17/1c     Temporary storage,
laydown areas, access and working space to support construction of the
following in adjoining land parcels:       Altering southern corner of Rotten
Row and Church Lane junction with associated drainage alterations     54

  REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

Article 39

##### REMOVAL OF HEDGEROWS

          (1)         Location of hedgerow         (2)         Work to be
carried out         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
H49 to H50 shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work
Nos. 2, 4 and 73 H51 to H52 shown on sheets 1 and 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Full
removal Work Nos. 2 and 73 H57 to H57a shown on sheet 2 of the Hedgerow Plans
Full removal Work Nos. 1 and 5 H61 to H62 shown on sheet 3 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 2, 9 and 10 H1 to H2 shown on sheet 5 of the
Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 75 and 76 H3 to H4 shown on sheets
5 and 6 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1 and 77 H7 to H8
shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1 and 14 H11 to
H12 shown on sheets 6 and 7 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos.
1and 61 H17 to H18 shown on sheets 7 and 8 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal
Work Nos. 1 and 80 H104 to H105 shown on sheet 8 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial
removal Work Nos. 1, 17 and 18 H72 to H72a shown on sheet 9 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 19, 22, 32 and 84 H82 to H83 shown on sheet 9
of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 27, 32 and 84 H74a to H75
shown on sheets 9 and 10 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 21,
22 and 24 H49 to H50 shown on sheet 13 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal
Work Nos. 1, 40 and 89 H37 to H38 shown on sheets 13 and 14 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 40, 43 and 91 H90 to H91 shown on sheet 14 of
the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 39, 41, 47, 90 and 91 H96 to H97
shown on sheet 15 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 49, 92 and
95

##### REMOVAL OF IMPORTANT HEDGEROWS

          (1)         Location of hedgerow         (2)         Work to be
carried out         (3)         Relevant part of the authorised development
H53 to H54 shown on sheet 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 2
and 4 H55 to H56 shown on sheet 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work
Nos. 2 and 5 H57a to H58 shown on sheet 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal
Work Nos. 1 and 5 H59 to H60 shown on sheet 2 of the Hedgerow Plans Full
removal Work No. 1 H63 to H64 shown on sheet 4 of the Hedgerow Plans Full
removal Work No. 8 H5 to H6 shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial
removal Work Nos. 1 and 13 H9 to H10 shown on sheet 6 of the Hedgerow Plans
Partial removal Work Nos. 1 H13 to H14 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow Plans
Full removal Work Nos. 1 and 80 H15 to H16 shown on sheet 7 of the Hedgerow
Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 15, 16 and 80 H65 to H66 shown on sheet 7 of
the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work No. 1 H70 to H71 shown on sheet 9 of
the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work No. 62 H72a to H73 shown on sheet 9 of
the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 32 and 84 H76 to H77 shown on
sheet 9 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 32 and 84 H78 to H79
shown on sheet 9 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 28, 32 and 84
H74 to H74a shown on sheet 10 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 17,
18, 20, 21 25, 26a, 81 and 85 H80 to H81 shown on sheet 10 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 26a, 84 and 98 H21 to H22 shown on sheets 9
and 10 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 17, 20, 21 and 85 H23
to H24 shown on sheets 9 and 10 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work
Nos. 1, 23, 26, 64 and 84 H19 to H20 shown on sheet 10 of the Hedgerow Plans
Partial removal Work Nos. 25, 26a and 85 H25 to H26 shown on sheet 11 of the
Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 23, 26, 30 and 86 H27 to H28 shown
on sheet 11 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 33, 64, 87 and
97 H29 to H30 shown on sheet 11 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos.
1, 33, 87 and 97 H84 to H85 shown on sheet 11 of the Hedgerow Plans Full
removal Work Nos. 1, 31 and 33 H86 to H87 shown on sheet 11 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1 and 33 H31 to H32 shown on sheets 11 and 12
of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1 and 88 H33 to H34 shown on
sheets 11 and 12 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 88 and 97
H35 to H36 shown on sheet 13 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos.
1, 40, 42, 43 and 89 H39 to H40 shown on sheet 14 of the Hedgerow Plans
Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 40, 42 and 43 H91 to H92 shown on sheet 14 of the
Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 41, 47 and 90 H93 to H94 shown on
sheet 14 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 42 and 91 H41 to H42
shown on sheet 14 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 40, 42, 43,
90, 91 and 92 H43 to H44 shown on sheets 14 and 15 of the Hedgerow Plans
Partial removal Work Nos. 40 and 91 H95 to H96 shown on sheets 14 and 15 of
the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1, 41, 47, 48, 51, 92 and 99 H102 to
H103 shown on sheets 14 and 15 of the Hedgerow Plans Full removal Work Nos. 1,
41, 44, 47, 48, 49, 50 and 92 H45 to H46 shown on sheet 15 of the Hedgerow
Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 49 and 50 H47 to H48 shown on sheet 15 of the
Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos. 1, 51 and 95 H98 to H99 shown on
sheet 15 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial Removal Work Nos. 1, 48, 51, 92 and 99
H100 to H101 shown on sheet 15 of the Hedgerow Plans Partial removal Work Nos.
1, 51, 69, 70, 92 and 99

  PROTECTIVE PROVISIONS

Article 35 and 49

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ELECTRICITY, GAS, WATER AND SEWAGE UNDERTAKERS

1

For the protection of the utility undertakers referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and the utility undertaker concerned.

2

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ alternative apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable the
utility undertaker in question to fulfil its statutory functions in a manner
no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means— in the case of an
electricity undertaker, electric lines or electrical plant (as defined in the
Electricity Act 1989 , belonging to or maintained by that utility undertaker;
in that case of a gas undertaker, any mains, pipes or other apparatus
belonging to or maintained by a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1
of the Gas Act 1986  for the purposes of gas supply; in the case of water
undertaker, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by that
utility undertaker for the purposes of water supply; and in the case of a
sewerage undertaker— any drain or works vested in the utility undertaker under
the Water Industry Act 1991 ; and any sewer which is so vested or is the
subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section 102(4) (adoption
of sewers and disposal works) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under
section 104 (agreement to adopt sewers, drains or sewage disposal works at
future date) of that Act , and includes a sludge main, disposal main (within
the meaning of section 219 (general interpretation) of that Act) or sewer
outfall and any manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories
forming part of any such sewer, drain or works,

and includes any structure in which apparatus is or is to be lodged or which
gives or will give access to apparatus;

“ functions ” includes powers and duties; “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “plan” include all designs,
drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports, programmes,
calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are reasonably
necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be executed; and
“ utility undertaker ” means— any licence holder within the meaning of Part 1
of the Electricity Act 1989; a gas transporter within the meaning of Part 1 of
the Gas Act 1986; a water undertaker within the meaning of the Water Industry
Act 1991; and a sewerage undertaker within the meaning of Part 1 of the Water
Industry Act 1991,

for the area of the authorised development, and in relation to any apparatus,
means the utility undertaker to whom it belongs or by whom it is maintained.

###### On street apparatus

3

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and the utility undertaker are regulated by
the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

4

4.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 16 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), any utility
undertaker whose apparatus is in the street has the same powers and rights in
respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before the stopping up and
the undertaker must grant to the utility undertaker legal easements reasonably
satisfactory to the utility undertaker in respect of such apparatus and access
to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any right of the undertaker or of
the utility undertaker to require the removal of that apparatus under
paragraph 7 or the power of the undertaker to carry out works under paragraph
9.

4.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article 15 (temporary stopping up and restriction of use
of streets), a utility undertaker is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

5

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

6

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

7

7.1

— If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that the utility undertaker’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that
apparatus must not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right
of a utility undertaker to maintain that apparatus in that land must not be
extinguished until alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in
operation to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker in question
in accordance with sub-paragraphs (2) to (6).

7.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to the
utility undertaker in question 28 days’ written notice of that requirement,
together with a plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the
alternative apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in
consequence of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order a
utility undertaker reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the
undertaker must, subject to sub-paragraph (3), afford to the utility
undertaker the necessary facilities and rights for the construction of
alternative apparatus in other land of the undertaker and subsequently for the
maintenance of that apparatus.

7.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph (2) in the
land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed, the utility undertaker in question must, on receipt of a written
notice to that effect from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use
its best endeavours to obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land
in which the alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

7.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between the utility undertaker in question and
the undertaker or in default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance
with article  52  (arbitration).

7.5

The utility undertaker in question must, after the alternative apparatus to be
provided or constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in
accordance with article  52  (arbitration), and after the grant to the utility
undertaker of any such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-
paragraph (2) or (3), proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring
into operation the alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any
apparatus required by the undertaker to be removed under the provisions of
this Part of this Schedule.

7.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph (5), if the undertaker gives notice in
writing to the utility undertaker in question that the undertaker desires
itself to execute any work, or part of any work in connection with the
construction or removal of apparatus in any land of the undertaker, that work,
instead of being executed by the utility undertaker, must be executed by the
undertaker without unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and
to the reasonable satisfaction of the utility undertaker.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

8

8.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and the utility undertaker in question or in default of
agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  52
(arbitration).

8.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to the utility undertaker in question than the
facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed
and the terms and conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject,
the arbitrator must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the
undertaker to that utility undertaker as appears to the arbitrator to be
reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the particular case.

###### Retained apparatus

9

9.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus the removal of which has not
been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2), the undertaker must
submit to the utility undertaker in question a plan of the works to be
executed.

9.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
subparagraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) by the utility undertaker for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and the utility undertaker is entitled to watch and inspect the
execution of those works.

9.3

Any requirements made by a utility undertaker under sub-paragraph (2) are to
be made within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan
under sub-paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

9.4

If a utility undertaker, in accordance with sub-paragraph (3) and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 1 to 3 and 6 to 8 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph 7(2).

9.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

9.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (5)  in a case of
emergency but in that case it must give to the utility undertaker in question
notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon
as reasonably practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph (3)
in so far as is reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

9.7

In relation to works which will or may be situated on, over, under or within
10 metres measured in any direction of any electricity apparatus, or involve
embankment works within 10 metres of any electricity apparatus, the plan to be
submitted to the utility undertaker under subparagraph  (1)  must be detailed,
include a method statement and describe—

9.7.a

the exact position of the works;

9.7.b

the level at which they are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

9.7.c

the manner of their construction or renewal;

9.7.d

the position of all electricity apparatus; and

9.7.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to such
apparatus.

###### Expenses and costs

10

10.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to a utility undertaker all expenses reasonably incurred by that utility
undertaker in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or
protection of any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may
be required in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred
to in paragraph 7(2).

10.2

The value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule must be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph (1), that
value being calculated after removal.

10.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

10.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

10.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with article  52  (arbitration) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to the utility undertaker in question by virtue of
sub-paragraph  (1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

10.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph (3)—

10.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus must not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

10.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole must be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

10.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to a utility
undertaker in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on the utility
undertaker any financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the
apparatus in the ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which
represents that benefit.

11

11.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) and (3), if by reason or in consequence of the
construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 5 or 7(2) any damage
is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the
repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal
for the purposes of those works) or property of a utility undertaker, or there
is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
any utility undertaker, the undertaker must—

11.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by that utility undertaker in making
good such damage or restoring the supply; and

11.1.b

make reasonable compensation to that utility undertaker for any other
expenses, loss, damages, penalty or costs incurred by the utility undertaker,

by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption.

11.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by a utility undertaker on
behalf of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by a utility
undertaker or in accordance with any requirement of a utility undertaker or
under its supervision does not, subject to sub-paragraph (3), excuse the
undertaker from liability under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1) .

11.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of a utility undertaker, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

11.4

A utility undertaker must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made without the
consent of the undertaker and, if such consent is withheld, has the sole
conduct of any settlement or compromise of any proceedings necessary to resist
the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

12

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised development, the undertaker or a utility undertaker requires the
removal of apparatus under paragraph 7(2) or a utility undertaker makes
requirements for the protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 9,
the undertaker must use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of
the works in the interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution
of the authorised development and taking into account the need to ensure the
safe and efficient operation of the utility undertaker’s undertaking and each
utility undertaker must use its best endeavours to co- operate with the
undertaker for that purpose.

13

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and a utility
undertaker in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to
the undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF OPERATORS OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS CODE NETWORKS

14

For the protection of any operator, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and the operator.

15

In this Part of this Schedule—

      “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act 2003 ;           “
electronic communications apparatus ” has the same meaning as in the
electronic communications code;           “ the electronic communications code
” has the same meaning as in Chapter 1 (electronic communications, networks
and services) of Part 2 of the 2003 Act ;           “ electronic
communications code network ” means—         so much of an electronic
communications network or infrastructure system provided by an electronic
communications code operator as is not excluded from the application of the
electronic communications code by a direction under section 106 (application
of the electronic communications code) of the 2003 Act; and           an
electronic communications network which the undertaker is providing or
proposing to provide;                 “ electronic communications code
operator ” means a person in whose case the electronic communications code is
applied by a direction under section 106 of the 2003 Act;           “
infrastructure system ” has the same meaning as in the electronic
communications code and references to providing an infrastructure system are
to be construed in accordance with paragraph 7(2) of that code; and
“ operator ” means the operator of an electronic communications code network.

16

The exercise of the powers conferred by article 35 (statutory undertakers) is
subject to Part 10 (undertakers works affecting electronic communications
apparatus) the electronic communications code in the 2003 Act.

17

17.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs (2) to (4), if as the result of the authorised
development or its construction, or of any subsidence resulting from any of
those works—

17.1.a

any damage is caused to any electronic communications apparatus belonging to
an operator (other than apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably
necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes of those works), or
other property of an operator; or

17.1.b

there is any interruption in the supply of the service provided by an
operator,

the undertaker must bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by the operator
in making good such damage or restoring the supply and make reasonable
compensation to that operator for any other expenses, loss, damages, penalty
or costs incurred by it, by reason, or in consequence of, any such damage or
interruption.

17.2

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of an operator, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

17.3

The operator must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise of the claim or demand is to be made
without the consent of the undertaker which, if it withholds such consent, has
the sole conduct of any settlement or compromise or of any proceedings
necessary to resist the claim or demand.

17.4

Any difference arising between the undertaker and the operator under this Part
of this Schedule must be referred to and settled by arbitration under article
52  (arbitration).

17.5

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to—

17.5.a

any apparatus in respect of which the relations between the undertaker and an
operator are regulated by the provisions of Part 3 (street works in England
and Wales) of the 1991 Act; or

17.5.b

any damages, or any interruption, caused by electro-magnetic interference
arising from the construction or use of the authorised development.

17.6

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and an operator
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF NATIONAL GRID AS GAS UNDERTAKER

###### Application

18

18.1

For the protection of National Grid as referred to in this Part of this
Schedule the following provisions have effect, unless otherwise agreed in
writing between the undertaker and National Grid.

18.2

Subject to sub-paragraph  (3)  or to the extent otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, where the benefit of this Order is
transferred or granted to another person under article  10  (consent to
transfer benefit of Order)—

18.2.a

any agreement of the type mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  has effect as if it
had been made between National Grid and the transferee or grantee (as the case
may be); and

18.2.b

written notice of the transfer or grant must be given to National Grid on or
before the date of that transfer or grant.

18.3

Sub-paragraph  (2)  does not apply where the benefit of the Order is
transferred or granted to National Grid (but see paragraph  28(3)(b) ).

###### Interpretation

19

In this Part of this Schedule—

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means appropriate alternative apparatus to the reasonable
satisfaction of National Grid to enable National Grid to fulfil its statutory
functions in a manner no less efficient than previously; “ apparatus ” means
any gas mains, pipes, pressure governors, ventilators, cathodic protections,
cables or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by National Grid for the
purposes of gas supply together with any replacement apparatus and such other
apparatus constructed pursuant to the Order that becomes operational apparatus
of National Grid for the purposes of transmission, distribution or supply and
includes any structure in which apparatus is or will be lodged or which gives
or will give access to apparatus; “ authorised works ” has the same meaning as
is given to the term “authorised development” in article 2 (1)  of this Order
and for the purposes of this Part of this Schedule includes the use and
maintenance of the authorised works and construction of any works authorised
by this Schedule; “commence” and “commencement” in paragraph  26  and  28  of
this Part of this Schedule includes any below ground surveys, monitoring,
ground work operations or the receipt and erection of construction plant and
equipment, “ deed of consent ” means a deed of consent, crossing agreement,
deed of variation or new deed of grant agreed between the parties acting
reasonably in order to vary or replace existing easements, agreements, and
other such interests so as to secure land rights and interests as are
necessary to carry out, maintain, operate and use the apparatus in a manner
consistent with the terms of this Part of this Schedule; “ functions ”
includes powers and duties; “ ground mitigation scheme ” means a scheme
approved by National Grid (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) setting out the necessary measures (if any) for a ground subsidence
event; “ ground monitoring scheme ” means a scheme for monitoring ground
subsidence which sets out the apparatus which is to be subject to such
monitoring, the extent of land to be monitored, the manner in which ground
levels are to be monitored, the timescales of any monitoring activities and
the extent of ground subsidence which, if exceeded, requires the undertaker to
submit for National Grid’s approval a ground mitigation scheme; “ ground
subsidence event ” means any ground subsidence identified by the monitoring
activities set out in the ground monitoring scheme that has exceeded the level
described in the ground monitoring scheme as requiring a ground mitigation
scheme; “in” in a context referring to apparatus or alternative apparatus in
land includes a reference to apparatus or alternative apparatus under, over,
across, along or upon such land; “maintain” and “ maintenance ” includes the
ability and right to do any of the following in relation to any apparatus or
alternative apparatus of National Grid including construct, use, repair,
alter, inspect, renew or remove the apparatus; “ National Grid ” means
National Grid Gas Plc or any successor as a gas transporter within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Gas Act 1986 as the context requires; “plan” or “plans”
include all designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil
reports, programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that
are reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe and assess the
works to be executed; “ specified works ” means any of the authorised works or
activities undertaken in association with the authorised works which: will or
may be situated over, or within 15 metres measured in any direction of any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph  24(2)  or otherwise; or may in any way adversely affect any
apparatus the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under
paragraph  24(2)  or otherwise.

20

Except for paragraphs 21 (apparatus in stopped up streets), 26 (retained
apparatus: protection), 27 (expenses) and 28 (indemnity) of this Schedule
which will apply in respect of the exercise of all or any powers under the
Order affecting the rights and apparatus of National Grid, the other
provisions of this Schedule do not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and National Grid are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus of National Grid in stopped up streets

21

21.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 16 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), if National Grid
has any apparatus in the street or accessed via that street National Grid has
the same rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed immediately before
the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to National Grid, or procure the
granting to National Grid of, legal easements reasonably satisfactory to
National Grid in respect of such apparatus and access to it prior to the
stopping up of any such street but nothing in this paragraph affects any right
of the undertaker or National Grid to require the removal of that apparatus
under paragraph 24 or the power of the undertaker, subject to compliance with
this sub-paragraph, to carry out works under paragraph 26.

21.2

Notwithstanding the temporary alteration, diversion or restriction of any
highway under the powers of article 15 (temporary stopping up and restriction
of use of streets), National Grid will be at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such street and to execute and do all such works
and things in, upon or under any such street as may be reasonably necessary or
desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the time of the
alteration, diversion or restriction was in that street.

###### Protective works to buildings

22

The undertaker must exercise the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings) so as not to obstruct or render less convenient the access
to any apparatus without the written consent of National Grid (such consent
not to be unreasonably withheld).

###### Acquisition of land

23

23.1

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker may not acquire any interest in land or apparatus or override
any easement or other interest of National Grid otherwise than by agreement.

23.2

As a condition of an agreement between the parties in sub-paragraph  (1) ,
prior to the carrying out of any part of the authorised works (or in such
other timeframe as may be agreed between National Grid and the undertaker)
that is subject to the requirements of this Part of this Schedule that will
cause any conflict with or breach the terms of any easement or other legal or
land interest of National Grid or affect the provisions of any enactment or
agreement regulating the relations between National Grid and the undertaker in
respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to or secured by
the undertaker, the undertaker must as National Grid reasonably requires enter
into such deeds of consent upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between National Grid and the undertaker acting reasonably and which must be
no less favourable on the whole to National Grid unless otherwise agreed by
National Grid, and it will be the responsibility of the undertaker to procure
and secure the consent and entering into of such deeds and variations by all
other third parties with an interest in the land at that time who are affected
by such authorised works.

23.3

The undertaker and National Grid agree that where there is any inconsistency
or duplication between the provisions set out in this Part of this Schedule
relating to the relocation or removal of apparatus (including but not limited
to the payment of costs and expenses relating to such relocation or removal of
apparatus) and the provisions of any existing easement, rights, agreements and
licences granted, used, enjoyed or exercised by National Grid or other
enactments relied upon by National Grid as of right or other use in relation
to the apparatus, then the provisions in this Schedule prevail.

23.4

Any agreement or consent granted by National Grid under paragraph 26or any
other paragraph of this Part of this Schedule, is not to be taken to
constitute agreement under sub-paragraph  (1) .

###### Removal of apparatus

24

24.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in or possesses temporarily any land in which any
apparatus is placed, that apparatus must not be removed under this Part of
this Schedule and any right of National Grid to maintain that apparatus in
that land must not be extinguished until alternative apparatus has been
constructed, and is in operation to the reasonable satisfaction of National
Grid in accordance with sub-paragraph  (2)  to  (5) .

24.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on, under or over any land
purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker
requires the removal of any apparatus placed in that land, it must give to
National Grid advance written notice of that requirement, together with a plan
of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order National Grid
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to National Grid to its reasonable satisfaction
(taking into account paragraph 25 (1) ) the necessary facilities and rights—

24.2.a

for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of, or secured by,
the undertaker; and

24.2.b

subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

24.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of or land secured by the undertaker, or the
undertaker is unable to afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in
sub-paragraph  (2)  in the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of
such apparatus is to be constructed, National Grid must, on receipt of a
written notice to that effect from the undertaker, take such steps as are
reasonable in the circumstances in an endeavour to obtain the necessary
facilities and rights in the land in which the alternative apparatus is to be
constructed save that this obligation does not extend to the requirement for
National Grid to use its compulsory purchase powers to this end unless it
elects to so do.

24.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of or land secured by the
undertaker under this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner
and in such line or situation as may be agreed between National Grid and the
undertaker.

24.5

National Grid must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed, and subject to the grant to National Grid of any
such facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraph  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

25

25.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to or secures for National Grid facilities and rights in
land for the construction, use, maintenance and protection of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights must be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed between
the undertaker and National Grid and must be no less favourable on the whole
to National Grid than the facilities and rights enjoyed by it in respect of
the apparatus to be removed unless otherwise agreed by National Grid.

25.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker under paragraph
(1)  above in respect of any alternative apparatus, and the terms and
conditions subject to which those facilities and rights are to be granted, are
less favourable on the whole to National Grid than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the matter may be
referred to arbitration in accordance with paragraph 32 (Arbitration) of this
Part of this Schedule and the arbitrator must make such provision for the
payment of compensation by the undertaker to National Grid as appears to the
arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to all the circumstances of the
particular case.

###### Retained apparatus: protection of gas undertaker

26

26.1

Not less than 56 days before the commencement of any specified works the
undertaker must submit to National Grid a plan and, if reasonably required by
National Grid, a ground monitoring scheme in respect of those works.

26.2

The plan to be submitted to National Grid under sub-paragraph  (1)  must
include a method statement and describe—

26.2.a

the exact position of the works;

26.2.b

the level at which these are proposed to be constructed or renewed;

26.2.c

the manner of their construction or renewal including details of excavation,
positioning of plant etc;

26.2.d

the position of all apparatus;

26.2.e

by way of detailed drawings, every alteration proposed to be made to or close
to any such apparatus; and

26.2.f

any intended maintenance regimes.

26.3

The undertaker must not commence any specified works until National Grid has
given written approval of the plan so submitted.

26.4

Any approval of National Grid required under sub-paragraph  (3) —

26.4.a

may be given subject to reasonable conditions for any purpose mentioned in
sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (7)  ; and,

26.4.b

must not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

26.5

National Grid may require such modifications to be made to the plans as may be
reasonably necessary for the purpose of securing its apparatus against
interference or risk of damage for the provision of protective works or for
the purpose of providing or securing proper and convenient means of access to
any apparatus.

26.6

Specified works must only be executed in accordance with—

26.6.a

the plan, submitted under sub-paragraph  (1) , as approved or as amended from
time to time by agreement between the undertaker and National Grid; and

26.6.b

such reasonable requirements as may be made in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(5)  or  (7)  by National Grid for the alteration or otherwise for the
protection of the apparatus, or for securing access to it, and National Grid
will be entitled to watch and inspect the execution of those works.

26.7

Where under sub-paragraph  (6)  National Grid requires any protective works to
be carried out by itself or by the undertaker such protective works (whether
of a temporary or permanent nature) must be carried out to National Grid’s
satisfaction prior to the commencement of any specified works for which
protective works are required and National Grid must give notice of its
requirement for such works within 42 days of the date of submission of a plan
pursuant to this paragraph (except in an emergency).

26.8

If National Grid in accordance with sub-paragraphs  (5)  or  (7)  and in
consequence of the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the
removal of any apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that
requirement, paragraphs 18 to 20 and 23 to 25 apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  24(2) .

26.9

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 56 days before commencing the
execution of the specified works, a new plan, instead of the plan previously
submitted, and having done so the provisions of this paragraph will apply to
and in respect of the new plan.

26.10

As soon as reasonably practicable after any ground subsidence event
attributable to the authorised works—

26.10.a

the undertaker must implement an appropriate ground mitigation scheme; and

26.10.b

National Grid retains the right to carry out any further necessary protective
works for the safeguarding of its apparatus and can recover any such costs in
line with paragraph 28.

26.11

The undertaker is not be required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  where it
needs to carry out emergency works but in that case it must give to National
Grid notice as soon as is reasonably practicable and a plan of those works and
must comply with sub-paragraphs  (5) ,  (6)  and  (7)  insofar as is
reasonably practicable in the circumstances.

26.12

In sub-paragraph  (11) , “ emergency works ” means works whose execution at
the time when they are executed is required in order to put an end to, or to
prevent the occurrence of, circumstances then existing or imminent (or which
the person responsible for the works believes on reasonable grounds to be
existing or imminent) which are likely to cause danger to persons or property.

###### Expenses

27

27.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must pay
to National Grid within 30 days of receipt of an itemised invoice or claim
from National Grid all charges, costs and expenses reasonably anticipated
within the following three months or reasonably and properly incurred by
National Grid in, or in connection with, the inspection, removal, relaying or
replacing, alteration or protection of any apparatus or the construction of
any new or alternative apparatus which may be required in consequence of the
execution of any authorised works including without limitation —

27.1.a

any costs reasonably incurred by or compensation properly paid by National
Grid in connection with the acquisition of rights or the exercise of statutory
powers for such apparatus including without limitation all costs incurred by
National Grid as a consequence of National Grid;

27.1.a.i

using its own compulsory purchase powers to acquire any necessary rights under
paragraph  24(3) ; or

27.1.a.ii

exercising any compulsory purchase powers in the Order transferred to or
benefitting National Grid;

27.1.b

in connection with the cost of the carrying out of any diversion work or the
provision of any alternative apparatus, where no written diversion agreement
is otherwise in place;

27.1.c

the cutting off of any apparatus from any other apparatus or the making safe
of redundant apparatus;

27.1.d

the approval of plans;

27.1.e

the carrying out of protective works, plus a capitalised sum to cover the cost
of maintaining and renewing permanent protective works;

27.1.f

the survey of any land, apparatus or works, the inspection and monitoring of
works or the installation or removal of any temporary works reasonably
necessary in consequence of the execution of any such works referred to in
this Part of this Schedule.

27.2

There will be deducted from any sum payable under sub-paragraph  (1)  the
value of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this
Schedule and which is not re-used as part of the alternative apparatus, that
value being calculated after removal.

27.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

27.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

27.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated,

and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity or of those dimensions
or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case may be, is not agreed
by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not determined by
arbitration in accordance with paragraph 32 ( arbitration ) to be necessary,
then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works under this
Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved if the
apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions, or at
the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this sub-
paragraph would be payable to National Grid by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)
will be reduced by the amount of that excess save to the extent that it is not
possible in the circumstances to obtain the existing type of apparatus at the
same capacity and dimensions or place at the existing depth in which case full
costs will be borne by the undertaker.

27.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

27.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus will not be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

27.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole will be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

27.5

Any amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to National
Grid in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1)  will, if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on National Grid any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

###### Indemnity

28

28.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any works authorised by this Part of this Schedule or in
consequence of the construction, use, maintenance or failure of any of the
authorised works by or on behalf of the undertaker or in consequence of any
act or default of the undertaker (or any person employed or authorised by him)
in the course of carrying out such works, including without limitation works
carried out by the undertaker under this Part of this Schedule or any
subsidence resulting from any of these works, any damage is caused to any
apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than apparatus the repair of which
is not reasonably necessary in view of its intended removal for the purposes
of the authorised works) or property of National Grid, or there is any
interruption in any service provided, or in the supply of any goods, by
National Grid, or National Grid becomes liable to pay any amount to any third
party, the undertaker will—

28.1.a

bear and pay on demand accompanied by an invoice or claim from National Grid
the cost reasonably and properly incurred by National Grid in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

28.1.b

indemnify National Grid for any other expenses, loss, demands, proceedings,
damages, claims, penalty or costs incurred by or recovered from National Grid,
by reason or in consequence of any such damage or interruption or National
Grid becoming liable to any third party as aforesaid other than arising from
any default of National Grid.

28.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by National Grid on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by National Grid or in
accordance with any requirement of National Grid or under its supervision will
not (unless sub-paragraph  (3)  applies), excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of this sub-paragraph  (1)  unless National Grid fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and workman like manner or in a manner that does not accord with the
approved plan.

28.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker in
respect of-

28.3.a

any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to the
neglect or default of National Grid, its officers, servants, contractors or
agents;

28.3.b

any part of the authorised works carried out by National Grid in the exercise
of any functions conferred by this Order pursuant to a grant or transfer under
article 9 (consent to transfer benefit of Order).

28.4

National Grid must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such third
party claim or demand and no settlement, admission of liability or compromise
must, unless payment is required in connection with a statutory compensation
scheme, be made without first consulting the undertaker and considering their
representations.

28.5

National Grid must, in respect of any matter covered by the indemnity given by
the undertaker in this paragraph, at all times act reasonably and in the same
manner as it would as if settling third party claims on its own behalf from
its own funds.

28.6

National Grid must use its reasonable endeavours to mitigate and to minimise
any costs, expenses, loss, demands, and penalties to which the indemnity under
this paragraph applies where it is within National Grid’s reasonable ability
and control to do so and which expressly excludes any obligation to mitigate
liability arising from third parties which is outside of National Grid’s
control and if reasonably requested to do so by the undertaker National Grid
must provide an explanation of how the claim has been minimised, where
relevant.

###### Enactments and agreements

29

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and National Grid
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

###### Co-operation

30

30.1

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any part of the
authorised works, the undertaker or National Grid requires the removal of
apparatus under paragraph  24(2)  or National Grid makes requirements for the
protection or alteration of apparatus under paragraph 26, the undertaker must
use its best endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
works and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of National Grid’s undertaking and National Grid must use its best
endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

30.2

For the avoidance of doubt whenever the undertaker’s or National Grid’s
consent, agreement or approval is required in relation to plans, documents or
other information submitted under this schedule, or agreement is required to
be reached between the parties under this schedule, it must not be
unreasonably withheld or delayed.

###### Access

31

If in consequence of the agreement reached in accordance with paragraph 23 (1)
or the powers granted under this Order the access to any apparatus is
materially obstructed, the undertaker must provide such alternative means of
access to such apparatus as will enable National Grid to maintain or use the
apparatus no less effectively than was possible before such obstruction.

###### Arbitration

32

Save for differences or disputes arising under paragraph  24(2) ,  24(4)  and
25(1) , any difference or dispute arising between the undertaker and National
Grid under this Part of this Schedule must, unless otherwise agreed in writing
between the undertaker and National Grid, be determined by arbitration in
accordance with article  52  ( arbitration ).

###### Notices

33

Notwithstanding article  51  (service of notices), any plans submitted to
National Grid by the undertaker pursuant to paragraph 26 must be sent to
https://lsbud.co.uk/  and National Grid Plant Protection at
assetprotection@nationalgrid.com  or such other address as National Grid may
from time to time appoint instead for that purpose and notify to the
undertaker in writing.

##### FOR THE PROTECTION OF ANGLIAN WATER

###### Application

34

For the protection of Anglian Water, the following provisions have effect,
unless otherwise agreed in writing between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

###### Interpretation

35

In this part of this Schedule –

“ 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and Street Works Act 1991; “ alternative
apparatus ” means alternative apparatus adequate to enable Anglian Water to
fulfil its statutory functions in a manner no less efficient than previously;
“ Anglian Water ” means Anglian Water Services Limited; “ apparatus ” means—
works, mains, pipes or other apparatus belonging to or maintained by Anglian
Water for the purposes of water supply and sewerage; any drain or works vested
in Anglian Water under The Water Industry Act 1991, any sewer which is so
vested or is the subject of a notice of intention to adopt given under section
102(4) of that Act or an agreement to adopt made under section 104 of that
Act; and includes a sludge main, disposal main or sewer outfall and any
manholes, ventilating shafts, pumps or other accessories forming part of any
such sewer, drain or works, and includes any structure in which apparatus is
or is to be lodged or which gives or will give access to apparatus

and for the purpose of this definition, where words are defined by section 219
of the Water Industry Act 1991 they shall be taken to have the same meaning.

“ functions ” includes powers and duties “in” in a context referring to
apparatus or alternative apparatus in land, includes a reference to apparatus
or alternative apparatus under, over or upon land; “ plan ” includes all
designs, drawings, specifications, method statements, soil reports,
programmes, calculations, risk assessments and other documents that are
reasonably necessary properly and sufficiently to describe the works to be
executed.

###### On street apparatus

36

This Part of this Schedule does not apply to apparatus in respect of which the
relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water are regulated by the
provisions of Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

###### Apparatus in stopped up streets

37

37.1

Where any street is stopped up under article 16 (permanent stopping up and
restriction of use of streets and private means of access), where Anglian
Water has apparatus in the street or accessed by virtue of that street, it has
the same powers and rights in respect of that apparatus as it enjoyed
immediately before the stopping up and the undertaker must grant to Anglian
Water legal easements reasonably satisfactory to Anglian Water in respect of
such apparatus and access to it, but nothing in this paragraph affects any
right of the undertaker or of Anglian Water to require the removal of that
apparatus under paragraph 40 or the power of the undertaker to carry out works
under paragraph 42.

37.2

Regardless of the temporary stopping up or diversion of any highway under the
powers conferred by article 15 (temporary stopping up and restriction of the
use of streets), Anglian Water is at liberty at all times to take all
necessary access across any such stopped up highway and to execute and do all
such works and things in, upon or under any such highway as may be reasonably
necessary or desirable to enable it to maintain any apparatus which at the
time of the stopping up or diversion was in that highway.

###### Protective works to buildings

38

The undertaker, in the case of the powers conferred by article 21 (protective
work to buildings), must exercise those powers so as not to obstruct or render
less convenient the access to any apparatus.

###### Acquisition of land

39

Regardless of any provision in this Order or anything shown on the land plans,
the undertaker must not acquire any apparatus otherwise than by agreement.

###### Removal of apparatus

40

40.1

If, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this Order, the undertaker
acquires any interest in any land in which any apparatus is placed or requires
that Anglian Water’s apparatus is relocated or diverted, that apparatus must
not be removed under this Part of this Schedule, and any right of Anglian
Water to maintain that apparatus in that land must not (without the prior
written consent of Anglian Water) be extinguished, until:

40.1.a

alternative apparatus has been constructed and is in operation to the
reasonable satisfaction of Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraphs
(2)  to  (8) ; and

40.1.b

facilities and rights have been secured for that alternative apparatus in
accordance with paragraph 41.

40.2

If, for the purpose of executing any works in, on or under any land purchased,
held, appropriated or used under this Order, the undertaker requires the
removal of any apparatus placed in that land, the undertaker must give to
Anglian Water 28 days’ written notice of that requirement, together with a
plan of the work proposed, and of the proposed position of the alternative
apparatus to be provided or constructed and in that case (or if in consequence
of the exercise of any of the powers conferred by this Order an undertaker
reasonably needs to remove any of its apparatus) the undertaker must, subject
to sub-paragraph  (3) , afford to Anglian Water the necessary facilities and
rights for the construction of alternative apparatus in other land of the
undertaker and subsequently for the maintenance of that apparatus.

40.3

If alternative apparatus or any part of such apparatus is to be constructed
elsewhere than in other land of the undertaker, or the undertaker is unable to
afford such facilities and rights as are mentioned in sub-paragraph  (2)  in
the land in which the alternative apparatus or part of such apparatus is to be
constructed Anglian Water must, on receipt of a written notice to that effect
from the undertaker, as soon as reasonably possible use its best endeavours to
obtain the necessary facilities and rights in the land in which the
alternative apparatus is to be constructed.

40.4

Any alternative apparatus to be constructed in land of the undertaker under
this Part of this Schedule must be constructed in such manner and in such line
or situation as may be agreed between Anglian Water and the undertaker or in
default of agreement settled by arbitration in accordance with article  52
(arbitration).

40.5

Anglian Water must, after the alternative apparatus to be provided or
constructed has been agreed or settled by arbitration in accordance with
article  52  (arbitration), and after the grant to Anglian Water of any such
facilities and rights as are referred to in sub-paragraphs  (2)  or  (3) ,
proceed without unnecessary delay to construct and bring into operation the
alternative apparatus and subsequently to remove any apparatus required by the
undertaker to be removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule.

40.6

Regardless of anything in sub-paragraph  (5) , if Anglian Water gives notice
in writing to the undertaker that it desires the undertaker to execute any
work, or part of any work in connection with the construction or removal of
apparatus in any land of the undertaker, or to the extent that Anglian Water
fails to proceed with that work in accordance with sub-paragraph  (5)  or the
undertaker and Anglian Water otherwise agree, that work, instead of being
executed by Anglian Water, must be executed by the undertaker without
unnecessary delay under the superintendence, if given, and to the reasonable
satisfaction of Anglian Water.

40.7

Notice under sub-paragraph  (6)  that Anglian Water desires the undertaker to
execute any work, or part of any work, must be given within 14 days of
agreement under sub-paragraph  (4)  or, in default of agreement, within 14
days of the date of settlement by arbitration under sub-paragraph  (4) .

40.8

If Anglian Water fails either reasonably to approve, or to provide reasons for
its failure to approve along with an indication of what would be required to
make acceptable, any proposed details relating to required removal works under
sub-paragraph  (2)  within 28 days of receiving a notice of the required works
from the undertaker, then such details are deemed to have been approved. For
the avoidance of doubt, any such “deemed consent” does not extend to the
actual undertaking of the removal works, which shall remain the sole
responsibility of Anglian Water or its contractors.

40.9

Whenever alternative apparatus is to be or is being substituted for existing
apparatus, the undertaker shall, before taking or requiring any further step
in such substitution works, use best endeavours to comply with Anglian Water’s
reasonable requests for a reasonable period of time to enable Anglian Water
to:

40.9.a

make network contingency arrangements; or

40.9.b

bring such matters as it may consider reasonably necessary to the attention of
end users of the utility in question.

###### Facilities and rights for alternative apparatus

41

41.1

Where, in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule, the
undertaker affords to a utility undertaker facilities and rights for the
construction and maintenance in land of the undertaker of alternative
apparatus in substitution for apparatus to be removed, those facilities and
rights are to be granted upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
between the undertaker and Anglian Water or in default of agreement settled by
arbitration in accordance with article  52  (arbitration).

41.2

If the facilities and rights to be afforded by the undertaker in respect of
any alternative apparatus, and the terms and conditions subject to which those
facilities and rights are to be granted, are in the opinion of the arbitrator
less favourable on the whole to Anglian Water than the facilities and rights
enjoyed by it in respect of the apparatus to be removed and the terms and
conditions to which those facilities and rights are subject, the arbitrator
must make such provision for the payment of compensation by the undertaker to
Anglian Water as appears to the arbitrator to be reasonable having regard to
all the circumstances of the particular case.

41.3

Such facilities and rights as are set out in this paragraph are deemed to
include any statutory permits granted to the undertaker in respect of the
apparatus in question, whether under the Environmental Permitting Regulations
2010 or other legislation.

###### Retained apparatus

42

42.1

Not less than 28 days before starting the execution of any works in, on or
under any land purchased, held, appropriated or used under this Order that are
near to, or will or may affect, any apparatus (or any means of access to it)
the removal of which has not been required by the undertaker under paragraph
40(2) , the undertaker must submit to Anglian Water a plan of the works to be
executed.

42.2

Those works must be executed only in accordance with the plan submitted under
sub-paragraph  (1)  and in accordance with such reasonable requirements as may
be made in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  by Anglian Water for the
alteration or otherwise for the protection of the apparatus, or for securing
access to it, and Anglian Water is entitled to watch and inspect the execution
of those works.

42.3

Any requirements made by Anglian Water under sub-paragraph  (2)  must be made
within a period of 21 days beginning with the date on which a plan under sub-
paragraph  (1)  is submitted to it.

42.4

If Anglian Water in accordance with sub-paragraph  (3)  and in consequence of
the works proposed by the undertaker, reasonably requires the removal of any
apparatus and gives written notice to the undertaker of that requirement, sub-
paragraphs  (1)  to  (3)  and  (6)  to (8) apply as if the removal of the
apparatus had been required by the undertaker under paragraph  40(2) .

42.5

Nothing in this paragraph precludes the undertaker from submitting at any time
or from time to time, but in no case less than 28 days before commencing the
execution of any works, a new plan instead of the plan previously submitted,
and having done so the provisions of this paragraph apply to and in respect of
the new plan.

42.6

The undertaker is not required to comply with sub-paragraph  (1)  in a case of
emergency but in that case must give to Anglian Water notice as soon as is
reasonably practicable and a plan of those works as soon as reasonably
practicable subsequently and must comply with sub-paragraph  (3)  in so far as
is reasonably practicable in the circumstances and will keep the impact of
those emergency works on Anglian Water’s apparatus, on the operation of its
water and sewerage network and on end-users of the services Anglian Water
provides to a minimum.

42.7

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) , works are deemed to be in land near
Anglian Water’s apparatus (where it is a pipe) if those works fall within the
following distances measured from the medial line of such apparatus:

42.7.a

2.25 metres where the diameter of the pipe is less than 150 millimetres;

42.7.b

3 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 150 and 450 millimetres

42.7.c

4.5 metres where the diameter of the pipe is between 451 and 750 millimetres;
and

42.7.d

6 metres where the diameter of the pipe exceeds 750 millimetres.

###### Expenses and costs

43

43.1

Subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, the undertaker must
repay to Anglian Water all expenses reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in,
or in connection with, the inspection, removal, alteration or protection of
any apparatus or the construction of any new apparatus which may be required
in consequence of the execution of any such works as are referred to in this
Part of the Schedule.

43.2

There must be deducted from any sum payable under subparagraph  (1)  the value
of any apparatus removed under the provisions of this Part of this Schedule
that value being calculated after removal.

43.3

If in accordance with the provisions of this Part of this Schedule—

43.3.a

apparatus of better type, of greater capacity or of greater dimensions is
placed in substitution for existing apparatus of worse type, of smaller
capacity or of smaller dimensions; or

43.3.b

apparatus (whether existing apparatus or apparatus substituted for existing
apparatus) is placed at a depth greater than the depth at which the existing
apparatus was situated, and the placing of apparatus of that type or capacity
or of those dimensions or the placing of apparatus at that depth, as the case
may be, is not agreed by the undertaker or, in default of agreement, is not
determined by arbitration in accordance with article  52  (arbitration) to be
necessary, then, if such placing involves cost in the construction of works
under this Part of this Schedule exceeding that which would have been involved
if the apparatus placed had been of the existing type, capacity or dimensions,
or at the existing depth, as the case may be, the amount which apart from this
sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian Water by virtue of sub-paragraph
(1)  must be reduced by the amount of that excess.

43.4

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (3) —

43.4.a

an extension of apparatus to a length greater than the length of existing
apparatus is not to be treated as a placing of apparatus of greater dimensions
than those of the existing apparatus; and

43.4.b

where the provision of a joint in a pipe or cable is agreed, or is determined
to be necessary, the consequential provision of a jointing chamber or of a
manhole is to be treated as if it also had been agreed or had been so
determined.

43.5

An amount which apart from this sub-paragraph would be payable to Anglian
Water in respect of works by virtue of sub-paragraph  (1) , if the works
include the placing of apparatus provided in substitution for apparatus placed
more than 7 years and 6 months earlier so as to confer on Anglian Water any
financial benefit by deferment of the time for renewal of the apparatus in the
ordinary course, is to be reduced by the amount which represents that benefit.

44

44.1

Subject to sub-paragraphs  (2)  and  (3) , if by reason or in consequence of
the construction of any such works referred to in paragraphs 38 or  40(2) , or
by reason of any subsidence resulting from such development or works, any
damage is caused to any apparatus or alternative apparatus (other than
apparatus the repair of which is not reasonably necessary in view of its
intended removal for the purposes of those works) or property of Anglian
Water, or there is any interruption in any service provided, or in the supply
of any goods, by Anglian Water, the undertaker must—

44.1.a

bear and pay the cost reasonably incurred by Anglian Water in making good such
damage or restoring the supply; and

44.1.b

make reasonable compensation to Anglian Water for any other expenses, loss,
damages, penalty or costs incurred by the undertaker, by reason or in
consequence of any such damage or interruption.

44.2

The fact that any act or thing may have been done by Anglian Water on behalf
of the undertaker or in accordance with a plan approved by Anglian Water or in
accordance with any requirement of Anglian Water or under its supervision does
not, subject to sub-paragraph  (3) , excuse the undertaker from liability
under the provisions of sub-paragraph  (1)  unless Anglian Water fails to
carry out and execute the works properly with due care and attention and in a
skilful and professional like manner or in a manner that does not accord with
the approved plan.

44.3

Nothing in sub-paragraph  (1)  imposes any liability on the undertaker with
respect to any damage or interruption to the extent that it is attributable to
the act, neglect or default of Anglian Water, its officers, servants,
contractors or agents.

44.4

Anglian Water must give the undertaker reasonable notice of any such claim or
demand and no settlement or compromise is to be made, without the consent of
the undertaker (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) who,
if withholding such consent, has the sole conduct of any settlement or
compromise or of any proceedings necessary to resist the claim or demand.

###### Cooperation

45

Where in consequence of the proposed construction of any of the authorised
development, the undertaker or Anglian Water requires the removal of apparatus
under paragraph  40(2)  or Anglian Water makes requirements for the protection
or alteration of apparatus under sub-paragraph  (9) , the undertaker must use
all reasonable endeavours to co-ordinate the execution of the works in the
interests of safety and the efficient and economic execution of the authorised
development and taking into account the need to ensure the safe and efficient
operation of Anglian Water’s undertaking and Anglian Water must use all
reasonable endeavours to co-operate with the undertaker for that purpose.

46

Where the undertaker identifies any apparatus which may belong to or be
maintainable by Anglian Water but which does not appear on any statutory map
kept for the purpose by Anglian Water, it shall inform Anglian Water of the
existence and location of the apparatus as soon as reasonably practicable.

47

Nothing in this Part of this Schedule affects the provisions of any enactment
or agreement regulating the relations between the undertaker and Anglian Water
in respect of any apparatus laid or erected in land belonging to the
undertaker on the date on which this Order is made.

48

Any time period in which an action must be taken in this part of the Schedule
may be amended by written agreement between the undertaker and Anglian Water.

DOCUMENTS, ETC. TO BE CERTIFIED

Articles 2 and 50

(1) Document (2) Document Reference (3) Revision EMP (First Iteration)
TR010038/APP/7.4 Revision 1 [REP7-035] Environmental statement Chapter 2
Figures 7.1 to 7.5 TR010038/APP/6.1 – 6/3 Revision 0 [APP-040, APP-042 to
APP-044, APP-046 to APP-047, APP-049 to APP-052, APP-055 to APP-059, APP-061
to APP-093, APP-095 to APP-133] Revision 1 [AS-005] Revision 1 [REP2-012]
Revision 1 [REP3-012] Revision 1 [REP7-006] Revision 1 [REP3-014] Revision 1
[REP6-030] Revision 1 [REP7-008] Book of Reference TR010038/APP/4.3 Revision 4
[REP9-013] Land plans TR010038/APP/2.3 Revision 2 [REP5-002] Special category
land plans TR010038/APP/2.10 Revision 0 [APP-013] Environmental masterplan
TR010038/APP/6.8 Revision 4 [REP8-011] General arrangement plans
TR010038/APP/2.2 Revision 1 [AS-027] Works plans TR010038/APP/2.4 Revision 2
[AS-028] Rights of way and access plans TR010038/APP/2.5 Revision 3 [REP8-004]
Traffic regulation plans TR010038/APP/2.6 Revision 4 [REP9-004] Engineering
drawings and sections TR010038/APP/2.7 Revision 1 [REP5-003] Classification of
roads plans TR010038/APP/2.11 Revision 4 [REP9-005] Hedgerow plans
TR010038/APP/2.12 Revision 4 [REP9-006] De-trunking plans TR010038/APP/2.13
Revision 2 [AS-033] Outline traffic management plan TR010038/APP/7.5 Revision
0 [APP-144] . . . . . . . . .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order authorises National Highways to improve the A47 between North
Tuddenham to Easton in Norfolk and carry out all associated works.

  The Order permits National Highways to acquire, compulsorily or by
agreement, land and rights in land and to use land for this purpose.

  The Order also makes provision in connection with the maintenance of the
authorised development.

  A copy of the plans, engineering drawings and sections, book of reference,
environmental statement and other documents mentioned in this Order and
certified in accordance with article  50  (certification of documents, etc.)
may be inspected free of charge during working hours at National Highways,
Bridge House, 1 Walnut Tree Close, Guildford, Surrey GU1 4LZ.

