Title: The Network Rail (Essex and Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: This Order confers powers on Network Rail to close or downgrade the level crossings specified in Schedule 2 and for the permanent acquisition of and temporary use of land in connection with the construction of public rights of way and other works in the highway required in connection with the level crossing changes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/651

## The Network Rail (Essex and Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022

    Transport And Works, England       Transport, England

  Made   9th June 2022

  Coming into force   30th June 2022

      An application has been made to the Secretary of State in accordance
with the Transport and Works (Applications and Objections Procedure) (England
and Wales) Rules 2006  for an Order under sections 1 and 5 of the Transport
and Works Act 1992  (“ the 1992 Act ”).     The Secretary of State caused an
inquiry to be held for the purposes of the application pursuant to section 11
of the 1992 Act.     The Secretary of State, having considered the objections
made and not withdrawn and the report of the person who held the inquiry, has
determined to make an Order giving effect to the proposals comprised in the
application with modifications which in the opinion of the Secretary of State
do not make any substantial change in the proposals.     Notice of the
Secretary of State’s determination was published in the London Gazette on 16th
March 2022.         The Secretary of State, in exercise of the powers
conferred by sections 1 and 5 of, and paragraphs 2 to 5, 7, 8, 10, 11 and 16
of Schedule 1 to, the 1992 Act makes the following Order—

### PRELIMINARY

#### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Network Rail (Essex and Others Level Crossing
Reduction) Order 2022 and comes into force on 30th June 2022.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In this Order—

    “ the 1961 Act ” means the Land Compensation Act 1961 ;         “ the 1965
Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase Act 1965 ;         “ the 1980 Act ” means
the Highways Act 1980 ;         “ the 1981 Act ” means the Compulsory Purchase
(Vesting Declarations) Act 1981 ;         “ the 1984 Act ” means the Road
Traffic Regulation Act 1984 ;         “ the 1990 Act ” means the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990 ;         “ the 1991 Act ” means the New Roads and
Street Works Act 1991 ;         “ the 2003 Act ” means the Communications Act
2003 ;         “ address ” includes any number or address used for the
purposes of electronic transmission;         “ authorised works ” means the
works authorised by the Order;         “ book of reference ” means the book of
reference certified by the Secretary of State as the book of reference for the
purposes of this Order;         “ bridleway ” has the same meaning as in the
1980 Act;         “ building ” includes any structure or erection or any part
of a building, structure or erection;         “ byway open to all traffic ”
has the same meaning as in section 66(1) (interpretation of Part 3) of the
Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 ;         “ carriageway ” has the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act;         “ cycle track ” has the same meaning as in
section 329(1)  (further provisions as to interpretation) of the 1980 Act;
“ deposited plans ” means the plans certified by the Secretary of State as the
deposited plans for the purposes of this Order;         “ deposited sections ”
means the sections certified by the Secretary of State as the deposited
sections for the purposes of this Order;         “ electronic transmission ”
means a communication transmitted—       by means of an electronic
communications network; or       by other means but while in electronic form,
and in this definition “ electronic communications network ” has the same
meaning as in section 32(1)  (meaning of electronic communications and
networks and services) of the 2003 Act;         “ footpath ” and “ footway ”
have the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;         “ highway authority ” has
the same meaning as in the 1980 Act;         “ limits of deviation ” means the
limits of deviation for the scheduled works shown on the deposited plans;
“ maintain ” includes inspect, repair, adjust, alter, remove, reconstruct and
replace and maintenance is to be construed accordingly;         “ Network Rail
” means Network Rail Infrastructure Limited (company registration number
02904587) whose registered office is at 1 Eversholt Street, London NW1 2DN;
“ Order limits ” means the limits of deviation and the limits of land to be
acquired or used shown on the deposited plans;         “ owner ”, in relation
to land, has the same meaning as in section 7 (interpretation) of the
Acquisition of Land Act 1981 ;         “ restricted byway ” has the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act;         “ scheduled works ” means the works
specified in Schedule 1 (scheduled works) or any part of them;         “
statutory undertaker ” means—       any person who is a statutory undertaker
for the purposes of the 1990 Act; and       any public communications provider
within the meaning of section 151(1) (interpretation of Chapter 1) of the 2003
Act;             “ street ” includes part of a street;         “ street
authority ”, in relation to a street, has the same meaning as in Part 3
(street works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act; and         “ the
tribunal ” means the Lands Chamber of the Upper Tribunal.

2.2

All distances, directions and lengths referred to in this Order are
approximate and are taken to be measured between the points shown on the
deposited plans.

2.3

References in this Order to points identified by letters and numbers are
construed as references to points so shown on the deposited plans.

2.4

References in this Order to rights over land include references to rights to
do, or to place and maintain, anything in, on or under land or in the airspace
over its surface.

2.5

References in this Order to numbered plots are references to plot numbers as
shown on the deposited plans.

#### Application of the 1991 Act

3

3.1

Works executed under this Order in relation to a highway which consists of or
includes a carriageway are to be treated for the purposes of Part 3 (street
works in England and Wales) of the 1991 Act as major transport works if—

3.1.a

they are of a description mentioned in any of paragraphs (a), (c) to (e), (g)
and (h) of section 86(3) (which defines what highway authority works are major
highway works) of that Act; or

3.1.b

they are works which, had they been executed by the highway authority, might
have been carried out in exercise of the powers conferred by section 64  (dual
carriageways and roundabouts) of the 1980 Act.

3.2

The provisions of the 1991 Act mentioned in paragraph (3) (which, together
with other provisions of that Act, apply in relation to the carrying out of
street works) and any regulations made or code of practice issued or approved
under those provisions apply (with the necessary modifications) in relation to
any stopping up, alteration or diversion of a street of a temporary nature by
Network Rail under the powers conferred by article  9  (temporary stopping up
of streets) and the carrying out of works under article  8  (power to execute
street works) whether or not the stopping up, alteration or diversion, or the
carrying out of such works, constitutes street works within the meaning of
that Act.

3.3

The provisions of the 1991 Act  referred to in paragraph (2) are—

      section 59  (general duty of street authority to co-ordinate works);
section 60 (general duty of undertakers to co-operate);           section 68
(facilities to be afforded to street authority);           section 69 (works
likely to affect other apparatus in the street);           section 76
(liability for cost of temporary traffic regulation);           section 77
(liability for cost of use of alternative route); and

all such other provisions as apply for the purposes of the provisions
mentioned above.

3.4

Nothing in article  10  (construction and maintenance of new or altered
streets)—

3.4.a

prejudices the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways)
of the 1991 Act; and Network Rail is not, by reason of any duty under that
article to maintain a street, to be taken to be a street authority in relation
to that street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

3.4.b

has effect in relation to street works with regard to which the provisions of
Part 3 of the 1991 Act apply.

#### Disapplication of legislative provisions

4

4.1

The following provisions do not apply in relation to any works executed under
the powers conferred by this Order—

4.1.a

regulation 12(1)(a) (requirement for environmental permit) of the
Environmental Permitting (England and Wales) Regulations 2016  in relation to
the carrying out of a relevant flood risk activity;

4.1.b

section 23 (prohibition on obstacles etc. in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 ;

4.1.c

the provisions of any byelaws made under, or having effect as if made under,
section 66  (powers to make byelaws) of the Land Drainage Act 1991, which
require consent or approval for the carrying out of the works; and

4.1.d

the Neighbourhood Planning Act 2017  in so far as it relates to temporary
occupation of land under articles  21  (temporary use of land for construction
of works) and  22  (temporary use of land for maintenance of works).

4.2

On completion of the relevant authorised works—

4.2.a

section 10 of the London, Tilbury and Southend Extension Railway Act 1852  is
disapplied as it relates to level crossings at—

4.2.a.i

Ferry in the Borough of Castle Point, County of Essex;

4.2.a.ii

No. 131 in Thurrock; and

4.2.a.iii

Howells Farm in Thurrock; and

4.2.b

the Railtrack Long Green Level Crossing Order 1997; and

4.2.c

the Network Rail Johnsons Level Crossing Order 2003,

are revoked.

### CROSSINGS

#### Power to construct and maintain works

5

5.1

Network Rail may construct and maintain the scheduled works.

5.2

Subject to article  6  (power to deviate) the scheduled works may only be
constructed in the lines or situations shown on the deposited plans and in
accordance with the levels shown on the deposited sections.

5.3

Subject to paragraph (5), Network Rail may construct and maintain within the
Order limits such works as are required—

5.3.a

to provide the public rights of way to the extent specified in column (4) of
Part 1 of Schedule 2 (closure of level crossings);

5.3.b

in connection with the extinguishment of the rights of way specified in column
(3) in Parts 1 and 2 of Schedule 2;

5.3.c

to provide the private rights of access to the extent specified in column (1)
of Schedule 3 (land in which private rights of access may be acquired); and

5.3.d

in connection with the redesignation of highways specified in columns (3) and
(4) and to the extent specified in column (2) of Schedule 4 (redesignation of
highways);

including—

5.3.e

works to lay out footpaths, footways, bridleways and cycle tracks, including
any surfacing, fencing, stiles, gates, signs, ramps, steps, other means of
access, and mounting blocks;

5.3.f

works or other operations, for the purposes of drainage and flood prevention,
including embankments, including ground reprofiling and culverts;

5.3.g

works or other operations to level or stabilise the condition of any land,
including ground reprofiling and embankments;

5.3.h

works to install or alter the position of apparatus, including mains, sewers,
drains and cables;

5.3.i

works in the highway including provision of benches and handrails, provision
of alteration to or removal of lighting, bollards and other traffic restraint
systems, signage and signalling and installation of road side equipment,

or other conveniences as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of the
provision of or extinguishment of the rights of way or redesignation of
highways.

5.4

Subject to paragraph (5), Network Rail may carry out such other works (of
whatever nature) as may be necessary or expedient for the purposes of, or for
purposes ancillary to, the construction of the scheduled works and authorised
works described in paragraph (3).

5.5

Paragraphs (3) and (4) only authorise the carrying out or maintenance of works
outside the limits of deviation if such works are carried out on—

5.5.a

land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 5 (land in which only new
rights etc., may be acquired) for the purposes specified in column (3) of that
Schedule; or

5.5.b

land specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 6 (land of which temporary
possession may be taken) for the purposes specified in column (3) of that
Schedule.

5.6

Network Rail may, within the Order limits—

5.6.a

carry out and maintain landscaping and other works to mitigate any adverse
effects of the construction, maintenance and operation of the authorised works
(other than works authorised by this paragraph); and

5.6.b

carry out and maintain works for the benefit or protection of land affected by
the authorised works (other than works authorised by this paragraph).

#### Power to deviate

6

In constructing or maintaining any of the scheduled works, Network Rail may—

6.a

deviate laterally from the lines or situations shown on the deposited plans to
the extent of the limits of deviation for that work; and

6.b

deviate vertically from the levels shown on the deposited sections—

6.b.i

to any extent upwards not exceeding 3 metres; or

6.b.ii

to any extent downwards as may be found to be necessary or convenient.

#### Power to alter layout etc. of streets

7

7.1

Network Rail may for the purposes of the authorised works alter the layout of,
or carry out any works in, the street specified in columns (1) and (2) of
Schedule 7 (streets subject to alteration of layout) in the manner specified
in relation to that street in column (3) of that Schedule.

7.2

Without limitation on the scope of the specific powers conferred by paragraph
(1) but subject to paragraph (3), Network Rail may, for the purposes of
constructing and maintaining any authorised work, alter the layout of any
street within the Order limits and the layout of any street having a junction
with such a street; and, without limitation on the scope of that power,
Network Rail may—

7.2.a

increase the width of the carriageway of the street by reducing the width of
any kerb, footpath, footway, cycle track or verge within the street;

7.2.b

alter the level, create or increase the width of any such kerb, footpath,
footway, bridleway, cycle track or verge;

7.2.c

reduce the width of the carriageway of the street; and

7.2.d

provide pedestrian refuges.

7.3

Network Rail must restore to the reasonable satisfaction of the street
authority any street which has been temporarily altered under this article.

7.4

The powers conferred by paragraph (2) are not to be exercised without the
consent of the street authority, but such consent must not be unreasonably
withheld.

7.5

If within 28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph (4)
a street authority fails to notify Network Rail of its decision or refuses
consent without giving any grounds for its refusal that street authority is
deemed to have granted consent.

#### Power to execute street works

8

8.1

Network Rail may, for the purposes of the authorised works, enter on any of
the streets specified in Schedule 8 (streets subject to street works) as are
within the Order limits to the extent necessary and may—

8.1.a

break up or open the street, or any sewer, drain or tunnel under it;

8.1.b

place apparatus in the street;

8.1.c

maintain apparatus in the street or change its position; and

8.1.d

execute any works required for or incidental to any works referred to in sub-
paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).

8.2

In this article “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as in Part 3 of the 1991
Act.

#### Temporary stopping up of streets

9

9.1

Network Rail, during and for the purposes of the execution of the authorised
works, may temporarily stop up, alter or divert any street and may for any
reasonable time—

9.1.a

divert the traffic from the street; and

9.1.b

subject to paragraph (3), prevent all persons from passing along the street.

9.2

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), Network Rail may use any
street stopped up under the powers conferred by this article within the Order
limits as a temporary working site.

9.3

Network Rail must provide reasonable access for pedestrians going to or from
premises abutting on a street affected by the temporary stopping up,
alteration or diversion of a street under this article if there would
otherwise be no such access.

9.4

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph (1), Network Rail may temporarily
stop up, alter or divert the streets specified in columns (1) and (2) of
Schedule 9 (streets to be temporarily stopped up) to the extent specified, by
reference to the letters and numbers shown on the deposited plans, in column
(3) of that Schedule.

9.5

Network Rail must not exercise the powers conferred by this article—

9.5.a

in relation to any street specified as mentioned in paragraph (4) without
first consulting the street authority; and

9.5.b

in relation to any other street without the consent of the street authority
which may attach reasonable conditions to any consent, but such consent must
not be unreasonably withheld.

9.6

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

9.7

If within 28 days of receiving an application for consent under paragraph
(5)(b) a street authority fails to notify Network Rail of its decision or
refuses consent without giving any grounds for its refusal that street
authority is deemed to have granted consent.

#### Construction and maintenance of new or altered streets

10

10.1

This article applies to streets which are not a byway open to all traffic,
restricted byway, bridleway or footpath.

10.2

Where a street is altered or diverted under this Order, the altered or
diverted part of the street must, when completed to the reasonable
satisfaction of the street authority, unless otherwise agreed with the street
authority, be maintained by and at the expense of Network Rail for a period of
12 months from its completion and from the expiry of that period by and at the
expense of the street authority.

10.3

Paragraph (2) does not apply in relation to the structure of any bridge or
tunnel carrying a street over or under any railway of Network Rail and except
as provided in those paragraphs Network Rail is not liable to maintain the
surface of any street under or over which the scheduled works are constructed,
or the immediate approaches to any such street.

10.4

In any action against Network Rail in respect of loss or damage resulting from
any failure by it to maintain a street under this article, it is a defence
(without affecting any other defence or the application of the law relating to
contributory negligence) to prove that Network Rail had taken such care as in
all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that the part of the
street to which the action relates was not dangerous to traffic.

10.5

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (4), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

10.5.a

the character of the street and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

10.5.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a street of that character and
used by such traffic;

10.5.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the street;

10.5.d

whether Network Rail knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the street to which the action relates was
likely to cause danger to users of the street; and

10.5.e

where Network Rail could not reasonably have been expected to repair that part
of the street before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of its
condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that
Network Rail had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the street to which the action relates unless it is
also proved that Network Rail had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the street and that the
competent person had carried out those instructions.

10.6

Nothing in this article—

10.6.a

affects the operation of section 87 (prospectively maintainable highways) of
the 1991 Act; and Network Rail is not by reason of any duty under this article
to maintain a street to be taken to be a street authority in relation to that
street for the purposes of Part 3 of that Act; or

10.6.b

has effect in relation to the street works with regard to which the provisions
of Part 3 of the 1991 Act apply.

#### Access to works

11

11.1

Network Rail may, for the purposes of the authorised works—

11.1.a

form and lay out means of access, or improve existing means of access, in the
locations specified in columns (1) and (2) of Schedule 10 (access to works);
and

11.1.b

with the approval of the highway authority, form and lay out such other means
of access or improve existing means of access, at such locations within the
Order limits as Network Rail reasonably requires for the purposes of the
authorised works.

11.2

If a highway authority fails to notify Network Rail of its decision within 28
days of receiving an application for approval under paragraph (1)(b), that
highway authority is deemed to have granted approval.

#### Highways subject to redesignation

12

12.1

Subject to the provisions of this article, the highways specified in column
(2) of Schedule 4 (redesignation of highways) shall, on completion of works,
cease to be highways of the description specified on the definitive map and
statement as specified in column (3) and are designated as highways as
described in column (4) of Schedule 4.

12.2

In each case where a highway has been redesignated, the redesignation is to
have effect as if that highway had been stopped up and immediately
redesignated as described in column (4) of Schedule 4.

12.3

Expressions used in this article and in the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981
have the same meaning in this article as in that Act.

#### Closure of level crossings subject to opening of new rights of way

13

13.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (5), the level crossings specified in column (2)
of Part 1 of Schedule 2 (closure of level crossings) are stopped-up and
discontinued.

13.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (5), upon the stopping up and discontinuance of
the level crossings referred to in paragraph (1)—

13.2.a

any rights of way over those crossings are extinguished to the extent
specified in column (2) of Part 1 in Schedule 2; and

13.2.b

any public rights of way specified in column (3) of Part 1 of Schedule 2 are
extinguished to the extent specified, by reference to the numbers and letters
shown on the deposited plans.

13.3

Paragraphs (1) and (2) are not to have effect until in respect of each level
crossing in Part 1 of Schedule 2—

13.3.a

the new highway specified in column (4) has been constructed and completed, to
the extent specified by reference to the numbers and letters shown on the
deposited plans, to the reasonable satisfaction of the highway authority in
accordance with article  15  (creation and maintenance of new highway) and is
open for use; and

13.3.b

such other alterations to existing highways authorised by this Order, as
agreed with the highway authority, have been made.

13.4

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

13.5

This article does not extinguish the rights of statutory undertakers.

#### Closure of level crossings

14

14.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) and, the level crossings listed in column
(2) of Part 2 of Schedule 2 (closure of level crossings) are stopped-up and
discontinued.

14.2

Upon the stopping up and discontinuance of the level crossings referred to in
paragraph (1)—

14.2.a

any rights of way over those crossings are extinguished; and

14.2.b

any public rights of way specified in column (3) of Part 2 of Schedule 2 are
extinguished to the extent specified, by reference to the numbers and letters
shown on the deposited plans.

14.3

Any person who suffers loss by the suspension or extinguishment of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

14.4

This article does not apply so as to extinguish the rights of statutory
undertakers to maintain their apparatus.

#### Creation and maintenance of new highway

15

15.1

The new highways specified in column (4) of Part 1 in Schedule 2 (closure of
level crossings) are to be completed to the reasonable satisfaction of the
highway authority and are to be maintained by and at the expense of Network
Rail for a period of 12 months from their completion and after the expiry of
that period by and at the expense of the highway authority.

15.2

On completion of each new highway in accordance with paragraph (1), and
subject to article  29  (traffic regulation), it is to have the designation
specified in column (4) of Part 1 in Schedule 2.

15.3

Section 28  (compensation for loss caused by public path creation order) of
the 1980 Act is to apply to each new highway specified in column (4) of Part 1
in Schedule 2 as if that new highway had been created by a public path
creation order.

15.4

Section 28 of the 1980 Act has effect with the modifications mentioned in
paragraphs (5) to (7).

15.5

In sub-section (1), substitute  “Network Rail”  for “the authority by whom the
Order was made”.

15.6

For sub-section (2), substitute—

15.6.2

A claim for compensation under this section is to be made to Network Rail in
writing before the end of the period of 6 months beginning with the day on
which the public right of way first becomes exercisable and is to be served on
Network Rail by delivering it at, or by sending it by pre-paid post to the
registered office of Network Rail Infrastructure Limited.

15.7

Sub-section (3) is omitted.

15.8

For the purposes of paragraphs (3) to (7), section 307 (disputes as to
compensation which are to be determined by Upper Tribunal and related
provisions) of the 1980 Act, in its application to section 28 by virtue of
section 307(1), is to have effect as if in sub-section (2) for “the authority
from whom the compensation in question is claimed”, the words “Network Rail”
are substituted.

15.9

In any action against Network Rail in respect of loss or damage resulting from
any failure by it to maintain the new highway, it is a defence (without
affecting any other defence or the application of the law relating to
contributory negligence) to prove that Network Rail had taken such care as in
all the circumstances was reasonably required to secure that the part of the
new highway to which the action relates was not dangerous to traffic.

15.10

For the purposes of a defence under paragraph (9), the court must in
particular have regard to the following matters—

15.10.a

the character of the new highway and the traffic which was reasonably to be
expected to use it;

15.10.b

the standard of maintenance appropriate for a highway of that character and
used by such traffic;

15.10.c

the state of repair in which a reasonable person would have expected to find
the new highway;

15.10.d

whether Network Rail knew, or could reasonably have been expected to know,
that the condition of the part of the new highway to which the action relates
was likely to cause danger to users of the new highway;

15.10.e

where Network Rail could not reasonably have been expected to repair that part
of the new highway before the cause of action arose, what warning notices of
its condition had been displayed,

but for the purposes of such a defence it is not relevant to prove that
Network Rail had arranged for a competent person to carry out or supervise the
maintenance of the part of the new highway to which the action relates unless
it is also proved that Network Rail had given the competent person proper
instructions with regard to the maintenance of the new highway and that the
competent person had carried out those instructions .

15.11

The new highways are to be treated as completed to the satisfaction of the
highway authority for the purpose of paragraph (1) if it fails to reply to a
request for certification that it is satisfied with the work within 28 days of
receiving the request.

15.12

Where any highway created under this article passes over a scheduled work, the
highway extends to include the scheduled work.

#### Supplemental powers

##### Discharge of water

16

16.1

Network Rail may use any watercourse or any public sewer or drain for the
drainage of water in connection with the construction, operation or
maintenance of the authorised works and for that purpose may lay down, take up
and alter pipes and may, on any land within the Order limits, make openings
into, and connections with, the watercourse, public sewer or drain.

16.2

Any dispute arising from the making of connections to or the use of a public
sewer or drain by Network Rail under paragraph (1) is to be determined as if
it were a dispute under section 106 (right to communicate with public sewers)
of the Water Industry Act 1991 .

16.3

Network Rail must not discharge any water into any watercourse, public sewer
or drain except with the consent of the person to whom it belongs; and such
consent may be given subject to such terms and conditions as that person may
reasonably impose, but must not be unreasonably withheld.

16.4

Network Rail must not make any opening into any public sewer or drain except—

16.4.a

in accordance with plans approved by the person to whom the sewer or drain
belongs, but such approval must not be unreasonably withheld; and

16.4.b

where that person has been given the opportunity to supervise the making of
the opening.

16.5

Network Rail must not, in the exercise of the powers conferred by this
article, damage or interfere with the bed or banks of any watercourse forming
part of a main river.

16.6

Network Rail must take such steps as are reasonably practicable to secure that
any water discharged into a watercourse or public sewer or drain under the
powers conferred by this article is as free as may be practicable from gravel,
soil or other solid substance, oil or matter in suspension.

16.7

Nothing in this article overrides the requirement for an environmental permit
under regulation 12(1)(b) of the Environmental Permitting (England and Wales)
Regulations 2016 .

16.8

If a person who receives an application for consent or approval fails to
notify Network Rail of a decision within 28 days of receiving an application
for consent under paragraph (3) or approval under paragraph (4)(a) that person
is deemed to have granted consent or given approval, as the case may be.

16.9

In this article—

16.9.a

“ public sewer or drain ” means a sewer or drain which belongs to a sewerage
undertaker, the Environment Agency, an internal drainage board, or a local
authority; and

16.9.b

other expressions, excluding watercourse, used both in this article and in the
Water Resources Act 1991  have the same meaning as in that Act.

##### Power to survey and investigate land

17

17.1

Network Rail may for the purposes of this Order—

17.1.a

survey or investigate any land shown within the Order limits;

17.1.b

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), make trial holes in such
positions on the land as Network Rail thinks fit to investigate the nature of
the surface layer and subsoil and remove soil samples;

17.1.c

without limitation on the scope of sub-paragraph (a), carry out ecological or
archaeological investigations on such land;

17.1.d

place on, leave on and remove from the land apparatus for use in connection
with the survey and investigation of land and making of trial holes; and

17.1.e

enter on the land for the purpose of exercising the powers conferred by sub-
paragraphs (a) to (d).

17.2

No land may be entered or equipment placed or left on or removed from the land
under paragraph (1) unless at least 7 days’ notice has been served on every
owner and occupier of the land.

17.3

Notice given in accordance with paragraph (2) must include—

17.3.a

a statement of the recipient’s rights under paragraph (14); and

17.3.b

a copy of any warrant issued under paragraph (7).

17.4

If Network Rail proposes to do any of the following, the notice must include
details of what is proposed—

17.4.a

searching, boring or excavating;

17.4.b

leaving apparatus on the land;

17.4.c

taking samples; and

17.4.d

an aerial survey.

17.5

If Network Rail obtains a warrant after giving notice in accordance with
paragraph (2) it must five a copy of the warrant to whom it gave that notice.

17.6

Any person entering land under this article on behalf of Network Rail—

17.6.a

must, if so required, before or after entering the land produce written
evidence of authority to do so including any warrant issued under paragraph
(7);

17.6.b

may not use force unless a justice of the peace has issued a warrant under
paragraph (7) authorising the person to do so;

17.6.c

may take onto the land such vehicles and equipment as are necessary to carry
out the survey or investigation or to make the trial holes;

17.6.d

may only enter and survey at a reasonable time; and

17.6.e

must, if the land is unoccupied or the occupier is absent from the land when
the person enters it, leave it secure against trespassers as when the person
entered it.

17.7

A justice of the peace may issue a warrant authorising a person to use force
in the exercise of the power conferred by this article if satisfied—

17.7.a

that another person has prevented or is likely to prevent the exercise of that
power; and

17.7.b

that it is reasonable to use force in the exercise of that power.

17.8

The force that may be authorised by the warrant is limited to that which is
reasonably necessary.

17.9

A warrant authorising the person to use force must specify the number of
occasions on which Network Rail can rely on the warrant when entering and
surveying or valuing land.

17.10

The number specified must be the number which the justice of the peace
considers appropriate to achieve the purpose for which the entry and survey or
valuation are required.

17.11

Any evidence in proceedings for a warrant under this article must be given on
oath.

17.12

No trial holes are to be made under this article—

17.12.a

in a carriageway or footway without the consent of the highway authority; or

17.12.b

in a private street without the consent of the street authority,

but such consent must not be unreasonably withheld.

17.13

Network Rail must compensate the owners and occupiers of the land for any loss
or damage arising by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by this
article, such compensation to be determined, in case of dispute, as if it were
a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

17.14

If either a highway authority or a street authority which receives an
application for consent fails to notify Network Rail of its decision within 28
days of receiving the application for consent—

17.14.a

under paragraph (12)(a) in the case of a highway authority; or

17.14.b

under paragraph (12)(b) in the case of a street authority,

that authority is deemed to have granted consent.

### ACQUISITION AND POSSESSION OF LAND

#### Powers of acquisition

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

18

18.1

Part 1 of the 1965 Act, in so far as not modified by or inconsistent with the
provisions of this Order, applies to the acquisition of any interests in land
under this Order—

18.1.a

as it applies to a compulsory purchase to which the Acquisition of Land Act
1981  applies; and

18.1.b

as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order under that Act.

18.2

Part 1 of the 1965 Act as so applied has effect with the following
modifications.

18.3

Omit section 4 (which provides a time limit for compulsory purchase of land).

18.4

In section 4A(1)  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23
of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to the High Court in respect
of compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 4”,
substitute  “section 22 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 (validity of
orders under section 1 or 3), the five year period mentioned in article 27
(time limit for exercise of powers of acquisition) of the Network Rail (Essex
and Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022.” .

18.5

In section 11(1B)  (power of entry) in a case where the notice to treat
relates only to the acquisition of an easement or other right over land, for
“3 months” substitute  “1 month” .

18.6

In section 11A  (powers of entry: further notices of entry)—

18.6.a

in subsection (1)(a), after “land” insert  “under that provision” ; and

18.6.b

in subsection (2), after “land” insert  “under that provision.” .

18.7

In section 22(2) (expiry of time limit for exercise of compulsory purchase
power not to affect acquisition of interests omitted from purchase), for
“section 4 of this Act” substitute  “article 27 (time limit for exercise of
powers of acquisition) of the Network Rail (Essex and Others Level Crossing
Reduction) Order 2022.” .

18.8

In Schedule 2A  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in notice to
treat)—

18.8.a

omit paragraphs 1(2) and 14(2); and

18.8.b

after paragraph 29 insert—

############# INTERPRETATION

18.8.b.30

In this Schedule, references to entering on and taking possession of land do
not include doing so under articles  21  (temporary use of land for
construction works) and  22  (temporary use of land for maintenance of works)
of the Network Rail (Essex and Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022.

.

##### Application of the 1981 Act

19

19.1

The 1981 Act applies as if this Order were a compulsory purchase order.

19.2

The 1981 Act, as so applied by paragraph (1), has effect with the following
modifications.

19.3

In section 5 (earliest date for execution of declaration), in subsection (2),
omit the words from “, and this subsection” to the end.

19.4

Omit section 5A  (time limit for general vesting declaration).

19.5

In section 5B  (extension of time limit during challenge) for “section 23 of
the Acquisition of Land Act 1981 (application to High Court in respect of
compulsory purchase order), the three year period mentioned in section 5A”
substitute  “section 22 of the Transport and Works Act 1992 (validity of
orders under section 1 or 3), the five year period mentioned in article 27
(time limit for exercise of powers of acquisition) of the Network Rail (Essex
and Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022” .

19.6

In section 6  (notices after execution of declaration),in subsection (1)(b),
for “section 15 of, or paragraph 6 of Schedule 1 to the Acquisition of Land
Act 1981” substitute  “section 14A of the Transport and Works Act 1992” .

19.7

In section 7  (constructive notice to treat), in subsection (1)(a), omit “(as
modified by section 4 of the Acquisition of Land Act 1981)”.

19.8

In Schedule A1  (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in general
vesting declaration), omit paragraph 1(2).

19.9

References to the 1965 Act are construed as references to that Act as applied
to the acquisition of land under article 18 (application of Part 1 of the 1965
Act).

##### Power to acquire new rights

20

20.1

Network Rail may acquire compulsorily such rights of access or other easements
specified in column (2) of Schedule 3 (land in which private rights of access
may be acquired) to the extent specified in column (1) of that Schedule as may
be required for the benefit of the land specified in column (2) of that
Schedule by creating them as well as by acquiring rights of access or other
easements already in existence.

20.2

Network Rail may acquire compulsorily such easements or other rights over the
land specified in column (2) of Schedule 5 (land in which only new rights
etc., may be acquired) as may be required for the purposes specified in column
(3) of that Schedule, by creating them as well as by acquiring easements or
other rights already in existence.

20.3

Subject to Schedule 2A (counter-notice requiring purchase of land not in
notice to treat) to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8) of Schedule
12 (modification of compensation and compulsory purchasing enactments for
creation of new rights) where Network Rail acquires a right over land under
paragraphs (1) or (2), Network Rail is not required to acquire a greater
interest in that land.

20.4

Schedule 12 has effect for the purpose of modifying the enactments relating to
compensation, and the provisions of the 1965 Act, in their application in
relation to the compulsory acquisition under this article of a right over land
by the creation of a new right.

#### Temporary possession or use of land

##### Temporary use of land for construction of works

21

21.1

— Network Rail may in connection with the carrying out of the authorised works
enter upon and take temporary possession of the land specified in columns (1)
and ( 2) of Schedule 6 (land of which temporary possession may be taken) for
the purposes specified in relation to that land in column (3) of that
Schedule.

21.2

Not less than 14 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article Network Rail must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers of the land.

21.3

Network Rail may not, without the agreement of the owners of the land, remain
in possession of any land under this article after the end of the period of
one year beginning with the date of completion of the authorised works for the
purposes of which temporary possession of that land was taken.

21.4

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, Network Rail must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land; but
Network Rail is not required to—

21.4.a

replace a building removed in connection with the carrying out of the
authorised works; or

21.4.b

restore the land on which any permanent works have been constructed under
article  5  (power to construct and maintain works).

21.5

Network Rail must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

21.6

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (5),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

21.7

Without affecting article 36 (no double recovery), nothing in this article
affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2)  (further
provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of the 1965 Act or under
any other enactment in respect of loss or damage for which compensation is
payable under paragraph (5).

21.8

Where Network Rail takes possession of land under this article, it is not
required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

21.9

Section 13  (refusal to give possession to the acquiring authority) of the
1965 Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same
extent as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by
virtue of article 18 (application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act).

##### Temporary use of land for maintenance of works

22

22.1

Subject to paragraph (2), at any time during the maintenance period relating
to any of the authorised works, Network Rail may—

22.1.a

enter upon and take temporary possession of any land within the Order limits
if such possession is reasonably required for the purpose of maintaining the
authorised works; and

22.1.b

construct such temporary works (including the provision of means of access) as
may be reasonably necessary for that purpose.

22.2

Paragraph (1) does not authorise Network Rail to take temporary possession of—

22.2.a

any house or garden belonging to a house; or

22.2.b

any building (other than a house) if it is for the time being occupied.

22.3

Not less than 28 days before entering upon and taking temporary possession of
land under this article Network Rail must serve notice of the intended entry
on the owners and occupiers or the land.

22.4

Network Rail may only remain in possession of land under this article for so
long as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the maintenance of works for
which possession of the land was taken.

22.5

Before giving up possession of land of which temporary possession has been
taken under this article, Network Rail must remove all temporary works and
restore the land to the reasonable satisfaction of the owners of the land.

22.6

Network Rail must pay compensation to the owners and occupiers of land of
which temporary possession is taken under this article for any loss or damage
arising from the exercise in relation to the land of the powers conferred by
this article.

22.7

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (6),
or as to the amount of the compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

22.8

Without affecting article 36 (no double recovery), nothing in this article
affects any liability to pay compensation under section 10(2) (further
provision as to compensation for injurious affection) of the 1965 Act or under
any other enactment in respect of loss or damage arising from the execution of
any works, other than loss or damage for which compensation is payable under
paragraph (6).

22.9

Where Network Rail takes possession of land under this article, it is not
required to acquire the land or any interest in it.

22.10

Section 13 (refusal to give possession to the acquiring authority) of the 1965
Act applies to the temporary use of land under this article to the same extent
as it applies to the compulsory acquisition of land under this Order by virtue
of article  18  (application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act).

22.11

In this article “ the maintenance period ” in relation to an authorised work
means the period of one year beginning with the date on which the work is
opened for use.

#### Compensation

##### Disregard of certain interests and improvements

23

23.1

In assessing the compensation payable to any person on the acquisition from
that person of any land under this Order, the tribunal must not take into
account—

23.1.a

any interest in land; or

23.1.b

any enhancement of the value of any interest in land by reason of any building
erected, works executed or improvement or alteration made on relevant land,

if the tribunal is satisfied that the creation of the interest, the erection
of the building, the execution of the works or the making of the improvement
or alteration was not reasonably necessary and was undertaken with a view to
obtaining compensation or increased compensation.

23.2

In paragraph (1) “ relevant land ” means the land acquired from the person
concerned or any other land with which that person is, or was at the time when
the building was erected, the works executed or the improvement or alteration
made, directly or indirectly concerned.

#### Supplementary

##### Extinction or suspension of private rights of way

24

24.1

All private rights of way over land subject to compulsory acquisition under
this Order are extinguished—

24.1.a

as from the date of acquisition of the land by Network Rail, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

24.1.b

on the date of entry on the land by Network Rail under section 11(1)  (powers
of entry) of the 1965 Act,

whichever is the sooner.

24.2

All private rights of way over land owned by Network Rail which, being within
the Order limits, is required for the purposes of this Order are extinguished
on the appropriation of the land for any of those purposes by Network Rail .

24.3

Subject to the provisions of this article, all private rights of way over land
subject to the compulsory acquisition of rights under this Order are
extinguished in so far as their continuance would be inconsistent with the
exercise of the right—

24.3.a

as from the date of the acquisition of the right by Network Rail, whether
compulsorily or by agreement; or

24.3.b

on the date of entry on the land by Network Rail under section 11(1) of the
1965 Act,

whichever is the sooner.

24.4

Subject to paragraph (6), all private rights of way over land of which Network
Rail takes temporary possession under this Order are suspended and
unenforceable for as long as Network Rail remains in lawful possession of the
land.

24.5

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment or suspension of any private
right of way under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined,
in case of dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

24.6

This article does not apply in relation to any right of way to which section
271 or 272  (extinguishment of rights of statutory undertakers etc.) of the
1990 Act applies.

24.7

Paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4) have effect subject to—

24.7.a

any notice given by Network Rail before—

24.7.a.i

the completion of the acquisition of;

24.7.a.ii

Network Rail’s appropriation of;

24.7.a.iii

Network Rail’s entry onto; or

24.7.a.iv

Network Rail’s taking temporary possession of,

the land, that any or all of those paragraphs do not apply to any right of way
specified in the notice; and

24.7.b

any agreement made between Network Rail and the person in or to whom the right
of way in question is vested or belongs which makes reference to this article;
whether that agreement was made before or after any of the events mentioned in
sub-paragraph (a), or before or after the coming into force of this Order.

24.8

If any such agreement as is mentioned in sub-paragraph (7)(b) is expressed to
have effect also for the benefit of those deriving title from or under the
person in or to whom the right of way in question is vested or belongs, it is
effective in respect of the persons so deriving title, whether the title was
derived before or after the making of the agreement.

##### Extinguishment of private rights over accommodation crossings

25

25.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4) all private rights of way (if any) over the
level crossing specified in paragraph (2) are extinguished.

25.2

The level crossing referred to in paragraph (1) is Ugley Lane crossing between
points P097 and P098 in the Parish of Henham, District of Uttlesford, County
of Essex.

25.3

Paragraph (1) must not take effect with respect to the extinguishment of the
private rights of way by means of the level crossing specified in paragraph
(2) until the authorised works relating to that crossing have been completed.

25.4

Any person who suffers loss by the extinguishment of any private right of way
under this article is entitled to compensation to be determined, in case of
dispute, as if it were a dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

##### Grant of rights over level crossings

26

26.1

The level crossings specified in paragraph (2) are subject to continued rights
of access for vehicular traffic for authorised users.

26.2

The level crossings referred to in paragraph (1) are—

26.2.a

Trinity Lane crossing between points R001 and R002 in the Borough of
Broxbourne, County of Hertfordshire; and

26.2.b

Parsonage Lane crossing between points P147 and P148 in the Parish of
Margaretting, City of Chelmsford, County of Essex.

26.3

In this article, “ authorised user ” means any person to whom Network Rail
grants a permit on written request to use any crossing referred to in
paragraph (2) for such purposes or to access such land as may be specified in
the permit on such terms and conditions as Network Rail may reasonably
specify.

##### Time limit for exercise of powers of acquisition

27

27.1

After the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which this
Order comes into force—

27.1.a

no notice to treat is to be served under Part 1 of the 1965 Act as applied to
the acquisition of land by article  18  (application of Part 1 of the 1965
Act); and

27.1.b

no declaration is to be executed under section 4  (execution of declaration)
of the 1981 Act as applied by article  19  (application of the 1981 Act).

27.2

The powers conferred by article  20  (power to acquire new rights) and article
21  (temporary use of land for construction of works) cease at the end of the
period referred to in paragraph (1), except that nothing in this paragraph
prevents Network Rail from remaining in possession of land after the end of
that period, if the land was entered and possession of it was taken before the
end of that period.

### TRAFFIC REGULATION

#### Traffic signs

28

28.1

Network Rail may, for the purposes of or in connection with the construction
or operation of the authorised works, place or maintain traffic signs on any
street within the Order limits, or on any street in connection with any
instrument made under article  29  (traffic regulation) or any other street as
reasonably required for conveying information to traffic.

28.2

Network Rail—

28.2.a

must consult with the traffic authority as to the placing of signs; and

28.2.b

unless the traffic authority is unwilling to do so and subject to any
directions given under section 65  (powers and duties of traffic authorities
as to placing of traffic signs) of the 1984 Act, must enter into arrangements
with the traffic authority for any such signs to be placed and maintained by
the traffic authority.

28.3

Any power conferred by section 65 of the 1984 Act to give directions to a
traffic authority or local traffic authority as to traffic signs includes a
power to give directions to Network Rail as to traffic signs under this
article; and, accordingly, the powers conferred by paragraph (1) are
exercisable subject to and in conformity with any directions given under that
section.

28.4

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

#### Traffic regulation

29

29.1

Subject to the provisions of this article and the consent of the traffic
authority in whose area the road concerned is situated, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld, Network Rail may, in so far as may be necessary or
expedient for the purposes of, in connection with, or in consequence of, the
construction, maintenance or operation of the authorised works—

29.1.a

revoke, amend or suspend in whole or in part any order made, or having effect
as if made, under the 1984 Act;

29.1.b

permit, prohibit or restrict the stopping, waiting, loading or unloading of
vehicles on any road;

29.1.c

authorise the use as a parking place of any road;

29.1.d

make provision as to the direction or priority of vehicular traffic on any
road;

29.1.e

make provision for vehicular speed limits on any road; and

29.1.f

permit or prohibit vehicular access to any road,

either at all times or at times, on days or during such periods as may be
specified by Network Rail.

29.2

The powers conferred by paragraph (1) may be exercised at any time prior to
the opening of the authorised works for use but subject to paragraph (5) any
prohibition, restriction or other provision made under paragraph (1) may have
effect both before and after the expiry of that period.

29.3

Network Rail must consult the chief officer of police and the traffic
authority in whose area the road is situated before complying with the
provisions of paragraph (4).

29.4

Network Rail must not exercise the powers conferred by paragraph (1) unless it
has—

29.4.a

given not less than—

29.4.a.i

12 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention to do so in the case of a
permission, prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have
effect permanently; or

29.4.a.ii

4 weeks’ notice in writing of its intention to do so in the case of a
permission, prohibition, restriction or other provision intended to have
effect temporarily,

to the chief officer of police and to the traffic authority in whose area the
road is situated; and

29.4.b

advertised its intention in such manner as the traffic authority may specify
in writing within 28 days of its receipt of notice of Network Rail’s intention
in the case of subparagraph (a)(i), or within 7 days of its receipt of notice
of Network Rail’s intention in the case of sub-paragraph (a)(ii).

29.5

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made by Network Rail under
paragraph (1)—

29.5.a

has effect as if duly made by, as the case may be—

29.5.a.i

the traffic authority in whose area the road is situated, as a traffic
regulation order under the 1984 Act or, in the case of provision for vehicle
speed limits, as an order under section 84  (speed limits on roads other than
restricted roads) of that Act; or

29.5.a.ii

the local authority in whose area the road is situated, as an order under
section 32  (power of local authorities to provide parking places) or section
45  (designation of paying parking places on highways) of the 1984 Act,

and the instrument by which it is effected may specify savings and exemptions
to which the prohibition, restriction or other provision is subject; and

29.5.b

except in the case of provision for vehicle speed limits, is deemed to be a
traffic order for the purposes of Schedule 7 (road traffic contraventions
subject to civil enforcement) to the Traffic Management Act 2004 .

29.6

Any prohibition, restriction or other provision made under this article may be
suspended, varied or revoked by Network Rail from time to time by subsequent
exercise of the powers conferred by paragraph (1) within a period of 24 months
from the opening of the authorised works for use.

29.7

Before exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (1) Network Rail must
consult such persons as it considers necessary and appropriate and must take
into consideration any representations made to it by any such person.

29.8

Expressions used in this article and in the 1984 Act have the same meaning in
this article as in that Act.

29.9

The powers conferred on Network Rail by this article with respect to any road
have effect subject to any agreement entered into by Network Rail with any
person with an interest in (or who undertakes activities in relation to)
premises served by the road.

### MISCELLANEOUS AND GENERAL

#### Power to lop trees overhanging the authorised works

30

30.1

Network Rail may fell or lop any tree or shrub near any part of the authorised
works, or cut back its roots, if it reasonably believes it to be necessary to
do so to prevent the tree or shrub—

30.1.a

from obstructing or interfering with the construction, maintenance or
operation of the authorised works or any apparatus used on the authorised
works; or

30.1.b

from constituting a danger to persons using the authorised works.

30.2

In exercising the powers conferred by paragraph (1), Network Rail must not
cause unnecessary damage to any tree or shrub and must pay compensation to any
person for any loss or damage arising from the exercise of those powers.

30.3

Any dispute as to a person’s entitlement to compensation under paragraph (2),
or as to the amount of compensation, is to be determined as if it were a
dispute under Part 1 of the 1961 Act.

#### Obstruction of construction of authorised works

31

Any person who, without reasonable excuse—

31.a

obstructs any person acting under the authority of Network Rail in setting out
the lines of the scheduled works or in constructing any authorised work; or

31.b

interferes with, moves or removes any apparatus belonging to any person acting
under the authority of Network Rail,

is guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding level 3 on the standard scale.

#### Statutory undertakers, etc.

32

The provisions of Schedule 11 (apparatus and rights of statutory undertakers,
etc.) have effect.

#### Certification of plans, etc.

33

Network Rail must, as soon as practicable after the making of this Order,
submit copies of the book of reference, the deposited plans and the deposited
sections to the Secretary of State for certification that they are true copies
of, respectively, the book of reference, deposited plans, and the deposited
sections referred to in this Order; and a document so certified is admissible
in any proceedings as evidence of the contents of the document of which it is
a copy.

#### Service of notices

34

34.1

A notice or other document required or authorised to be served for the
purposes of this Order may be served—

34.1.a

by post; or

34.1.b

with the consent of the recipient, and subject to paragraphs (6) to (8), by
electronic transmission.

34.2

Where the person on whom a notice or other document to be served for the
purposes of this Order is a body corporate, the notice or document is duly
served if it is served on the secretary or clerk of that body.

34.3

For the purposes of section 7 (references to service by post) of the
Interpretation Act 1978  as it applies for the purposes of this article, the
proper address of any person in relation to the service on that person of a
notice or document under paragraph (1) is, if that person has given an address
for service, that address, and otherwise—

34.3.a

in the case of the secretary or clerk of a body corporate, the registered or
principal office of that body; and

34.3.b

in any other case, the last known address of that person at the time of
service.

34.4

Where for the purposes of this Order a notice or other document is required or
authorised to be served on a person as having any interest in, or as the
occupier of, land and the name or address of that person cannot be ascertained
after reasonable enquiry, the notice may be served by—

34.4.a

addressing it to that person by name or by the description of “owner” or, as
the case may be, “occupier” of the land (describing it); and

34.4.b

either leaving it in the hands of a person who is or appears to be resident or
employed on the land or leaving it conspicuously affixed to some building or
object on or near the land.

34.5

Where a notice or other document required to be served or sent for the
purposes of this Order is served or sent by electronic transmission, the
requirement is taken to be fulfilled where the recipient of the notice or
other document to be transmitted has given consent to the use of electronic
transmission either in writing or by electronic transmission.

34.6

Where the recipient of a notice or other document served or sent by electronic
transmission notifies the sender within 7 days of receipt that the recipient
requires a paper copy of all or any part of that notice or other document, the
sender must provide such a copy as soon as reasonably practicable.

34.7

Any consent to the use of electronic transmission given by a person may be
revoked by that person in accordance with paragraph (8).

34.8

Where a person is no longer willing to accept the use of electronic
transmission for any of the purposes of this Order—

34.8.a

that person must give notice in writing or by electronic transmission revoking
any consent given by that person for that purpose; and

34.8.b

such revocation is final and takes effect on a date specified by the person in
the notice but that date must not be less than 7 days after the date on which
the notice is given.

34.9

This article does not exclude the employment of any method of service not
expressly provided for by it.

#### Protection of interests

35

Schedule 13 (for the protection of drainage authorities and the Environment
Agency) has effect.

#### No double recovery

36

Compensation is not payable in respect of the same matter both under this
Order and under any other enactment, any contract or any rule of law.

#### Arbitration

37

Any difference under any provision of this Order, unless otherwise provided
for, must be referred to and settled by a single arbitrator to be agreed
between the parties or, failing agreement, to be appointed on the application
of either party (after giving notice in writing to the other) by the President
of the Institution of Civil Engineers.

    Signed by authority of the Secretary of State     Natasha Kopala   Head of
the Transport and Works Act Orders Unit   Department for Transport   9th June
2022

SCHEDULED WORKS

Article 2

##### In the County of Hertfordshire, District of East Hertfordshire

###### Parish of Sawbridgeworth

Work No. 1 —  A footbridge, commencing at a point 15 metres south-west of the
centre of Tednambury level crossing and terminating at a point 8 metres north-
east of its commencement.

###### Parish of Thorley

Work No. 2 —  A footbridge, commencing at a point 105 metres north-east of the
centre of Fowlers Lane level crossing and terminating at a point 8 metres
north-east of its commencement.

##### County of Essex, District of Uttlesford

###### Parish of Ugley

Work No. 3 —  A footbridge, commencing at a point 360 metres south-west of the
centre of Henham level crossing and terminating at a point 6 metres east of
its commencement.

  CLOSURE OF LEVEL CROSSINGS

Articles 5, 13, 14 and 15

##### CLOSURE OF LEVEL CROSSINGS SUBJECT TO OPENING OF NEW HIGHWAY

(1) Area (2) Extent of level crossing to be stopped up and discontinued (3)
Extent of highway to be extinguished (4) Status and extent of new highway
County of Hertfordshire Borough of Broxbourne Cadmore Lane between points P001
and P002 Cadmore Lane between points P001, P002 and P007 Footpath between
points P003, P004, P005, P006 and P007 Cycle track between points P003A,
P003B, P004, P005, P005A, P006 and P007 County of Essex District of Harlow
Camps between points P023 and P024 Footpath EX“185”75 (Harlow) between points
P021, P022, P023, P024, P025 and P026 Footpath between points P014, P015,
P016, P017, P018, P019 and P020 Path not on definitive map between points
P021, P028 and P023 Path not on definitive map between points P025 and P027
Parndon Mill between points P030 and P031 Footpath EX“185”73 (Harlow) between
points P029, P030, P031 and P032 Footpath between points P029 and P034 Path
not on definitive map between points P029, P033 and P030 County of
Hertfordshire District of East Hertfordshire Parish of Sawbridgeworth
Tednambury between points P037 and P038 Footpath 003(Sawbridgeworth) between
points P037, P038, P039, P039B and P040 Footpath between points P037, P042,
P043, P044, P045, P046, P047, P039, P039A, and P040 Path not on definitive map
between points P037, P041, P039, P039A and P039B County of Hertfordshire
District of East Hertfordshire Parish of Thorley Gilston between points P059
and P060 Footpath 007 (Thorley) between points P058, P059, P060 and P060A
Footpath between points P060A, P053, P052 and P055 Path not on definitive map
between points P058, P061, P062 and P062A Parish of Bishop’s Stortford
Johnsons between points P064 and P065 Footpath 060 (Bishop’s Stortford)
between points P063, P064, P065, P066 and P067 Footpath between points P063,
P068, P069, P070, P071, P066 and P072, between points P069 and P068A and
between points P070 and P069A Parishes of Henham, Elsenham and Ugley Elsenham
Emergency Hut between points P084A and P084 Footpath EX“25”32 (Henham) between
points P083, P084A, P084 and P085 Footpath between points P083, P088, P089,
P090 and P091 Footpath EX“51”24 (Ugley) between points P091 and P092 Footpath
EX“25”7 (Henham) between points P092, P093 and P094 and between points P095
and P096 Parishes of Ugley, Henham and Widdington Henham between points P099
and P100 Footpath EX“55”26 (Widdington) between points P106, P099, P100, P101
and P102 Footpath between points P102 and P103 and between points P104, P104A
and P105 Parish of Newport Elephant between points P110 and P111 Footpath
EX“41”14 (Newport) between points P109, P110, P111 and P112 Footpath between
points P113, P114, P115 and P112 Parishes of Newport and Wendens Ambo
Windmills between points P127 and P128 Footpath EX“41”8 (Newport) between
points P126, P127 and P128 Footpath between points P128, P130, P131 and P132
City of Chelmsford Parish of Margaretting Maldon Road between points P152 and
P152A Footpath EX“226”21 (Margaretting) between points P150, P151, P152,
P152A, P153 and P154 Bridleway between points P155 and P156 Parish of Boreham
Noakes between points P163 and P164 Footpath EX/213/24 (Boreham) between
points   P163 and P164   Bridleway between points P160, P161 and P162 Path not
on definitive map between points   P163, P167 and P165   District of Braintree
Parish of Cressing Cranes No. 1 between points P170 and P171 Footpath EX“74”14
(Cressing) between points P169 and P170 and between points P171 and P172
Footpath between points P169, P173, P174 and P172 Path not on definitive map
between points P175, P170, P171 and P178 Parish of Kelvedon Snivellers between
points P201 and P202 Bridleway EX“92”34 (Kelvedon) between points P200, P201,
P202 and P203 Bridleway between points P203, P204 and P205 Parish of Feering
Hill House 1 between points P206A and P207 Footpath EX“78”7 (Feering) between
points P206, P206A, P207, P208 and P209 Footpath between points P206 and P210
Path not on definitive map between points P207 and P208 Great Domsey between
points P213 and P214 Footpath EX“78”3 (Feering) between points P212, P213,
P214, P215 Footpath between points P212, P216, P217 and P218 Path not on
definitive map between points P213, P220 and P221 Borough of Colchester Parish
of Marks Tey Long Green between points P223 and P224 Path not on the
definitive map between points P223 and P224 Footpath between points P222,
P222A, P222B, P225A, P225B and P225, between points P222B and P223A and
between points P225A and P225 Dobbies Lane between points P222 and P223 and
between points P224 and P225 Parishes of Eight Ash Green, Stanway and Copford
Church 2 between points P232 and P229 Footpath EX“149”29 (Stanway) between
points P228, P229, P230 and P232 Footpath between points P228 and P231
Footpath EX“132”11 (Eight Ash Green) between points P232, P233, P234 and P235
District of Tendring Parish of Ardleigh Abbotts between points P267 and P268
Footpath 27 (Ardleigh) between points P265, P266, P267 and P268 Footpath
between points P265, P269, P270, P266, P271 and P272 Footpath 42 (Ardleigh)
between points P268 and P273 Footpath 28 (Ardleigh) between points P268 and
P274 Footpath between points P273, P274 and P275 Parish of Wrabness Wheatsheaf
between points P279 and P280 Footpath EX“184”19 (Wrabness) between points
P276, P277, P278, P279, and P280 Footpath between points P276, P284 and P285
Path not on the definitive map between points P278, P287, P287A and P282
District of Tendring Parish of Great Bentley Great Bentley Station between
points P314 and P316 and Lords No. 1 between points P322 and P323 Footpath
EX“165”8 (Great Bentley) between points P312, P313, P314, P315, P316 and P317
Footpath between points P317, P318 and P319 Path not on definitive map between
points P313, P320 and P316 Footpath EX“165”12(Great Bentley) between points
P321, P322, P323, P324 and P325 Parish of Frinton and Walton Bluehouse between
points P327 and P328 Footpath EX“164”16 (Frinton and Walton) between points
P326, P327, P328, P329, P330 and P331 Footpath between points P326 and P332
Thurrock No. 131 between points P335 and P336 Footpath 145 (Thurrock) between
points P334, P335, P336 and P337 and between points P338 and P341 Footpath
between points P339, P340 and P341 Path not on definitive map between points
P334, P342 and P335 and between points P336, P343 and P337 London Borough of
Havering and County of Essex Borough of Brentwood Whipps Farmers between
points P378 and P379 Footpath EX“272|178 (Havering) and Footpath EX|272”178
(Brentwood) between points P375, P376, P377, P377A and between points P378,
P379 and P380 Path not on definitive map between points P377A and P378
Footpath between points P380 and P381A and between points P381, P382 and P383
Thurrock Howells Farm between points P407 and P408 Footpath 23 (Thurrock)
between points P406, P407, P408 and P409 Footpath between points P406, P413
and P414 County of Essex Borough of Castle Point Ferry between points P427 and
P428 and Brickyard Farm between points P430 and P431 Footpath EX“BENF”22
(Castle Point) between points P426, P427, P428 and P424 Footpath between
points P425, P424 and P431 Footpath EX“BENF”12 (Castle Point) between points
P429, P430 and P431

##### CLOSURE OF LEVEL CROSSINGS NOT SUBJECT TO OPENING OF NEW HIGHWAY

      (1)   Area   (2)   Extent of level crossing to be stopped up and
discontinued   (3)   Extent of public right of way to be extinguished
County of Essex   District of Epping Forest   Parish of Roydon   Old Lane
between points P011 and P012 Footpath EX“203”13 (Roydon) between points P010,
P011, P012 and P013 City of Chelmsford   Parish of Margaretting   Parsonage
Lane between points P147 and P148 Parsonage Lane between points P147 and P148
(subject to the use by vehicular traffic by persons authorised by Network
Rail) District of Braintree   Parishes of White Notley and Cressing   Cranes
No. 2 between points P181 and P182 Footpath EX“120”8 (White Notley) between
points P179, P181, P182 and P183 Footpath EX“74”11 (Cressing) between points
P183 and P184 London Borough of Havering Butts Lane between points P367 and
P368 Footpath 170 (Havering) between points P366, P367, P368 and P370 Woodhall
Crescent between points P372 and P373 Footpath 172 between points P371, P372,
P373 and P374 London Borough of Havering and Thurrock Manor Farm between
points P358 and P359 Footpath 251 (Havering) between points P358 and P359
Path not on definitive map between points P358 and P369   County of Essex
District of Rochford   Parish of Hawkwell   Barbara Close between points P441
and P442 Footpath EX“285”18 (Hawkwell) between points P441, P442 and P443

  LAND IN WHICH PRIVATE RIGHTS OF ACCESS MAY BE ACQUIRED

Articles 5 and 20

      (1)   Extent of new private right of way   (2)   Land having benefit of
new right   (3)   Purpose for which new private right may be acquired
Between points P375 and P376 on sheet 57 Land cross-hatched on sheet 57
Vehicular access

  REDESIGNATION OF HIGHWAYS

Articles 5 and 12

      (1)   Area   (2)   Highway   (3)   Current designation   (4)   Proposed
designation     County of Hertfordshire   Borough of Broxbourne   Trinity Lane
between points R001, R002A and R002 Public Road Bridleway (subject to use by
vehicular traffic by persons authorised by Network Rail) City of Chelmsford
Parish of Boreham   Footpath EX“213”24 (Boreham) between points R006 and P162
Footpath Bridleway

LAND IN WHICH ONLY NEW RIGHTS ETC., MAY BE ACQUIRED

Articles 5 and 20

(1) Area (2) Number of land shown on the deposited plans (3) Purpose for which
rights may be acquired County of Hertfordshire District of East Hertfordshire
Parish of Sawbridgeworth 04 Access for creation of public right of way Access
for removal of Level Crossing Access for construction of the authorised works
Parish of Thorley 01, 02, 04 Access for removal of Level Crossing . . . . . .
County of Essex District of Epping Parish of Roydon 11, 12 Access for removal
of Level Crossing District of Harlow 10, 13, 14, 16, 19, 21, 25, 28, 29, 30,
31 Access for maintenance City of Chelmsford Parish of Margaretting 03, 07A
Access for removal of Level Crossing Parish of Boreham 01, 02A, 12, 12A Access
for creation of public right of way Access for removal of Level Crossing
District of Braintree Parish of White Notley 05 Access for removal of Level
Crossing Parish of Feering 16 Access for removal of Level Crossing Borough of
Colchester Parish of Eight Ash Green 01, 04, 05 Access for removal of Level
Crossing Parish of Stanway 08, 09, 10 Access for removal of Level Crossing
District of Tendring Parish of Ardleigh 01 Access for creation of public right
of way Access for removal of Level Crossing Parish of Great Bentley 06 Access
for creation of public right of way Access for removal of Level Crossing
District of Thurrock 86 Access for maintenance London Borough of Havering 38,
40 Access County of Essex Borough of Castle Point 25, 26, 27 Access for
removal of crossing 28, 29, 30, 31 Access for removal of crossing and access
for maintenance District of Rochford Parish of Hawkwell 02, 08 Access for
removal of crossing

  LAND OF WHICH TEMPORARY POSSESSION MAY BE TAKEN

Articles 5 and 21

      (1)   Area   (2)   Number of land shown on the land plans   (3)
Purpose for which temporary possession may be taken     County of
Hertfordshire   Borough of Broxbourne   01B Creation of public right of way
District of East Hertfordshire   Parish of Sawbridgeworth   01, 07, 08, 09,
13, 15 Worksite 02 Access for creation of public right of way Access for
removal of Level Crossing 10 Footbridge 14, 16, 18, 20, 23, 25, 26 Creation of
public right of way Access for construction of the authorised works Parish of
Thorley 03, 17, 20, 22, 23 Worksite 22A, 24A Footbridge 08, 09, 16, 24, 25 32
Creation of public right of way County of Essex   District of Epping   Parish
of Roydon   01, 02, 03, 04, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10 Worksite District of Harlow 01,
02, 22 Worksite 04, 05, 18, 21, 23, 24, 37, 38, 39, 40 Creation of public
right of way District of Uttlesford   Parish of Elsenham   15, 16A Worksite
Parish of Ugley 01, 02, 03 Access for removal of Level Crossing, access for
creation of public right of way 05, 07, 11, 15 Creation of public right of way
09 Access for removal of Level Crossing 12, 14 Footbridge 13, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21 Worksite 10 Worksite and creation of public right of way Parish of
Henham 01 Access for removal of Level Crossing and creation of public right of
way 02, 19A, 20, 26A Worksite 07, 19 Access for removal of Level Crossing 03,
08, 09, 10, 11, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 25, 26, 26B Creation of public right of
way Parish of Widdington 01A, 01B, 04, 06 Worksite 08 Worksite and creation of
public right of way Parish of Newport 01, 04, 09 Access for removal of Level
Crossing 10, 11, 13, 17, 20, 21, 23, 36 Worksite 22, 28, 29, 35 Creation of
public right of way and access for removal of Level Crossing 37 Access for
creation of public right of way Access for removal of level crossing Parish of
Wendens Ambo 01, 02 Access for creation of public right of way Access for
removal of Level Crossing City of Chelmsford   Parish of Margaretting   01,
02, 07, 08, 09, 11 Worksite 06 Creation of public right of way Parish of
Boreham 15, 17 Worksite 02 Creation of public right of way District of
Braintree   Parish of Cressing   05, 09 Worksite 08 Worksite and creation of
public right of way 13, 14, 14A, 15, 16 Access for creation of public right of
way and access for removal of Level Crossing 06, 06A, 07, 11, 12 Creation of
PROW 19 Access for removal of Level Crossing Parish of White Notley 03
Worksite 04, 05A Access for removal of Level Crossing Parish of Kelvedon 01,
02, 05, 08, 09 Worksite 03 Creation of public right of way Parish of Feering
04, 07 Worksite 01, 01A, 03, 05, 06, 09, 17, 21, 23, 24, 27 Creation of public
right of way 10, 11, 15 Access for removal of Level Crossing Borough of
Colchester   Parish of Eight Ash Green   02 Worksite Parish of Stanway 12, 13,
14, 15, 19 Creation of public right of way Parish of Copford 07, 08, 09, 10,
11, 12, 14 Creation of public right of way District of Tendring   Parish of
Ardleigh   06, 11, 12, 17 Creation of public right of way 09, 10, 14, 19
Worksite 15, 18 Access for removal of Level Crossing Parish of Wrabness 01, 02
Access for creation of public right of way and access for removal of Level
Crossing 03 Worksite 04 Creation of public right of way and access for removal
of level crossing Parish of Great Bentley 27, 31, 32 Worksite 04, 14, 15
Creation of public right of way 13 Creation of public right of way Access for
removal of Level Crossing 11 Access for creation of public right of way Access
for removal of Level Crossing Parish of Frinton and Walton 01 Creation of
public right of way and access for removal of Level Crossing Borough of
Brentwood 01, 02, 09, 10 Creation of public right of way 03, 08, 15, 16, 18
Worksite 11, 12, 13, 19 Access for removal of Level Crossing Borough of Castle
Point 02, 09 Creation of public right of way 03, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 Worksite
District of Rochford   Parish of Hawkwell   01 Worksite 04, 05, 06, 07
Worksite Access for removal of Level Crossing Thurrock 04, 06, 07, 11, 13, 16,
86 Access for removal of Level Crossing 12, 22A, 22B, 74A, 76, 77, 83, 87
Worksite 20, 22, 23, 72, 74, 75, 78, 82, 84 Creation of public right of way
London Borough of Havering 33, 34, 38, 40 Access for removal of Level Crossing
35, 36, 37 Worksite 20, 26, 30, 36A Worksite and access for removal of level
crossing

  STREETS SUBJECT TO ALTERATION OF LAYOUT

Article 7

      (1)   Area   (2)   Street subject to alteration of layout   (3)
Description of alteration     Parish of Elsenham Old Mead Road Creation of
footway

  STREETS SUBJECT TO STREET WORKS

Article 8

      (1)   Area   (2)   Street subject to street works     County of Essex
District of Uttlesford   Parish of Newport   Debden Road Parish of Elsenham
Old Mead Road Parish of Kelvedon Sniveller’s Lane County of Essex   Borough of
Brentwood   Warley Street

  STREETS TO BE TEMPORARILY STOPPED UP

Article 9

      (1)   Area   (2)   Street to be stopped up   (3)   Extent of temporary
stopping up     County of Hertfordshire   District of East Hertfordshire
Parish of Sawbridgeworth   Footpath 003(Sawbridgeworth) Between points T001,
P037, P038 and P039 Path not on definitive map Between points P037, P041, P039
and P039A Parish of Thorley Footpath 007 (Thorley) Between points P058, P059,
P060, and P060A Path not on definitive map Between points P058, P061, P062 and
P062A County of Essex   District of Uttlesford   Parish of Elsenham   Old Mead
Road Within Order limits Parishes of Ugley, Henham and Widdington Footpath
EX“55”26 (Widdington) Between points P106, P099, P100, P101 and P102 Parish of
Newport Footpath EX“41”14 (Newport) Between points P109, P110, P111 and P112
Debden Road Within Order limits Footpath EX“41”8 (Newport) Between points
P126, P127, P128 and P129 Parish of Wendens Ambo Rookery Lane Between points
T003 and T004 City of Chelmsford   Parish of Margaretting   Footpath EX“226”21
(Margaretting) Between points P150, P151, P152, P152A, P153 and P154 Parish of
Boreham Footpath EX/213/24 (Boreham) Between points P163, P164, P166 and P162
Path not on definitive map Between points P163, P167 and P165 District of
Braintree   Parish of Cressing   Footpath EX“74”14 (Cressing) Between points
P169 and P170 and between points P171 and P172 Path not on definitive map
Between points P170 and P171 Parish of Kelvedon Bridleway EX“92”34 (Kelvedon)
Between points P200, P201, P202 and P203 Sniveller’s Lane Within Order limits
Parish of Feering Footpath EX“78”7 (Feering) Between points P206, P206A, P207,
P208 and P209 Path not on definitive map Between points P207 and P208 Byway
Open to All Traffic BOAT EX“78”5 (Feering) Within Order limits Footpath
EX“78”3 (Feering) Between points P212, P213, P214 and P215 Path not on
definitive map Between points P212, P220 and P221 Borough of Colchester
Parishes of Copford and Stanway   Footpath EX“149”29 (Stanway) Between points
P228, P229, P230 and P232 Parishes of Stanway and Eight Ash Green Footpath
EX“132”11 (Eight Ash Green) Between points P232, P233, P234 and P235 District
of Tendring   Parish of Ardleigh   Footpath 27 (Ardleigh) Between points P265,
P266, P267 and P268 Footpath 28 (Ardleigh) Between points P268 and P274
Footpath 42 (Ardleigh) Within Order limits Footpath EX“184”19 (Wrabness)
Between points T005, P276, P277, P278, P279 and P280 Path not on the
definitive map Between points P278, P287, P287A and P282 Parish of Great
Bentley Footpath EX“165”8 (Great Bentley) Between points P312, P313, P314,
P315, P316 and P317 Path not on definitive map Between points P313, P320 and
P316 Footpath EX“165”12(Great Bentley) Between points P321, P322, P323, P324
and P325 Parish of Frinton and Walton Footpath EX“164”16 (Frinton and Walton)
Within Order limits Thurrock Footpath 145 (Thurrock) Between points P334,
P335, P336 and P337 and between points P338 and P341 Path not on definitive
map Between points P334, P342 and P335 and between points P336, P343 and P337
Footpath 23 (Thurrock) Between points P406, P407, P408 and P409 London Borough
of Havering Footpath 251 (Havering) Between points P354, P358, P359 and P360
Path not on the definitive map Between points P358, P365 and P360 Footpath
EX“272”178 Within Order limits County of Essex   Borough of Brentwood   Warley
Street Within Order limits Footpath EX“272”178 Within Order limits Borough of
Castle Point Footpath EX“BENF”22 (Castle Point) Between points P426, P427,
P428, P424 and T007 Footpath EX“BENF”12 (Castle Point) Between points P429,
P430 and P431 Footpath EX“BENF”31 (Castle Point) Between points T002 and P429
District of Rochford   Parishes of Rochford and Hawkwell   Footpath EX/285/21
(Hawkwell) Within Order limits

  ACCESS TO WORKS

Article 11

      (1)   Area   (2)   Description of Access     County of Essex   District
of Harlow   Improved access off Roydon Road District of Tendring   Parish of
Wrabness   Improved access off Wheatsheaf Lane

  APPARATUS AND RIGHTS OF STATUTORY UNDERTAKERS ETC.

Article 32

1

1.1

Sections 271 to 274  (power to extinguish rights of statutory undertakers etc.
and power of statutory undertakers etc. to remove or re-site apparatus) of the
1990 Act apply in relation to any land acquired or appropriated by Network
Rail under this Order subject to the following provisions of this paragraph;
and all such other provisions of that Act as apply for the purposes of those
provisions (including sections 275 to 278, which contain provisions
consequential on the extinguishment of any rights under sections 271 and 272,
and sections 279(2) to (4), 280 and 282 , which provide for the payment of
compensation) have effect accordingly.

1.2

In the provisions of the 1990 Act, as applied by sub-paragraph (1), references
to the appropriate Minister are references to the Secretary of State.

1.3

Where any apparatus of public utility undertakers or of a public
communications provider is removed in pursuance of a notice or order given or
made under section 271, 272 or 273 of the 1990 Act, as applied by sub-
paragraph (1), any person who is the owner or occupier of premises to which a
supply was given from that apparatus is entitled to recover from Network Rail
compensation in respect of expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in
consequence of the removal, for the purpose of effecting a connection between
the premises and any other apparatus from which a supply is given.

1.4

Sub-paragraph (3) does not apply in the case of the removal of a public sewer
but where such a sewer is removed in pursuance of such a notice or order as is
mentioned in that sub-paragraph, any person who is—

1.4.a

the owner or occupier of premises the drains of which communicated with that
sewer; or

1.4.b

the owner of a private sewer which communicated with that sewer,

is entitled to recover from Network Rail compensation in respect of
expenditure reasonably incurred by that person, in consequence of the removal,
for the purpose of making the drain or sewer belonging to that person
communicate with any other public sewer or with a private sewerage disposal
plant.

1.5

The provisions of the 1990 Act mentioned in sub-paragraph (1), as applied by
that sub-paragraph, do not have effect in relation to apparatus as respects
which paragraph 2, or Part 3 of the 1991 Act, applies.

1.6

In this paragraph—

    “ public communications provider ” has the same meaning as in section
151(1) of the 2003 Act;         “ public utility undertakers ” has the same
meaning as in the 1980 Act , and         “ apparatus ” has the same meaning as
in Part 3 of the 1991 Act.

  MODIFICATION OF COMPENSATION AND COMPULSORY PURCHASING ENACTMENTS FOR
CREATION OF NEW RIGHTS

Article 20

##### Compensation enactments

1

The enactments for the time being in force with respect to compensation for
the compulsory purchase of land apply, with the necessary modifications as
respects compensation, in the case of a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of a right by the creation of a new right, as they apply as respects
compensation on the compulsory purchase of land and interests in land.

2

2.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the 1961 Act has effect
subject to the following modification set out in sub-paragraph (2).

2.2

For section 5A(5A) of the 1961 Act (relevant valuation date), substitute—

2.2.5A

If—

2.2.5A.a

the acquiring authority enters on land for the purpose of exercising a right
in pursuance of a notice of entry under section 11(1) of the 1965 Act (as
modified by paragraph 5(5) of Schedule 12 to the Network Rail (Essex and
Others Level Crossing Reduction) Order 2022 (“ the 2022 Order ”);

2.2.5A.b

the acquiring authority is subsequently required by a determination under
paragraph 12 of Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act (as substituted by paragraph 5(8)
of Schedule 12 to the 2022 Order to acquire an interest in the land; and

2.2.5A.c

the acquiring authority enters on and takes possession of that land,

the authority is deemed for the purposes of subsection (3)(a) to have entered
on that land when it entered on that land for the purpose of exercising that
right.

3

3.1

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 1, the Land Compensation Act 1973
has effect subject to the modifications set out in sub-paragraph (2).

3.2

In section 44(1) (compensation for injurious affection), as it applies to
compensation for injurious affection under section 7 (measure of compensation
in case of severance) of the 1965 Act as substituted by paragraph 5(3)—

3.2.a

for “land is acquired or taken” substitute  “a right over land is purchased” ;
and

3.2.b

for “acquired or taken from him” substitute  “over which the right is
exercisable” .

##### Application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act

4

Part 1 (compulsory purchase under Acquisition of Land Act 1946) of the 1965
Act, as applied by article 18 (application of Part 1 of the 1965 Act), applies
to a compulsory acquisition of rights under article 20(1) (power to acquire
new rights)—

4.a

with the modifications specified in paragraph 5, and

4.b

with such other modifications as may be necessary.

5

5.1

The modifications referred to in paragraph 4(a) are as follows.

5.2

References in the 1965 Act to land are, in appropriate contexts, to be read
(according to the requirements of the particular context) as referring to, or
as including references to—

5.2.a

the right acquired or to be acquired, or

5.2.b

the land over which the right is, or is to be, exercisable.

5.3

For section 7 (measure of compensation in the case of severance) of the 1965
Act substitute—

5.3.7

In assessing the compensation to be paid by the acquiring authority under this
Act, regard shall be had, not only to the extent (if any) to which the value
of the land over which the right is acquired is depreciated by the acquisition
of the right, but also to the damage (if any) to be sustained by the owner of
the land by reason of its severance from other land of the owner, or
injuriously affecting that other land by the exercise of the powers conferred
by this or the special Act.

.

5.4

The following provisions of the 1965 Act (which state the effect of a deed
poll executed in various circumstances where there is no conveyance by persons
with interests in the land)—

5.4.a

section 9(4) (failure of owners to convey),

5.4.b

paragraph 10(3) of Schedule 1 (owners under incapacity),

5.4.c

paragraph 2(3) of Schedule 2 (absent and untraced owners), and

5.4.d

paragraphs 2(3) and 7(2) of Schedule 4 (common land),

are modified to secure that, as against persons with interests in the land
which are expressed to be overridden by the deed, the right which is to be
acquired compulsorily is vested absolutely in the acquiring authority.

5.5

Section 11  (powers of entry) of the 1965 Act is modified so as to secure
that, where the acquiring authority has served notice to treat in respect of
any right as well as the notice required by subsection (1) of that section, it
has power, exercisable in the same circumstances and subject to the same
conditions, to enter for the purpose of exercising that right; and sections
11A  (powers of entry: further notices of entry), 11B  (counter-notice
requiring possession to be taken on a specified date), 12  (penalty for
unauthorised entry) and 13  (refusal to give possession to acquiring
authority) of that Act are modified accordingly.

5.6

Section 20  (tenants at will etc.) of the 1965 Act applies with the
modifications necessary to secure that persons with such interests in land as
are mentioned in that section are compensated in a manner corresponding to
that in which they would be compensated on a compulsory acquisition under this
Order of that land, but taking into account only the extent (if any) of such
interference with such interests as is actually caused, or likely to be
caused, by the exercise of the right in question.

5.7

Section 22 (interests omitted from purchase) of the 1965 Act (as modified by
article 18(7)) is modified so as to enable the acquiring authority, in
circumstances corresponding to those referred to in that section, to continue
to be entitled to exercise the right acquired, subject to compliance with that
section as respects compensation.

5.8

For Schedule 2A to the 1965 Act substitute—

  COUNTER-NOTICE REQUIRING PURCHASE OF LAND

############# Introduction

5.8.1

This Schedule applies where an acquiring authority serve a notice to treat in
respect of a right over a house, building or factory.

5.8.2

In this Schedule, “ house ” includes any park or garden belonging to a house.

############# Counter-notice requiring purchase of land

5.8.3

A person who is able to sell the house, building or factory (“ the owner ”)
may serve a counter-notice requiring the authority to purchase the owner’s
interest in the house, building or factory.

5.8.4

A counter-notice under paragraph 3 must be served within the period of 28 days
beginning with the day on which the notice to treat was served.

############# Response to counter-notice

5.8.5

On receiving a counter-notice, the authority must decide whether to—

5.8.5.a

withdraw the notice to treat,

5.8.5.b

accept the counter-notice, or

5.8.5.c

refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal.

5.8.6

The authority must serve notice of its decision on the owner within the period
of 3 months beginning with the day on which the counter-notice is served (“the
decision period”).

5.8.7

If the authority decides to refer the counter-notice to the Upper Tribunal it
must do so within the decision period.

5.8.8

If the authority does not serve notice of a decision within the decision
period it is to be treated as if it had served notice of a decision to
withdraw the notice to treat at the end of that period.

5.8.9

If the authority serves notice of a decision to accept the counter-notice, the
compulsory purchase order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if
they included the owner’s interest in the house, building or factory.

############# Determination by Upper Tribunal

5.8.10

On a referral under paragraph 7, the Upper Tribunal must determine whether the
acquisition of the right would—

5.8.10.a

in the case of a house, building or factory, cause material detriment to the
house, building or factory, or

5.8.10.b

in the case of a park or garden, seriously affect the amenity or convenience
of the house to which the park or garden belongs.

5.8.11

In making its determination, the Upper Tribunal must take into account—

5.8.11.a

the effect of the acquisition of the right,

5.8.11.b

the use to be made of the right proposed to be acquired, and

5.8.11.c

if the right is proposed to be acquired for works or other purposes extending
to other land, the effect of the whole of the works and the use of the other
land.

5.8.12

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the acquisition of the right would have
either of the consequences described in paragraph 10, it must determine how
much of the house, building or factory the authority ought to be required to
take.

5.8.13

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the compulsory purchase
order and the notice to treat are to have effect as if they included the
owner’s interest in that land.

5.8.14

5.8.14.1

If the Upper Tribunal determines that the authority ought to be required to
take some or all of the house, building or factory, the authority may at any
time within the period of 6 weeks beginning with the day on which the Upper
Tribunal makes its determination withdraw the notice to treat in relation to
that land.

5.8.14.2

If the acquiring authority withdraws the notice to treat under this paragraph
they must pay the person on whom the notice was served compensation for any
loss or expense caused by the giving and withdrawal of the notice.

5.8.14.3

Any dispute as to the compensation is to be determined by the Upper Tribunal.

  FOR THE PROTECTION OF DRAINAGE AUTHORITIES AND THE ENVIRONMENT AGENCY

Article 35

1

1.1

The following provisions of this Schedule apply for the protection of the
drainage authority unless otherwise agreed in writing between Network Rail and
the drainage authority.

1.2

In this Schedule—

    “ the Agency ” means the Environment Agency;         “ a category 1
specified work ” means so much of any permanent or temporary work or operation
authorised by this Order (which includes any dredging and any geotechnical
investigations that may be undertaken) consists of—       erecting any
structure (whether temporary or permanent) in, over or under a main river if
the work is likely to affect any drainage work which is or includes a main
river or the volumentric rate of flow of water in or flowing to or from any
main river;       the carrying out of any work of alteration or repair of any
structure (whether temporary or permanent) in, over or under a main river if
the work is likely to affect the flow of water in the main river or to affect
any drainage work;       erecting or altering any structure (whether temporary
or permanent) designed to contain or divert the floodwaters of any part of a
main river; or       any work or operation that is in, on, under, over or
within 16 metres of a drainage work which is or includes a main river or is
otherwise likely to affect any such drainage work or the volumetric rate of
flow of water in or flowing to or from any drainage work;             “ a
category 2 specified work ” means any of the following—       erecting any
mill dam, weir or other like obstruction to the flow of any ordinary
watercourse, or raising or otherwise altering any such obstruction;
erecting a culvert in any ordinary watercourse;       altering a culvert in a
manner that would be likely to affect the flow of any ordinary watercourse; or
altering, removing or replacing a structure or feature designated by a local
drainage authority under Schedule 1 to the Flood and Water Management Act 2010
;             “ construction ” includes execution, placing, altering,
replacing, relaying and removal and “construct” and “constructed” are
construed accordingly;         “ the drainage authority ” means—       in
relation to a category 1 specified work, the Agency;       in relation to a
category 2 specified work, the drainage board concerned within the meaning of
section 23 (prohibition on obstructions etc in watercourses) of the Land
Drainage Act 1991 .             “ drainage work ” means any watercourse and
includes any land which provides or is expected to provide flood storage
capacity for any watercourse and any bank, wall, embankment or other
structure, or any appliance, constructed or used for land drainage, flood
defence or tidal monitoring;         “ the fishery ” means any waters
containing fish and fish in such waters and the spawn, habitat or food of such
fish;         “a main river” and “ordinary watercourse” have the meanings
given by respectively the Water Resources Act 1991 and the Land Drainage Act
1991;         “ plans ” includes sections, drawings, specifications and method
statements;         “ specified work ” means a category 1 specified work or a
category 2 specified work.

2

2.1

Before beginning to construct any specified work, Network Rail must submit to
the drainage authority plans of the specified work and such further
particulars available to it as the drainage authority may within 28 days of
the receipt of the plans reasonably require.

2.2

Any such specified work must not be constructed except in accordance with such
plans as may be approved in writing by the drainage authority, or determined
under paragraph 12.

2.3

Any approval of the drainage authority required under this paragraph—

2.3.a

must not be unreasonably withheld;

2.3.b

is deemed to have been given if it is neither given nor refused within 2
months of the receipt of the plans for approval and, in the case of a refusal,
accompanied by a statement of the grounds of refusal; and

2.3.c

may be given subject to such reasonable requirements as the drainage authority
may make for the protection of any drainage work, fishery, water resources, or
for the prevention of flooding or pollution or in the discharge of its
environmental duties.

2.4

The drainage authority must use its reasonable endeavours to respond to the
submission of any plans before the expiration of the period mentioned in sub-
paragraph (3)(b).

3

Without limitation on the scope of paragraph 2, the requirements which the
drainage authority may make under that paragraph include conditions requiring
Network Rail at its own expense to construct such protective works, whether
temporary or permanent, before or during the construction of the specified
works (including the provision of flood banks, walls or embankments or other
new works and the strengthening, repair or renewal of existing banks, walls or
embankments) as are reasonably necessary—

3.a

to safeguard any drainage work against damage; or

3.b

to secure that its efficiency for flood defence purposes is not impaired and
that the risk of flooding is not otherwise increased,

by reason of any specified work.

4

4.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (2), any specified work, and all protective works
required by the drainage authority under paragraph 3, must be constructed—

4.1.a

without unnecessary delay in accordance with the plans approved or settled
under this Schedule; and

4.1.b

to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority,

and an officer of the drainage authority is entitled to watch and inspect the
construction of such works.

4.2

Network Rail must give to the drainage authority not less than 14 days’ notice
in writing of its intention to commence construction of any specified work and
notice in writing of its completion not later than 7 days after the date on
which it is completed.

4.3

If any part of a specified work or any protective work required by the
drainage authority is constructed otherwise than in accordance with the
requirements of this Schedule, the drainage authority may by notice in writing
require Network Rail at Network Rail’s own expense to comply with the
requirements of this Schedule or (if Network Rail so elects and the drainage
authority in writing consents, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or
delayed) to remove, alter or pull down the work and, where removal is
required, to restore the site to its former condition to such extent and
within such limits as the drainage authority reasonably requires.

4.4

Subject to sub-paragraph (5) and paragraph 8, if within a reasonable period,
being not less than 28 days from the date when a notice under sub-paragraph
(3) is served upon Network Rail, it has failed to begin taking steps to comply
with the requirements of the notice and subsequently to make reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may
execute the works specified in the notice and any expenditure incurred by it
in so doing is recoverable from Network Rail.

4.5

In the event of any dispute as to whether sub-paragraph (3) is properly
applicable to any work in respect of which notice has been served under that
sub-paragraph, or as to the reasonableness of any requirement of such a
notice, the drainage authority must not except in an emergency exercise the
powers conferred by sub-paragraph (4) until the dispute has been finally
determined.

4.6

If by reason of construction of the specified work the Agency’s access to
flood defences or equipment maintained for flood defence purposes is
materially obstructed, Network Rail must provide such alternative means of
access to allow the Agency to maintain the flood defence or use the equipment
no less effectively than before the obstruction.

5

5.1

Subject to sub-paragraph (5) Network Rail must from the commencement of the
construction of the specified works maintain in good repair and condition and
free from obstruction any drainage work which is situated within the limits of
deviation and on land held by Network Rail for the purposes of or in
connection with the specified works, whether or not the drainage work is
constructed under the powers conferred by this Order or is already in
existence.

5.2

If any such drainage work which Network Rail is liable to maintain is not
maintained to the reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority, the
drainage authority may by notice in writing require Network Rail to repair and
restore the work, or any part of such work, or (if Network Rail so elects and
the drainage authority in writing consents, such consent not to be
unreasonably withheld or delayed), to remove the work and restore the site to
its former condition, to such extent and within such limits as the drainage
authority reasonably requires.

5.3

Subject to sub-paragraph (5) and paragraph 8, if, within a reasonable period
being not less than 28 days beginning with the date on which a notice in
respect of any drainage work is served under sub-paragraph (2) on Network
Rail, Network Rail has failed to begin taking steps to comply with the
reasonable requirements of the notice and has not subsequently made reasonably
expeditious progress towards their implementation, the drainage authority may
do what is necessary for such compliance and may recover any expenditure
reasonably incurred by it in so doing from Network Rail.

5.4

In the event of any dispute as to the reasonableness of any requirement of a
notice served under sub-paragraph (2), the drainage authority must not except
in a case of an emergency exercise the powers conferred by sub-paragraph (3)
until the dispute has been finally determined.

5.5

This paragraph does not apply to—

5.5.a

drainage works which are vested in the drainage authority, or which the
drainage authority or another person is liable to maintain and is not
precluded by the powers of the Order from doing so; and

5.5.b

any obstruction of a drainage work for the purpose of a work or operation
authorised by this Order and carried out in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule.

6

Subject to paragraph 8, if by reason of the construction of any specified work
or of the failure of any such work the efficiency of any drainage work for
flood defence purposes is impaired, or that drainage work is otherwise
damaged, such impairment or damage must be made good by Network Rail to the
reasonable satisfaction of the drainage authority and if Network Rail fails to
do so, the drainage authority may make good the same and recover from Network
Rail the expense reasonably incurred by it in so doing.

7

7.1

Network Rail must take all such measures as may be reasonably practicable to
prevent any interruption of the free passage of fish in the fishery during the
construction of any specified work.

7.2

If by reason of—

7.2.a

the construction of any specified work; or

7.2.b

the failure of any such work,

damage to a fishery is caused, or the Agency has reason to expect that such
damage may be caused, the drainage authority may serve notice on Network Rail
requiring it to take such steps as may be reasonably practicable to make good
the damage, or, as the case may be, to protect the fishery against such
damage.

7.3

Subject to paragraph 8, if within such time as may be reasonably practicable
for that purpose after the receipt of written notice from the Agency of any
damage or expected damage to a fishery, Network Rail fails to take such steps
as are described in sub-paragraph (2), the drainage authority may take those
steps and may recover from Network Rail the expense reasonably incurred by it
in doing so.

7.4

Subject to paragraph 8, in any case where immediate action by the Agency is
reasonably required in order to secure that the risk of damage to the fishery
is avoided or reduced, the drainage authority may take such steps as are
reasonable for the purpose, and may recover from Network Rail the reasonable
cost of so doing provided that notice specifying those steps is served on
Network Rail as soon as reasonably practicable after the Agency has taken, or
commenced to take, the steps specified in the notice.

8

Nothing in paragraphs 4(4), 5(3), 6, 7(3) and (4) authorises the drainage
authority to execute works on or affecting an operational railway forming part
of Network Rail’s network without the prior consent in writing of Network Rail
such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.

9

Network Rail must indemnify the drainage authority in respect of all costs,
charges and expenses which the drainage authority may reasonably incur or have
to pay or which it may sustain—

9.a

in the examination or approval of plans under this Schedule; and

9.b

in the inspection of the construction of the specified works or any protective
works required by the drainage authority under this Schedule.

10

10.1

Without affecting the other provisions of this Schedule, Network Rail must
indemnify the drainage authority from all claims, demands, proceedings, costs,
charges, penalties, damages, expenses and losses, which may be made or taken
against, recovered from, or incurred by, the drainage authority by reason of—

10.1.a

any damage to any drainage work so as to impair its efficiency for the
purposes of flood defence;

10.1.b

any damage to the fishery;

10.1.c

any raising or lowering of the water table in land adjoining the authorised
development or any sewers, drains and watercourses;

10.1.d

any flooding or increased flooding of any such lands; or

10.1.e

inadequate water quality in any watercourse or other surface waters or in any
groundwater,

which is caused by the construction of any of the specified works or any act
or omission of Network Rail, its contractors, agents or employees whilst
engaged upon the work.

10.2

The drainage authority must give to Network Rail reasonable notice of any such
claim or demand and no settlement or compromise may be made without the
agreement of Network Rail which agreement must not be unreasonably withheld or
delayed.

11

The fact that any work or thing has been executed or done by Network Rail in
accordance with plans approved by the drainage authority, or to the drainage
authority’s satisfaction, or in accordance with any directions or award of an
arbitrator, does not relieve Network Rail from any liability under the
provisions of this Schedule.

12

Any dispute arising between Network Rail and the drainage authority under this
Schedule, if the parties agree, is to be determined by arbitration under
article 37 (arbitration), but otherwise is to be determined by the Secretary
of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Secretary of State
for Transport acting jointly on a reference to them by Network Rail or the
drainage authority, after notice in writing by one to the other.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order confers powers on Network Rail to close or downgrade the level
crossings specified in Schedule 2 and for the permanent acquisition of and
temporary use of land in connection with the construction of public rights of
way and other works in the highway required in connection with the level
crossing changes.

The Order authorises the construction of works in connection with the closure
of the level crossings, the extinguishment of existing public and private
rights of way and the creation of alternative rights of way and other rights
in land.

A copy of the deposited plans and the book of reference referred to in the
Order may be inspected, on request, at the offices of Network Rail
Infrastructure Limited at Network Rail National Records Centre, Unit 5, Audax
Road, Clifton Moor, York YO30 4US.

