Title: The Sheriff Court Fees Amendment Order 2022
Date: 2024-09-23
Description: This Order corrects errors in the fee amounts in the Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022 (“the principal Order”) which makes provision for the fees payable in the sheriff court, to the sheriff clerk or the auditor of court (as appropriate).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2022/214

## The Sheriff Court Fees Amendment Order 2022

  This Scottish Statutory Instrument has been printed to correct errors in
S.S.I. 2022/181  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of
that instrument.

    Sheriff Court

  Made   at 10.20 a.m. on 21st June 2022

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   at 2.00 p.m. on 21st June 2022

  Coming into force   1st July 2022

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 107(1) and (2) of the Courts Reform (Scotland) Act
2014  and all other powers enabling them to do so.

### Citation and commencement

1

This Order may be cited as the Sheriff Court Fees Amendment Order 2022 and
comes into force on 1 July 2022.

### Amendment of the Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022

2

2.1

The Sheriff Court Fees Order 2022  is amended as follows.

2.2

In each of schedules 1, 2 and 3, in the Tables of Fees, in Part 1 (sheriff
court), at paragraph 16(a) (summary cause/simple procedure), in column 1, for
“£200” substitute  “£300” .

2.3

In schedule 1, in the Table of Fees, Part 1 (sheriff court), at paragraph
23(a) (defender’s responses), in column 2, for “£134” substitute  “£135” .

2.4

In schedule 2, in the Table of Fees, Part 1 (sheriff court)—

2.4.a

at paragraph 3(a)(ii) (commissary proceedings), in column 2, for “£553”
substitute  “£554” ,

2.4.b

at paragraph 3(b)(ii) (commissary proceedings)—

2.4.b.i

in column 2, for “£522” substitute  “£554” ,

2.4.b.ii

in column 3, for “£512” substitute  “£543” ,

2.4.c

at paragraph 23(a) (defender’s responses)—

2.4.c.i

in column 2, for “£137” substitute  “£138” ,

2.4.c.ii

in column 3, for “£134” substitute  “£135” .

2.5

In schedule 3, in the Table of Fees, Part 1 (sheriff court)—

2.5.a

at paragraph 3(a)(ii) (commissary proceedings), in column 3, for “£553”
substitute  “£554” ,

2.5.b

at paragraph 3(b)(ii) (commissary proceedings)—

2.5.b.i

in column 2, for “£532” substitute  “£565” ,

2.5.b.ii

in column 3, for “£522” substitute  “£554” .

      ASH REGAN   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St Andrew’s
House,   Edinburgh     At 10.20 a.m. on 21st June 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

This Order corrects errors in the fee amounts in the Sheriff Court Fees Order
2022 (“ the principal Order ”) which makes provision for the fees payable in
the sheriff court, to the sheriff clerk or the auditor of court (as
appropriate).

The amendments made to the fee amounts by this Order will have effect at the
same time as the relevant schedule of the principal Order which is amended by
this Order.

No separate Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment has been prepared for
this Order. A Business and Regulatory Impact Assessment was prepared in
relation to the principal Order.

