Title: The Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) (Employer-related Investments by Master Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations narrow the scope of investments that come within the definition of “employer-related investments” for large Master Trust schemes with 500 or more participating employers.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/210

## The Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) (Employer-related Investments by Master Trusts) (Amendment) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Pensions

  Made   7th September 2022

  Coming into operation   1st October 2022

      The Department for Communities makes the following Regulations in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 109(1)(d) and (3) and 177(2) to
(4) of the Pension Schemes (Northern Ireland) Act 1993  and Articles 40(1) and
(2), 41(1) and 166(1) to (3) of the Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ,
and now vested in it .

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Occupational Pension Schemes
(Investment) (Employer-related Investments by Master Trusts) (Amendment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on 1st
October 2022.

1.2

The Interpretation Act (Northern Ireland) 1954  shall apply to these
Regulations as it applies to an Act of the Assembly.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Requirement to obtain Audited Accounts and a Statement from the Auditor) Regulations

2

In regulation 3A of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Requirement to obtain
Audited Accounts and a Statement from the Auditor) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997  (information to be included in the accounts audited by the
auditor)—

2.a

in paragraph (7) for “In paragraph (4),” substitute  “Subject to paragraph
(8), in paragraph (4),” ;

2.b

after paragraph (7) add—

2.b.8

Where regulation 16A of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005  (authorised Master Trust schemes) applies
to a scheme that is a trust scheme, then for the purposes of the statement
required by paragraph (4), any employer-related investments which do not meet
the definition in regulation 16A(4) of those Regulations may be disregarded.

.

### Amendment of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations

3

3.1

The Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment) Regulations (Northern Ireland)
2005 are amended in accordance with paragraphs (2) to (6).

3.2

In regulation 1(5) (interpretation) after “In these Regulations,” insert
“save in relation to regulation 16A,” .

3.3

In regulation 12  (restrictions on employer-related investments)—

3.3.a

in paragraph (2) for “13 and 16” substitute  “13, 16, 16A and 16B” ;

3.3.b

in paragraph (2A) for “15A and 16” substitute  “15A, 16, 16A and 16B” ;

3.3.c

in paragraph (2B)—

3.3.c.i

for “regulation 16” substitute  “regulations 16 and 16A” ;

3.3.c.ii

for “15 and 15A” substitute  “15, 15A, 16A(9) and 16B” ;

3.3.d

in paragraph (3) for “None of the resources” substitute  “Subject to
regulations 16A and 16B, none of the resources” .

3.4

In regulation 15A(1)  (deposits) after “employer-related loan” insert
“mentioned in regulation 12(4) or 16A(5)” .

3.5

In regulation 16(5)  (multi-employer schemes) for “Where there is” substitute
“Subject to regulations 16A and 16B, where there is” .

3.6

After regulation 16 insert—

######### Authorised Master Trust schemes

3.6.16A

3.6.16A.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), this regulation applies to a scheme which
is—

3.6.16A.1.a

a Master Trust scheme to which Part 1 of the 2021 Act applies (and where that
scheme provides money purchase benefits in conjunction with other benefits,
references to that scheme are to the scheme only to the extent that it
provides money purchase benefits);

3.6.16A.1.b

authorised in accordance with section 5(4)(a) of the 2021 Act (decision on
application), and

3.6.16A.1.c

used by 500 or more employers.

3.6.16A.2

This regulation continues to apply to a scheme during any period of less than
two years in which the number of employers using the scheme falls below 500.

3.6.16A.3

If a scheme to which this regulation applies ceases to be authorised in
accordance with section 5(4)(a) of the 2021 Act, this regulation continues to
apply to the scheme until the date which is two years after the date on which
a decision to withdraw authorisation from the scheme becomes final in
accordance with section 35 of the 2021 Act.

3.6.16A.4

For the purposes of determining whether the scheme complies with regulation
12(2), “ employer-related investments ” means—

3.6.16A.4.a

shares or other securities issued by a relevant person;

3.6.16A.4.b

land which is occupied or used by, or subject to a lease in favour of, a
relevant person;

3.6.16A.4.c

property (other than land) which is used for the purposes of any business
carried on by a relevant person;

3.6.16A.4.d

loans to a relevant person;

3.6.16A.4.e

any guarantee of, or security given to secure, obligations of a relevant
person, and for the purposes of Article 40 and these Regulations a guarantee
or security given by the trustees or managers shall be regarded as an
investment of resources of the scheme equal to the amount of the obligations
guaranteed or secured;

3.6.16A.4.f

any loan arrangement entered into with any person whereby the trustees’ or
managers’ right to or expectation of repayment depends on the actions or
situation of a relevant person, unless it was not the trustees’ or managers’
purpose in entering into the arrangement to provide financial assistance to
the relevant person;

3.6.16A.4.g

the proportion attributable to the scheme’s resources (whether directly or
through any intervening collective investment scheme) of any investments
which—

3.6.16A.4.g.i

have been made by the operator of any collective investment scheme, and

3.6.16A.4.g.ii

would, if they had been made by the scheme, have met any of the descriptions
set out in sub-paragraphs (a) to (f);

3.6.16A.4.h

where any of a scheme’s resources are invested in an insurance policy that
meets the description set out in regulation 11(d), the proportion of the
scheme’s resources invested in that policy which is the same proportion as B
is of A where—

      A represents all the assets of the insurer held in the fund, and
B represents that part of A which would, if invested by the scheme, have met
any of the descriptions set out in sub-paragraphs (a) to (f), and

3.6.16A.4.i

where any of a scheme’s resources are invested in an insurance policy that
meets the description set out in regulation 11(e), any investments made by the
insurer from the premiums or other consideration or monies described in
regulation 11(e), which would have met any of the descriptions set out in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (f) if they had been made by the scheme.

3.6.16A.5

For the purposes of determining whether the scheme complies with regulation
12(2A) and for the purposes of regulation 12(2B), “ employer-related loan ”
means—

3.6.16A.5.a

a loan to a relevant person (including one which falls within this description
by virtue of Article 40(3));

3.6.16A.5.b

a security described in paragraph (4)(a) which is an instrument creating or
acknowledging indebtedness, except any such security which is listed on a
recognised stock exchange;

3.6.16A.5.c

an employer-related investment prescribed as such by regulation 11(b), which
meets the description set out in paragraph (4)(e), and

3.6.16A.5.d

an employer-related investment prescribed as such by regulation 11(c), which
meets the description set out in paragraph (4)(f).

3.6.16A.6

For the purposes of regulation 12(3), “ employer-related investment ” has the
meaning set out in paragraph (4).

3.6.16A.7

In regulation 13(10), “ employer-related investments ” has the meaning set out
in paragraph (4).

3.6.16A.8

Regulation 16(5)(a) applies with the omission of “and in any event must not
exceed 20 per cent. of the current market value of the scheme”.

3.6.16A.9

If an investment falls within the definition of “employer-related investments”
set out in paragraph (4) or the definition of “employer-related loan” set out
in paragraph (5) on or after 1st October 2022, other than as a result of new
investment by the scheme, the investment may be retained, or left
undischarged, until whichever is the later of—

3.6.16A.9.a

the date falling two years after the date on which it first fell within the
definition set out in paragraph (4) or (5), and

3.6.16A.9.b

where repayment cannot by virtue of contractual or other legal obligations be
required, or where disinvestment cannot be effected before the date mentioned
in sub-paragraph (a), the earliest date on which repayment can be enforced or
disinvestment effected.

3.6.16A.10

Paragraph (9) does not apply in respect of any sum regarded as a loan under
Article 40(3).

3.6.16A.11

For the purposes of this regulation—

      “ the 2021 Act ” means the Pension Schemes Act (Northern Ireland) 2021 ;
“ active member ” has the meaning set out in Article 121(1);           “
employer ” means a person who employs or engages persons who are, or are
entitled to become, members of the scheme, including at least one active
member of the scheme;           “ money purchase benefits ” has the meaning
set out in section 176(1)  of the Pension Schemes Act;           “ relevant
person ” means a scheme funder, a scheme strategist or any person who is
connected with, or an associate of, a scheme funder or a scheme strategist;
“scheme funder” and “scheme strategist” have the meanings set out in section
39 of the 2021 Act;           “ securities ” has the meaning set out in
Article 40(2A)  (restriction on employer-related investments) and must be read
in accordance with Article 40(2B).

######### Schemes to which regulation 16A ceases to apply

3.6.16B

To the extent that—

3.6.16B.a

an investment becomes an employer-related loan or an employer-related
investment as a result of regulation 16A ceasing to apply to a scheme, and

3.6.16B.b

repayment or disinvestment cannot be effected immediately by virtue of
contractual or other legal obligations,

the investment may be retained until the earliest date on which, having regard
to contractual and other legal obligations, repayment or disinvestment can be
effected.

.

### Amendment of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Disclosure of Information) Regulations

4

In paragraph 33 of Schedule 3 to the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes
(Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014  (information
to be given on request)—

4.a

in sub-paragraph (2) for “In sub-paragraph (1)” substitute  “Subject to sub-
paragraph (3), in sub-paragraph (1)” ;

4.b

after sub-paragraph (2) add—

4.b.3

Where regulation 16A of the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 (authorised Master Trust schemes) applies
to a scheme that is a trust scheme, then for the purposes of the statement
required by sub-paragraph (1), any employer-related investments which do not
meet the definition in regulation 16A(4) of those Regulations may be
disregarded.

.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 7th
September 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations narrow the scope of investments that come within the
definition of “employer-related investments” for large Master Trust schemes
with 500 or more participating employers.

  Regulation 2 amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Requirement to obtain
Audited Accounts and a Statement from the Auditor) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1997 so that the accounting requirements for large Master Trust
schemes reflect the updated provisions on employer-related investments that
apply in respect of those schemes.

  Regulation 3 amends the Occupational Pension Schemes (Investment)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2005 so that the restrictions on employer-
related investments by large Master Trusts only apply to investments relating
to a scheme funder, a scheme strategist and persons connected or associated
with a scheme funder or a scheme strategist.

  Regulation 4 amends the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes
(Disclosure of Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2014 so that the
information that must be disclosed on request to members of large Master Trust
schemes reflects the updated provisions on employer-related investments that
apply in respect of those schemes.

  As these Regulations, in so far as they are made under the Pensions
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995, make in relation to Northern Ireland only
provision corresponding to provision contained in regulations made by the
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions in relation to Great Britain, the
requirement to consult under Article 117(1) of that Order does not apply by
virtue of paragraph (2)(e) of that Article.

  An assessment of the cost to business of these Regulations is detailed in a
Regulatory Impact Assessment, a copy of which has been laid in the Business
Office and the Library of the Northern Ireland Assembly. Copies of the
Assessment are available from the Department for Communities, Social Security
Policy, Legislation and Decision Making Services, Level 6, Causeway Exchange,
1-7 Bedford Street, Belfast BT2 7EG or from the website:
https://www.communities-ni.gov.uk/articles/pension-information . A copy of the
Assessment is also annexed to the Explanatory Memorandum which is available
alongside this Statutory Rule on the website:
http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr .

