Title: The Energy Bill Relief Scheme Regulations 2022
Date: 2023-05-22
Description: These Regulations, which apply in Great Britain, establish the Energy Bill Relief Scheme for Non-Domestic Customers in Great Britain (“EBRS”). EBRS is a scheme for reducing the costs, to non-domestic customers, of being supplied with electricity or gas (“energy”) by a supplier that holds a supply licence under the Electricity Act 1989 or Gas Act 1986.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1100

## The Energy Bill Relief Scheme Regulations 2022

  Regulations made by the Secretary of State, laid before Parliament under
sections 9(6) and 26(5) to (7) of the Energy Prices Act  2022 (c. 44) , for
approval by resolution of each House of Parliament within twenty-eight days
beginning with the day on which the Regulations were made, subject to
extension for periods of dissolution, prorogation or adjournment for more than
four days.

    Energy

  Made   at 3.30 p.m. on 27th October 2022

  Laid before Parliament   at 4.00 p.m. on 31st October 2022

  Coming into force   1st November 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by section 9(1) to (4) and 26(2) of, and Schedule 1 to,
the Energy Prices Act 2022 .

### Introductory

#### Preliminary

##### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Energy Bill Relief Scheme Regulations
2022 and come into force on 1st November 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales and Scotland.

##### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Energy Prices Act 2022;           “ base discount
” has the meaning given in regulation 17;           “ base rate ” means—
the rate announced from time to time by the Monetary Policy Committee of the
Bank of England as the official dealing rate, being the rate at which the Bank
is willing to enter into transactions for providing short term liquidity in
the money markets, or           where an order under section 19 of the Bank of
England Act 1998  (reserve powers) is in force, any equivalent rate determined
by the Treasury under that section;                 “ base recovery amount ”
has the meaning given in regulation 22(2);           “ billing period ” means,
in relation to a supply contract, a period of energy supply in respect of
which, under the terms of the supply contract, the supplier is obliged or
entitled to send to the customer an invoice or other statement of account;
“ business day ” means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, or a day which
is a bank holiday under the Banking and Financial Dealings Act 1971  in any
part of the United Kingdom;           “ claim window ” means a period in which
a supplier may submit a discount recovery claim, set in accordance with
regulation 34;           “ climate change levy ” means the climate change levy
as defined in section 30 of and Schedule 6 to the Finance Act 2000 ;
“ contract parties ” means, in relation to a supply contract, the supplier and
customer which are parties to the supply contract;           “ contracted
wholesale price ” means, in relation to a supply contract, that part of the
supply price which represents the cost to the supplier at the wholesale price
of energy supplied under the contract (whether or not it is separately
identified in the contract);           “ the court ” means—         the High
Court, or           in Scotland, the Court of Session;                 “
customer ” means a person supplied or to be supplied by a supplier with
electricity by way of GB non-domestic electricity supply  or gas by way of GB
non-domestic gas supply ;           “ deemed contract ” has the meaning given
in the relevant standard conditions ;           “discount” has, in respect of
a supply contract, the meaning given in regulation 18;           “ discount
recovery ” means the recovery in accordance with Part 3 by a supplier from the
Secretary of State of the amounts by which its charges under supply contracts
have been reduced by the application of discounts under the electricity scheme
or (as the case may be) the gas scheme;           “ discount recovery claim ”
has the meaning given in regulation 22(3);           “ discount recovery rules
” means the rules made by the Secretary of State under regulation 33;
“ discounted supply price ” means, in relation to a supply contract, the
supply price reduced by the discount;           “ electricity scheme ” has the
meaning given in regulation 3(1)(a);           “ electricity system ” means a
transmission system or distribution system (as defined in section 4(4) of the
Electricity Act 1989 );           “ energy ” means electricity supplied by way
of GB non-domestic electricity supply or gas supplied by way of GB non-
domestic gas supply;           “ energy reconciliation ” means—         the
determination, by the reading of a meter, of the quantity of energy supplied
under a supply contract in the period since a prior reading of the meter, and
a reconciliation by comparison with the quantity previously estimated as
supplied in that period, or           the resolution, in respect of any
period, of any question or dispute about a meter or a reading of a meter, or
otherwise about the quantity of energy supplied under a supply contract, and a
reconciliation by comparison with the quantity previously determined as
supplied in that period;                 “ excluded fixed price contract ”
means a fixed price contract for which the price-fix date is before the fixed
price cut-off date;           “ fixed price contract ” means a supply contract
under which, at the time the contract is entered into, or is treated, for the
purposes of regulation 13, as being entered into, the contracted wholesale
price is fixed for the term of the contract, including where it is fixed so
that different prices apply, for example, at different times of day, or in
different seasons in the term of the contract;           “ fixed price cut-off
date ” means the date specified as such in regulation 7;           “ flexible
price contract ” means a supply contract under which the customer may elect
from time to time to fix the contracted wholesale price for particular
quantities of energy to be supplied during certain periods, and to cancel any
such fixing of the contracted wholesale price, or which provides another
mechanism by which the contracted wholesale price will be determined for
periods specified in or determined under the contract;           “ gas scheme
” has the meaning given in regulation 3(1)(b);           “ government
supported price ” means the price determined, for the purposes of the
electricity scheme and the gas scheme respectively, under regulation 8(1)(a)
or regulation 8(2);           “ grid-delivered ” has the meaning given in
regulation 42(1)(b);           “ ineligible quantity ” has the meaning given
in regulation 44(1);           “ kWh ” means kilowatt hours;           “
maximum discount ” means the amount determined under regulation 8(1)(b) or
regulation 8(2) for the purposes of the electricity scheme and the gas scheme
respectively as the maximum amount of any discount (other than in relation to
fixed price contracts, except as provided in regulation 18);           “ meter
” means a meter (and associated equipment) installed at or near to the
customer’s premises by means of which the quantity of energy supplied to the
customer in a period may be determined;           “ minimum supply price ”
means, for the purposes of the electricity scheme and the gas scheme
respectively, a price equal to the government supported price, subject to
regulation 8(2);           “ out-of-contract contract ” means a supply
contract that continues to apply to a customer, and under which the supplier
continues to supply energy to that customer, after it has been terminated or
has expired through the passage of time;           “ p/kWh ” means pence per
kilowatt hour;           “ period of supply ” means, in respect of a supply
contract, a period of a whole number of consecutive days, in which the
supplier has supplied energy to the customer, in respect of which the supplier
claims discount recovery;           “ price-fix date ” in relation to a fixed
price contract means the date when the contracted wholesale price applicable
to that contract was fixed;           “ qualifying amount ” has the meaning
given in regulation 50;           “qualifying financially disadvantaged
customer” or “ QFDC ” has the meaning given in regulation 51;           “
reconciliation run-off date ” has the meaning given in regulation 29(6)(a);
“ recovery claim amount ” has the meaning given in regulation 24(1);
“ reference wholesale price ” means, in relation to a supply contract and a
period of supply, the wholesale price which is deemed for the purposes of the
scheme to be the contracted wholesale price, as determined under regulation 10
or in accordance with regulation 11;           “ scheme ” has the meaning
given in regulation 3;           “ scheme commencement date ” means 1st
October 2022;           “ scheme end date ” has the meaning given in
regulation 29(6)(c);           “ scheme introduction date ” means the date on
which these Regulations are made;           “ scheme period ” means the period
specified in regulation 6;           “ supplier ” means a licensed electricity
supplier  or a licensed gas supplier ;           “ supply contract ” means a
contract, including a deemed contract or an out-of-contract contract, between
a supplier and a customer which provides for GB non-domestic electricity
supply or GB non-domestic gas supply at any time during the scheme period;
“ supply contract recovery amount ” has the meaning given in regulation 23(1);
“ supply price ” has the meaning given in regulation 9;           “ supply
quantity ” means the quantity of energy supplied to a customer under a supply
contract in any period of supply, excluding any ineligible quantity;
“ valid ” in relation to a discount recovery claim, has the meaning given in
regulation 30(3), and “ invalidity ” is to be construed accordingly;
“ variable price contract ” means a supply contract under which the supplier
may change the contracted wholesale price at any time by giving notice (as
provided in the contract) to the customer;           “ wholesale price ” means
a price at which electricity or gas is traded in the wholesale electricity or
gas market.

2.2

In these Regulations—

2.2.a

references, in the context of a supply contract, to the supplier or the
customer are to the supplier or customer which is party to the supply
contract;

2.2.b

references to quantities of energy are (unless otherwise specified) to
quantities of electricity or gas expressed in kWh;

2.2.c

references to energy supplied under a supply contract are to energy supplied
during the scheme period;

2.2.d

references to energy (or a quantity of energy) supplied under a supply
contract are to energy supplied to the customer at its premises and measured
as supplied by a meter or meters or (where no meter is installed) estimated
pursuant to a document designated for the purposes of section 173 of the
Energy Act 2004 ;

2.2.e

references to the supply quantity under a supply contract in any period, at
any time at which that quantity has not been determined by meter reading, are
to the quantity of energy estimated by the supplier, in accordance with the
supply contract, as supplied in that period;

2.2.f

references to—

2.2.f.i

the price of energy (or the price payable by the customer for energy) supplied
under a supply contract are to the price expressed in p/kWh;

2.2.f.ii

charges payable by the customer under a supply contract are to the charges
expressed in pounds.

2.3

In these Regulations—

2.3.a

a “gas day” is the period starting at 05.00 hours on one day and ending at
05.00 hours on the next day;

2.3.b

for the purposes of the gas scheme—

2.3.b.i

a reference to a day is to a gas day;

2.3.b.ii

a reference to a week, month or other period (“ P ”) is to the period from the
start of the gas day which starts on the first day of P to the end of the gas
day which starts on the last day of P.

#### Energy Bill Relief Scheme

##### Establishment of the scheme

3

3.1

These Regulations make provision for—

3.1.a

a support scheme  in respect of GB non-domestic electricity supply (the
“electricity scheme”), and

3.1.b

a support scheme in respect of GB non-domestic gas supply (the “gas scheme”),

known collectively as the Energy Bill Relief Scheme for Non-Domestic Customers
in Great Britain) (the “scheme”).

3.2

These Regulations apply separately for the purposes of the electricity scheme
and the gas scheme, unless otherwise provided in these Regulations.

##### Application of the scheme

4

4.1

These Regulations apply in respect of energy supplied in the scheme period.

4.2

These Regulations apply in relation to—

4.2.a

each supplier;

4.2.b

each supply contract;

4.2.c

all quantities of energy supplied under such supply contracts, other than—

4.2.c.i

ineligible quantities;

4.2.c.ii

quantities supplied under an excluded fixed price contract;

4.2.c.iii

quantities supplied under a supply contract for which an opt-out notice has
been given, as provided in paragraph (4), and has not been withdrawn.

4.3

Where a person has been a supplier during the scheme period but has ceased to
hold an electricity supply licence or gas supply licence, the Regulations
continue to apply to that person (as if it were a supplier) for the purposes
of reconciliation, as provided in regulation 29.

4.4

A customer may, by giving notice to a supplier, in respect of a supply
contract between them, elect that no discount is to apply in respect of energy
supplied under the supply contract on and from the date specified in such
notice (which may be before, on, or after the date when the notice is given)
(an “opt-out notice”).

4.5

Where a customer has given an opt-out notice, it may give a further notice to
the supplier, withdrawing the opt-out notice in respect of energy supplied
under the supply contract on and from the date specified in such further
notice (which may not be before the date when the notice is given).

##### Making rules

5

Rules made under these Regulations must—

5.a

be made by the Secretary of State;

5.b

be published as soon as is reasonably practicable after the rules are made;

5.c

come into force no earlier than the day after the day on which the rules are
published.

#### Basic terms of the scheme

##### Scheme period

6

The scheme period is the period from 1st October 2022 to 31st March 2023
inclusive.

##### Fixed price cut-off date

7

The fixed price cut-off date is 1st December 2021.

##### Government supported price, maximum discount and minimum supply price

8

8.1

The Secretary of State must, no later than the scheme introduction date,
determine and publish, for the purposes of each of the electricity scheme and
the gas scheme—

8.1.a

the price (in p/kWh) which is the government supported price;

8.1.b

the amount (in p/kWh) which is the maximum discount.

8.2

The Secretary of State may, for purposes of the electricity scheme or the gas
scheme, revise the government supported price, the maximum discount or the
minimum supply price by publishing a notice that specifies—

8.2.a

the revised government supported price, maximum discount or minimum supply
price;

8.2.b

the date, which must not be earlier than the date of publication, with effect
from which the revision is made (“revision date”);

8.2.c

whether the revision applies in respect of—

8.2.c.i

variable price contracts, flexible price contracts or fixed price contracts,
and

8.2.c.ii

in the case of variable price contracts or flexible price contracts, to those
contracts entered into before the revision date.

8.3

A revised government supported price, maximum discount or minimum supply
price—

8.3.a

applies in respect of supply contracts entered into on or after the revision
date;

8.3.b

does not apply in respect of fixed price contracts entered into before that
date;

8.3.c

applies, where so specified under paragraph (2)(c)(ii), in respect of variable
price contracts or flexible price contracts entered into before that date;

8.3.d

does not in any case apply in respect of energy supplied under a supply
contract before that date.

### Discounted supply price

#### Determination of prices

##### Supply price

9

9.1

In these Regulations “ supply price ” in relation to a supply contract means—

9.1.a

the price (before the application of a discount under the scheme) of energy
supplied under that contract, so far as that price is to be paid in respect of
the quantity of energy supplied in any period, or

9.1.b

if the supply contract provides for different prices (in respect of energy
supplied at different times of day or measured by different meters, or
otherwise), the average of such prices—

9.1.b.i

weighted by the quantities in the relevant period to which each such price
applies, or

9.1.b.ii

where applicable, and to the extent that determining the average under sub-
paragraph (b)(i) is not practicable, weighted by the number of hours in the
day for which each such price applies.

9.2

The supply price does not include amounts in respect of—

9.2.a

value added tax;

9.2.b

climate change levy.

##### Reference wholesale price – fixed price and variable price contracts

10

10.1

The Secretary of State must establish and publish a methodology for
determining reference wholesale prices applicable to fixed price contracts and
variable price contracts, including a timetable for publishing those prices.

10.2

The methodology may—

10.2.a

make different provision in respect of fixed price contracts and variable
price contracts;

10.2.b

in relation to a fixed price contract, make reference to the price-fix date of
that contract;

10.2.c

provide, in relation to any category of supply contract, for a reference
wholesale price to be determined for the whole of the scheme period or for
different reference wholesale prices to be determined for different periods
within the scheme period;

10.2.d

refer to published quotations of wholesale prices for gas or electricity
traded in the wholesale markets at different times and for delivery at
different times;

10.2.e

permit the Secretary of State to decide the times at which it is appropriate,
for the proper operation of the scheme, that reference wholesale prices should
be published.

10.3

The methodology must not refer to—

10.3.a

any particular details of a variable price contract;

10.3.b

any particular details of a fixed price contract other than the price-fix
date.

10.4

Where the methodology provides, in relation to a category of supply contract,
for different reference wholesale prices to be determined for different
periods, the methodology must provide for how it is to be determined which of
those reference wholesale prices applies to any particular supply contract in
that category.

10.5

The Secretary of State must determine and publish, in accordance with and at
the times determined under the methodology, the reference wholesale prices for
variable price contracts and fixed price contracts.

10.6

The Secretary of State may amend the methodology by giving notice of the
amendment.

10.7

Where, in accordance with the methodology or any amendment of it, the
Secretary of State revises any wholesale reference price which has already
been determined in respect of variable price contracts—

10.7.a

the Secretary of State must publish the date, which must not be earlier than
the date on which such revised price was published, on which the revision
takes effect (“effective date”);

10.7.b

the revised wholesale reference price—

10.7.b.i

applies in respect of variable price contracts entered into on or after the
effective date;

10.7.b.ii

where so determined by the Secretary of State, applies in respect of energy
supplied on and after the effective date under variable price contracts
entered into before that date.

##### Reference wholesale price – flexible price contracts

11

11.1

In relation to a flexible price contract the reference wholesale price for any
period (“ P ”) in which energy is supplied is the contracted wholesale price
on a volume-weighted average basis for that period.

11.2

The volume-weighted average contracted wholesale price for P is determined by
reference to any of the following that apply under that contract—

11.2.a

any elections (and the quantities, periods and prices subject to those
elections) made by the customer to fix the contracted wholesale price;

11.2.b

any cancellations by the customer of such an election;

11.2.c

any amounts (so far as relating to wholesale prices) payable by or to the
customer in respect of such elections or cancellations;

11.2.d

any amounts payable by the customer in respect of quantities of energy in
default of such elections;

11.2.e

the quantities, periods and prices on the basis of which the contracted
wholesale price was fixed under any other mechanism under the contract;

11.2.f

other amounts referable to the wholesale cost of electricity in accordance
with the principle in paragraph (3),

each so far as attributable to energy supplied under the contract in P.

11.3

The principle is that amounts payable by the customer under the supply
contract—

11.3.a

should be included in the contracted wholesale price where such payment has
the effect of passing through to the customer a cost or risk incurred by the
supplier and related to the cost of wholesale energy;

11.3.b

should not be included in the contracted wholesale price where such amount is
payable to compensate or reward the supplier for bearing, and not passing
through to the customer, such a cost or risk.

11.4

A supplier must—

11.4.a

establish a methodology setting out the basis on which it will determine the
reference wholesale price under each flexible price contract, or each kind of
flexible price contract, that it enters or has entered into;

11.4.b

keep the methodology under review and update it if appropriate;

11.4.c

maintain, in respect of each flexible price contract, the data necessary to
make those determinations in accordance with the relevant methodology;

11.4.d

apply the relevant methodology in making those determinations.

#### Categorisation of supply contracts

##### Categories of supply contracts

12

12.1

Subject to paragraph (2) and any rule made under regulation 21(b) or (d), any
supply contract is to be treated for the purposes of the scheme as a fixed
price contract, flexible price contract or variable price contract.

12.2

If a contract between a supplier and customer provides for the supply of both
electricity and gas, it must be treated for the purposes of these Regulations
as comprising separate supply contracts for electricity and gas respectively.

##### Treatment of fixed price contracts at end of term

13

13.1

Paragraphs (2) and (3) apply where, as a result of a relevant amendment of a
fixed price contract—

13.1.a

the contracted wholesale price is fixed under the new contract for any period
starting at or after the end of the original fixed term;

13.1.b

at any time before the end of the original fixed term, the contracted
wholesale price fixed under the new contract differs from the contracted
wholesale price under the original contract.

13.2

In a case within paragraph (1)(a), subject to paragraph (3), the new contract
is to be treated for the purposes of the scheme as a new fixed price contract
for which the price-fix date is determined by reference to the time when the
relevant amendment was made.

13.3

In a case within paragraph (1)(b), until the end of the original fixed term,
the base discount applicable in respect of the new contract is the base
discount that was applicable to the original contract.

13.4

Where with effect from the end of the original fixed term—

13.4.a

a supply contract continues in force, and

13.4.b

the contracted wholesale price is not fixed for any period after the original
fixed term,

the contract is to be treated as a variable price contract entered into at the
time of any relevant amendment to it or (in the absence of any relevant
amendment) at the end of the original fixed term.

13.5

In this regulation—

13.5.a

the “original contract” is the fixed price contract before the relevant
amendment;

13.5.b

the “original fixed term” is the term for which the contracted wholesale price
was fixed under the original contract;

13.5.c

the “new contract” is the contract which results from the relevant amendment;

13.5.d

a “relevant amendment” is any amendment, extension or variation of the fixed
price contract, or the entry by the contract parties into another contract
which replaces the fixed price contract, or any other arrangement between the
contract parties which has a similar effect.

##### Duty of supplier to categorise contracts

14

14.1

A supplier must, in respect of each of its supply contracts—

14.1.a

where required under rules made under regulation 21(b), determine whether, and
if so on what basis, it is to be treated as comprising more than one supply
contract, in which case the further provisions of this paragraph apply in
respect of each of those supply contracts;

14.1.b

determine whether it is a fixed price contract, a flexible price contract or a
variable price contract;

14.1.c

in the case of a fixed price contract—

14.1.c.i

determine the price-fix date;

14.1.c.ii

determine whether it is an excluded fixed price contract.

14.2

A supplier must give notice to the customer of the determinations made under
paragraph (1).

##### Times by which determinations are to be made and notices given

15

The determinations in respect of a supply contract under regulation 14(1) must
be made and notice under paragraph 14(2) given—

15.a

in the case of a supply contract in force at the scheme introduction date, as
soon as practicable after that date, and no later than 45 days after the
scheme introduction date;

15.b

in the case of a supply contract entered into after the scheme introduction
date, by the later of—

15.b.i

the time at which the supply contract is entered into, and

15.b.ii

45 days after the scheme introduction date.

##### Methodology for contract categorisation

16

A supplier must—

16.a

establish a methodology setting out the basis on which it will make the
determinations under regulation 14(1);

16.b

keep the methodology under review and update it if appropriate, having regard
in particular to—

16.b.i

any change in the basis or terms on which it enters or offers to enter into
supply contracts;

16.b.ii

any determination of the Secretary of State in respect of the categorisation
of the supplier’s supply contracts under Chapter 4 of Part 6;

16.c

maintain, in respect of each supply contract, the data necessary to make the
determinations under regulation 14(1) in accordance with the methodology;

16.d

apply the methodology in making those determinations, and ensure that it has
in place reliable systems and procedures to apply the methodology.

#### Discounting supply price under supply contracts

##### Calculation of base discount

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph (3), the “base discount” in respect of a supply contract
for any period (“ P ”) is determined as—

    RWP - GSP               Where—         RWP is the reference wholesale
price applicable to that supply contract for P, subject to paragraph (4);
GSP is the government supported price

17.2

The Secretary of State must determine the base discounts for fixed price
contracts and variable price contracts, and publish them with the
corresponding reference wholesale prices.

17.3

Where regulation 48 applies, the base discount is reduced in accordance with
that regulation.

17.4

Where regulation 39(1) applies, the reference wholesale price is determined
under sub-paragraph (c) of that regulation.

##### Calculation of discount

18

The reduction (in p/kWh) in the supply price under a supply contract to be
applied pursuant to the scheme in respect of that contract for any period (“ P
”) (“the discount”) is calculated as—

  max ⁡ min ⁡ BD , M>D , SP - MP , 0             Where—         BD is the base
discount in respect of that supply contract for P;           MD is—
in relation to a variable price contract or a flexible price contract, the
maximum discount;           in relation to a fixed price contract—
except as provided in sub-paragraph (ii), the base discount;           if the
price-fix date is later than the date the contract is entered into, in respect
of any period before the price-fix date, the maximum discount;             SP
is the supply price for P;       MP is the minimum supply price.

##### Duty of suppliers to provide the discount

19

19.1

A supplier must, in respect of each supply contract—

19.1.a

determine the base discount and the discount for any period in respect of that
contract;

19.1.b

reduce the supply price under each supply contract by the discount;

19.1.c

reduce the amount charged to the customer in respect of supply in any billing
period by an amount calculated as the billed supply quantity multiplied by the
discount;

19.1.d

for each billing period, inform the customer in, or within 15 days of issuing,
its invoice or other statement of account in relation to the supply contract
in respect of that period, of—

19.1.d.i

the amount of the discount;

19.1.d.ii

the discounted supply price;

19.1.d.iii

the amount by which its charges for supply in the billing period have been
reduced by applying the discount, or the basis on which that amount can be
determined.

19.2

In relation to a flexible price contract the information provided by the
supplier under paragraph (1)(d) must include an explanation of how the
reference wholesale price for the relevant billing period has been calculated.

19.3

Where a supplier adjusts its charges to a customer in consequence of energy
reconciliation in respect of any period, the adjustment must be made on the
basis of the discounted supply price applicable to such period.

19.4

In respect of the period from the scheme commencement date to the scheme
introduction date, a supplier must, no later than 45 days after the scheme
introduction date—

19.4.a

determine the amount by which its charges to a customer for energy supplied in
that period are to be reduced by the application of the discount;

19.4.b

where it has issued an invoice or statement of account to the customer in
respect of any such charges, revise such invoice or statement or issue a
credit note to reflect such reduction in charges;

19.4.c

where the customer has paid any amount in respect of such charges, credit to
the customer’s account the amount by which such payment exceeds what was
payable on the basis of the discounted supply price, or at the customer’s
request reimburse such amount to the customer.

19.5

A supplier must ensure that—

19.5.a

the amounts which are the subject of arrangements it makes with or
requirements it imposes on any customer in connection with the payment (or
assurance of payment) or collection of charges under a supply contract, are
amounts calculated by reference to the discounted supply price;

19.5.b

where a customer takes its supply through a prepayment meter, the prepayment
meter is set or reset, or other arrangements are made, as soon as reasonably
practicable after the scheme introduction date, to ensure that the amounts
paid by the customer over the scheme period reflect charges at the discounted
supply price for supply in the scheme period.

19.6

Arrangements referred to in paragraph (5)(a) include (without limitation)
arrangements for advance payment, payment by direct debit, payment by
instalments, security or credit cover for payment.

##### Consequences of change in contract categorisation

20

Where the categorisation of a supply contract under regulation 14 is revised,
either by agreement of the contract parties or by determination of the
Secretary of State under these Regulations, the supplier must—

20.a

redetermine the amount of any charges for energy supplied under the contract
prior to the date of such revision on the basis of the discounted supply price
applicable to the contract as re-categorised;

20.b

determine the amount by which any such charges already included in any invoice
or statement of account are to be revised to reflect such redetermination;

20.c

notify the customer of its determinations under paragraphs (a) and (b) and
take the necessary steps to ensure the amount in paragraph (b) is credited or
debited to the customer by way of credit note, or adjustment of an existing
invoice or statement of account, or inclusion in a future invoice or statement
of account.

#### Rules as to matters in this Part

##### Rules as to matters in this Part

21

The Secretary of State may make rules—

21.a

about the determination (including as to what is, and what is not, to be taken
into account in the determination) of weighted average contracted wholesale
prices in respect of flexible supply contracts in accordance with regulation
11;

21.b

about the basis on which it is to be determined whether a supply contract is a
fixed price contract, a variable price contract or a flexible price contract;

21.c

about the basis on which the price-fix date of a fixed price contract is to be
determined;

21.d

requiring that, in circumstances specified in the rules, a supply contract
must be treated for the purposes of the scheme as comprising, as to different
portions of the energy supplied under it, as more than one contract, and, for
these purposes, the two or more contracts which it is to be treated as
comprising may be of the same or different categories as referred to in
regulation 12(1).

### Discount recovery

#### Entitlements in respect of discount recovery

##### Entitlements in respect of discount recovery

22

22.1

A supplier is entitled to recover from the Secretary of State, as provided in
this Part, the amount by which, in any period, its charges to customers under
supply contracts are reduced by the application of discounts in accordance
with Part 2 and Part 4.

22.2

The amount (the “base recovery amount”) which a supplier is entitled to
recover from the Secretary of State in respect of energy supplied in any
period under a supply contract is the quantity supplied multiplied by the
discount.

22.3

In order to obtain discount recovery a supplier must submit a claim in
accordance with Chapter 4 (a “discount recovery claim”).

22.4

The Secretary of State is entitled to recover from a supplier any amount paid
to the supplier under this Part that exceeds what the supplier is entitled to
recover under this Part.

##### Determination of amounts subject to discount recovery

23

23.1

For each supply contract, the “supply contract recovery amount” is the amount
that is payable to or by the supplier in respect of a discount recovery claim,
and is calculated as the sum of—

23.1.a

the base recovery amount, in respect of energy supplied in the period of
supply specified in the claim, and

23.1.b

each of the following, so far as it qualifies under paragraph (2)—

23.1.b.i

any adjustment of a base recovery amount for an earlier period of supply
arising as a result of energy reconciliation;

23.1.b.ii

any adjustment of a base recovery amount in respect of an earlier period of
supply arising as a result of the correction of any error (in the calculation
of that amount) in accordance with the discount recovery rules;

23.1.b.iii

any adjustment of the base recovery amount in respect of an earlier period of
supply arising as a result of failure to apply (or to apply correctly) any of
regulations 39, 44 or 48 in the determination under sub-paragraph (a) of the
base recovery amount for that earlier period of supply;

23.1.b.iv

any adjustment of the base recovery amount in respect of an earlier period of
supply where the customer has given an opt-out notice effective from a date
before the notice was given;

23.1.b.v

any adjustment in consequence of a determination of the Secretary of State
under regulation 63 or 64 or a reconsidered decision of the Secretary of State
under regulation 65.

23.2

An amount in paragraph (1)(b) qualifies for inclusion in a discount recovery
claim where it was not taken into account in the supply contract recovery
amount under any prior discount recovery claim.

23.3

In paragraph (1)(b), an amount which is—

23.3.a

payable to the supplier, is counted as a positive amount;

23.3.b

payable to the Secretary of State, is counted as a negative amount.

23.4

The period of supply specified for any supply contract in a discount recovery
claim—

23.4.a

must be a period ending before the date on which the claim is submitted;

23.4.b

must not include any day which falls in the period of supply specified for
that supply contract in any earlier claim.

23.5

A supplier may not claim discount recovery in respect of a supply contract
unless it has complied with regulation 14(1) in relation to the contract.

23.6

For any supply contract, where any of the amounts referred to in paragraph
(1)(b) is an amount payable to the Secretary of State, the supplier must—

23.6.a

submit a discount recovery claim in accordance with Chapter 4 in the first
claim window which starts after such amount has been determined;

23.6.b

include those amounts in the supply contract recovery amount in that discount
recovery claim.

23.7

The amount payable by the Secretary of State to a supplier in respect of a
discount recovery claim may be adjusted in accordance with regulation 31(2).

23.8

Amounts under paragraph (1)(b) continue to be determined and payable by or to
a supplier after the scheme end date in accordance with regulation 29.

23.9

Where a customer gives an opt-out notice in respect of a supply contract, this
Part continues to apply in relation to the amounts referred to in paragraph
(1)(b) for any period of supply under the supply contract before the day from
which the opt-out notice was effective.

##### Payment of amounts in respect of discount recovery

24

24.1

The amount payable in respect of a supplier’s discount recovery claim as a
whole (“the recovery claim amount”) is, subject to the application of
regulation 31, the sum of—

24.1.a

the supply contract recovery amounts payable in respect of each of its supply
contracts, and

24.1.b

any amount carried forward from the preceding discount recovery claim under
paragraph (3)(b)(i).

24.2

The recovery claim amount is payable—

24.2.a

to the supplier, provided that the discount recovery claim was valid and
submitted in compliance with the requirements in regulation 30, or

24.2.b

as the case may be, to the Secretary of State, subject to paragraph (3)(b),

no later than the 10th business day after the last day of the claim window in
which the claim was submitted.

24.3

If (in respect of a discount recovery claim) the recovery claim amount is
negative—

24.3.a

that amount is payable (disregarding its negative sign) by the supplier to the
Secretary of State;

24.3.b

the Secretary of State may, by notice to the supplier, elect—

24.3.b.i

that such amount is to be carried forward and deducted in calculating the
recovery claim amount under the next following discount recovery claim
submitted by the supplier, or

24.3.b.ii

that the supplier must pay the amount to the Secretary of State.

24.4

Where any amount is owing and unpaid by a supplier to the Secretary of State
under either the electricity scheme or the gas scheme, the Secretary of State
may set that amount off against any amount which is payable to the supplier by
the Secretary of State under either the electricity scheme or the gas scheme.

24.5

If an amount payable by a supplier or the Secretary of State under this
regulation is not paid by the due date, simple interest is payable on the
unpaid amount, from the day following the due date until the day on which the
amount is paid in full, at a rate calculated as base rate plus 2 percentage
points per annum.

24.6

An amount payment of which is withheld by the Secretary of State under
regulation 27 is not an amount payable by the Secretary of State for the
purposes of paragraph (5) unless and until the amount is released under
regulation 28.

24.7

An amount payable to a supplier or the Secretary of State under this
regulation is recoverable as a civil debt by the person to which it is
payable.

##### Assignment of rights in respect of payment

25

A supplier may not assign, transfer or otherwise deal with its right to
receive payment of amounts in respect of discount recovery under this Part
except with the consent of the Secretary of State.

##### Absolute right of Secretary of State to recover

26

The Secretary of State may at any time (including after the reconciliation
cut-off date) require a supplier to pay any amount which has been paid to the
supplier in excess of what the supplier is entitled to be paid under the
scheme.

#### Withholding of payments in respect of discount recovery

##### Rights of Secretary of State to withhold payment

27

27.1

The Secretary of State may withhold payment of all or part of the amount
payable to a supplier in respect of a recovery claim amount in the following
circumstances—

27.1.a

if paragraph (2) applies or the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to
suspect that paragraph (2) applies in relation to the supplier or a customer
of the supplier;

27.1.b

if the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe that, by the
application of any regulation in Part 4, any significant amounts are payable
and unpaid or (if that regulation were complied with) would become payable to
the Secretary of State;

27.1.c

if, in relation to any discount recovery claim—

27.1.c.i

the supplier has failed to provide (as required under Chapter 4) supporting
information, or

27.1.c.ii

the Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe that the supporting
information provided is incorrect,

and as a result the Secretary of State is unable to verify any of the amounts
claimed;

27.1.d

if paragraph (4) applies;

27.1.e

if an event of insolvency has occurred in relation to the supplier and the
Secretary of State considers that any amounts will in future become payable by
the supplier to the Secretary of State under the scheme;

27.1.f

if, not more than 30 days before the scheme end date, the Secretary of State
considers it appropriate to establish a reserve in respect of the amounts that
may become payable by the supplier after the scheme end date by the operation
of regulation 29.

27.2

This paragraph applies if, in connection with the scheme, a supplier or a
customer has acted dishonestly, provided materially misleading information, or
failed to take proper measures to prevent or report actual or anticipated
fraud or corruption.

27.3

Where paragraph (2) applies as a result of the acts or omissions of a
customer, the withholding under paragraph (1)(a) may be made only as to that
part of the recovery claim amount referable to that customer’s supply
contract.

27.4

This paragraph applies if—

27.4.a

the Secretary of State considers that a supplier is failing to meet acceptable
standards in the submission of discount recovery claims under the discount
recovery rules,

27.4.b

the Secretary of State has given notice to that effect to the supplier, giving
reasons for the Secretary of State’s view, and requiring the supplier to take
measures to remedy such failings by a date specified in the notice, and

27.4.c

the supplier does not, by that date, satisfy the Secretary of State that it
has taken those measures.

27.5

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(e), “ event of insolvency ” means any of the
following in relation to a supplier—

27.5.a

it is, or is deemed for the purposes of section 123(1)(e) or 123(2) of the
Insolvency Act 1986  to be, unable to pay its debts as they fall due (save
that the words “proved to the satisfaction of the court” are deemed omitted
from such sections);

27.5.b

it admits its insolvency or its inability to pay its debts as they fall due;

27.5.c

it suspends making payments on any of its debts or announces an intention to
do so;

27.5.d

by reason of actual or anticipated financial difficulties, it begins
negotiations with any creditor for the rescheduling or restructuring of any of
its indebtedness;

27.5.e

a moratorium is declared in respect of any of its indebtedness;

27.5.f

any step is taken with a view to a moratorium or a composition, compromise
assignment or arrangement with any of its creditors;

27.5.g

a meeting of its shareholders, directors or other officers is convened for the
purpose of considering any resolution, to petition for or to file documents
with a court or any registrar for its winding-up, administration or
dissolution or any such resolution is passed;

27.5.h

any person presents a petition, or files documents with a court or any
registrar for its winding-up, administration or dissolution or seeking relief
under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, company or similar law other than
any such petition or filing which is frivolous or vexatious and is discharged,
stayed or dismissed within 15 business days;

27.5.i

any liquidator, trustee in bankruptcy, judicial custodian, compulsory manager,
receiver, administrative receiver, administrator or similar officer is
appointed in respect of it or any of its assets;

27.5.j

its shareholders, directors or other officers request the appointment of, or
give notice of their intention to appoint, a liquidator, trustee in
bankruptcy, judicial custodian, compulsory manager, receiver, administrative
receiver, administrator or similar officer in respect of it or any of its
assets;

27.5.k

any other analogous step or procedure is taken in any jurisdiction (whether
England and Wales or elsewhere).

##### Release of amounts withheld

28

28.1

If the Secretary of State withholds payment under regulation 27(1)(b), when it
is—

28.1.a

agreed or determined by the supplier under any provision of Part 4, or

28.1.b

determined by the Secretary of State under regulation 63 or 64,

what amounts (if any) are payable to the Secretary of State as a result of the
application of any regulation in Part 4, the Secretary of State must release
the amount withheld, or so much of it as exceeds any amount agreed or
determined to be so payable, within a reasonable time after such agreement or
determination.

28.2

If—

28.2.a

the Secretary of State withholds payment under regulation 27(1)(c), and

28.2.b

the supplier provides the supporting information or (as the case may be)
correct supporting information,

the Secretary of State must, within a reasonable time, release the amount
withheld or so much, if any, of it as is shown (by such supporting
information) to be payable by the Secretary of State.

28.3

If—

28.3.a

the Secretary of State withholds payment under regulation 27(1)(d), and

28.3.b

the supplier demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that
the supplier has taken the measures referred to in regulation 27(4)(b),

the Secretary of State must, within a reasonable time, release the amount
withheld, less any amount established not to be payable by the Secretary of
State.

28.4

If the Secretary of State withholds payment under regulation 27(1)(e)—

28.4.a

simple interest at base rate runs on the amount withheld from the day
following the day when such amount was otherwise due for payment to the
supplier to the day on which it is paid;

28.4.b

the Secretary of State must release the amount withheld, together with the
accrued interest or so much, if any, of it as exceeds the amounts finally
determined as payable by the supplier, when those amounts are finally
determined.

28.5

If the Secretary of State withholds payment under regulation 27(1)(f)—

28.5.a

simple interest at base rate runs on the amount withheld from the day
following the day when such amount was otherwise due for payment to the
supplier to the day on which it is paid;

28.5.b

the Secretary of State must keep under review the amount withheld in
comparison with the amounts which are payable in consequence of regulation 29
by the supplier or the Secretary of State;

28.5.c

the Secretary of State may release a part of the amount withheld where, on the
basis of the review under sub-paragraph (b), the Secretary of State considers
the amount held in reserve exceeds what is appropriate;

28.5.d

the Secretary of State must release the amount withheld, or so much of it as
remains withheld, together with accrued interest, within 5 business days after
the reconciliation run-off date.

#### Reconciliation run-off

##### Reconciliation run-off

29

29.1

This regulation provides for reconciliation and adjustment to continue, after
the scheme end date, in respect of claims for discount recovery in respect of
periods of supply within the scheme period.

29.2

The provisions of this Part continue to apply, on the basis set out in
paragraph (3), with effect from the scheme end date until the reconciliation
run-off date.

29.3

No day after the scheme end date is counted in any period of supply in respect
of any supply contract, and accordingly there is no base recovery amount in
respect of any period after the scheme end date.

29.4

Unless otherwise permitted by the Secretary of State, a supplier must submit a
discount recovery claim in each claim window in the reconciliation run-off
period.

29.5

The Secretary of State must determine, in respect of each supplier or some or
all suppliers collectively, the date after the scheme end date with effect
from which it is not likely (in the opinion of the Secretary of State) that
any material amounts will be calculated under regulation 23(1)(b), and at
least 10 days before that date give notice to the supplier or suppliers of
that date.

29.6

In this regulation—

29.6.a

the “reconciliation run-off date” in respect of a supplier is the date
determined by the Secretary of State under paragraph (5);

29.6.b

the “reconciliation run-off period” is the period from the day after the
scheme end date to the reconciliation run-off date (both dates inclusive);

29.6.c

the “scheme end date” is—

29.6.c.i

in relation to a person who (as described in regulation 4(3)) ceases to hold
an electricity supply licence or gas supply licence, the date on which it
ceases to hold that licence;

29.6.c.ii

in relation to any other supplier, the last day of the scheme period.

#### Procedure for discount recovery

##### Submission of a valid discount recovery claim

30

30.1

A supplier may apply for discount recovery by submitting a discount recovery
claim to the Secretary of State, setting out—

30.1.a

the date on which the claim is submitted;

30.1.b

the supply contracts in respect of which discount recovery is claimed;

30.1.c

for each such supply contract—

30.1.c.i

the period of supply to which the claim relates, and

30.1.c.ii

the supply contract recovery amount;

30.1.d

any amount carried forward from the preceding discount recovery claim under
regulation 24(3)(b)(i);

30.1.e

the details required under regulation 32 in respect of any supply contract;

30.1.f

details of any opt-out notice which since the preceding discount recovery
claim, or in the case of the first such claim the scheme introduction date,
has been given or withdrawn by a customer under regulation 4(4);

30.1.g

the recovery claim amount.

30.2

A supplier may submit only one discount recovery claim, relating to all supply
contracts for which it claims discount recovery, in any claim window.

30.3

A “valid” discount recovery claim is one that meets the requirements for a
valid discount recovery claim set out in the discount recovery rules.

##### Invalid, erroneous or absent discount recovery claims

31

31.1

Where the Secretary of State considers that a claim submitted by a supplier is
not a valid discount recovery claim the Secretary of State may—

31.1.a

decline to make any payment in respect of it, or

31.1.b

elect to pay part only of the amount claimed,

until the invalidity is corrected or the claim is replaced by a valid discount
recovery claim.

31.2

Where the Secretary of State considers that a discount recovery claim is valid
but any amount set out in the claim is erroneously stated—

31.2.a

the Secretary of State, after taking reasonable steps to resolve the matter
with the supplier, may adjust the amount of the claim to reflect what the
Secretary of State considers to be the correct amount;

31.2.b

the amount payable under regulation 24 by or to the Secretary of State in
respect of the discount recovery claim is the adjusted amount under sub-
paragraph (a).

31.3

If in a claim window a supplier does not submit a discount recovery claim, and
the Secretary of State considers that, if a claim had been submitted on the
last day of the claim window, the recovery claim amount, calculated
disregarding any base recovery amount, would be an amount payable to the
Secretary of State—

31.3.a

the Secretary of State may give notice to the supplier setting out that
recovery claim amount and details of how it was calculated;

31.3.b

the notice is to be treated as a valid discount recovery claim for the
purposes of this Chapter.

##### Reporting details of Part 4 arrangements

32

32.1

A supplier must include, in each discount recovery claim that it submits—

32.1.a

each declaration received from a customer under regulation 38(1)(b) or
43(1)(b) or sent to or received from a customer under regulation 47(2) since
the preceding discount recovery claim (or in the case of the first, since the
scheme introduction date);

32.1.b

details of any customer to which, since the preceding discount recovery claim
(or in the case of the first, since the scheme introduction date), the
supplier has given notice under regulation 38(2)(b) or regulation 43(2)(b)
unless the customer has either sent a declaration (as referred to in sub-
paragraph (a)) or confirmed to the supplier in writing that the Chapter under
which the supplier gave that notice does not apply.

32.2

A supplier must include, in each discount recovery claim that it submits, the
following matters in respect of the period of supply to which the discount
recovery claim relates, and any other period of supply for which such matters
have not been included in a prior discount recovery claim—

32.2.a

in relation to any supply contract in respect of which Chapter 1 or 2 of Part
4 applies, details of each declaration submitted by the customer, and each
determination made by the supplier, under regulation 39(2) or 44(2);

32.2.b

in relation to any supply contract in respect of which Chapter 3 of Part 4
applies, details of each notice given or received by the supplier under
regulation 48(b)(ii) and confirmation that the requirements in regulation
48(c) are being complied with.

##### Discount recovery rules

33

The Secretary of State must make rules which provide for—

33.a

establishing arrangements (including the notification of bank account details)
for the making of payments to and by suppliers under this Part;

33.b

the means by which and form in which a supplier may submit a discount recovery
claim, and any other requirements to be met in respect of the claim for it to
be a valid discount recovery claim;

33.c

the supporting information that a supplier must submit with a discount
recovery claim;

33.d

the review and validation of the claim and initial verification of the
supporting information;

33.e

any adjustment (as provided in regulation 31(2)) of the amount of the claim
following such validation and initial verification;

33.f

the payment of recovery claim amounts;

33.g

the further investigation and verification of discount recovery claims after
payment has been made;

33.h

the correction of errors identified by such further investigation and
verification;

33.i

such other matters as the Secretary of State considers appropriate in relation
to the process of discount recovery.

##### Claim windows for discount recovery

34

34.1

Subject to paragraph (2), the discount recovery rules must set out the claim
windows, by specifying the first and last day of each claim window, such that—

34.1.a

the first claim window ends not more than 15 days after the scheme
introduction date;

34.1.b

each other claim window starts on the day after the previous claim window
ends;

34.1.c

the last claim window starts not less than 24 months after the scheme period
ends (but this is without prejudice to the determination by the Secretary of
State of the reconciliation run-off date);

34.1.d

two claim windows start in each calendar month (except the month in which the
first claim window starts, if it starts after the 10th day of that month).

34.2

In respect of the period after 14th April 2023—

34.2.a

the discount recovery rules may provide—

34.2.a.i

for the dates of claim windows to be determined and published by the Secretary
of State at intervals determined by the Secretary of State, and

34.2.a.ii

that after the Secretary of State has given notice under regulation 29(5) of
the last reconciliation run-off date in respect of any supplier, the Secretary
of State need not determine and publish the dates of any claim window that
starts after that date;

34.2.b

in determining the dates of claim windows under paragraph (a)(i), the
Secretary of State may allow up to 6 months to elapse between the dates on
which successive claims windows start;

34.2.c

the requirement in paragraph (1)(b) does not apply, but each claim window must
be a period of at least 8 business days.

34.3

The dates of claim windows determined in accordance with a rule made under
paragraph (2)(a)(i) must be published at least 15 days in advance of the end
of each such claim window.

##### Delegation of functions related to discount discovery

35

35.1

The Secretary of State may delegate to any person the performance of any of
the Secretary of State’s functions under the discount recovery rules.

35.2

Where, in performing those functions, the delegate is required to make or
receive any payment or give or receive any communication to or from suppliers,
the Secretary of State must give notice of the delegation identifying the
functions which the delegate is to perform.

35.3

A notice of delegation under paragraph (2) may specify that paragraph (4)
applies, subject to any limitations or conditions in the notice, in relation
to the delegate.

35.4

Where this paragraph applies, subject to what is provided in the notice of
delegation (and without prejudice to any provision of any contract between the
delegate and any person), the delegate is not liable in damages for anything
done or omitted to be done by it in the exercise or purported exercise of the
functions delegated to it.

### Adjustment of discount or supply quantity in certain cases

#### Arrangements in respect of customer’s financial exposure to wholesale price

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

36

For the purposes of this Chapter—

36.a

“ arrangement benefit ” has the meaning given in regulation 39(1)(a);

36.b

“ balancing services ” means a customer varying its consumption of energy in
order to provide a service—

36.b.i

to a person holding a transmission licence, in connection with the balancing
of flows of electricity onto and off a transmission system, or

36.b.ii

to a gas transporter, in connection with the balancing of flows of gas into
and out of a pipe-line system;

36.c

in paragraph (b)—

36.c.i

“gas transporter” and “pipe-line system” have the meanings given to them in
section 5(10) of the Gas Act 1986 ;

36.c.ii

“ transmission licence ” has the meaning given in section 6(1)(b) of the
Electricity Act 1989 ;

36.c.iii

“ transmission system ” has the meaning given to it in section 4(4) of that
Act 1989 ;

36.d

“ Chapter 1 arrangement ” means an arrangement of the kind described in
regulation 37(1)(b) and (2);

36.e

“ contract financial exposure ” has the meaning given in regulation 37(1)(b);

36.f

a “declaration period” is the period between the initial declaration date and
the first periodic declaration date, or between a later periodic declaration
date and the next periodic declaration date;

36.g

“ effective financial exposure ” has the meaning given in regulation 37(1)(b);

36.h

the “initial declaration date” in respect of a supply contract is the later
of—

36.h.i

the scheme introduction date, if on that date the customer has made a Chapter
1 arrangement and is party to the supply contract, and

36.h.ii

such later date on which the customer—

36.h.ii.aa

enters into the supply contract, having already made a Chapter 1 arrangement,
or

36.h.ii.bb

makes a Chapter 1 arrangement, being already a party to the supply contract;

36.i

“periodic declaration dates” are dates chosen by the supplier, falling at
intervals of not more than 31 days, of which the first must be not more than
31 days after the initial declaration date and the last must be the last day
of the scheme period.

##### Application of this Chapter

37

37.1

This Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract where—

37.1.a

it may reasonably be expected that—

37.1.a.i

the quantity of energy supplied to the customer at the premises to which the
supply contract relates in the 12 month period starting on 1st October 2022
will exceed 0.5 gigawatt hours, or

37.1.a.ii

the maximum rate at which energy is supplied under the contract at any time
will exceed 0.5 megawatts, and

37.1.b

the customer has made arrangements, otherwise than in a supply contract, by
virtue of which the customer’s overall financial exposure to the wholesale
price of energy supplied to it in any period within the scheme period (the
“effective financial exposure”) differs from its financial exposure in that
period to the contracted wholesale price under the supply contract (the
“contract financial exposure”).

37.2

The ways in which a customer may make an arrangement of the kind described in
paragraph (1)(b) include entering into—

37.2.a

financial instruments in respect of the wholesale price of energy;

37.2.b

arrangements under which the customer obtains a benefit from the provision of
balancing services;

37.2.c

in connection with the electricity scheme, arrangements under which the
customer obtains a benefit by exporting electricity to an electricity system.

##### Customer declaration where this Chapter applies

38

38.1

A customer must, as soon as practicable and in any event within 21 days after
the initial declaration date—

38.1.a

determine whether this Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract to
which it is party;

38.1.b

if it so determines, send to the supplier a declaration to that effect.

38.2

A supplier must, when it enters into a supply contract, or for a supply
contract which it has entered into before the scheme introduction date, within
45 days after the scheme introduction date—

38.2.a

determine whether either of the circumstances in regulation 37(1)(a) applies;

38.2.b

if so, give the customer notice of that determination, drawing this Chapter to
the attention of the customer, unless the customer has already sent a
declaration under paragraph (1)(b).

##### Adjustment of discount

39

39.1

In respect of any period and supply contract in respect of which Chapter 1
arrangements apply—

39.1.a

subject to paragraph (d), the “arrangement benefit” is the amount determined
as—

  CFE - EFE             Where for that period—           CFE is the contract
financial exposure;           EFE is the effective financial exposure;

      the “ unit arrangement benefit ” (expressed in p/kWh) is the arrangement
benefit (expressed in pence) divided by the supply quantity in respect of that
period;           the reference wholesale price applicable to the supply
contract in that period is determined as—       RWP' - UAB             Where—
RWP’ is the price that would otherwise be determined (under regulation 10 or
in accordance with regulation 11) as the reference wholesale price;
UAB is the unit arrangement benefit;                       in relation to a
variable price contract, if the term {CFE – EFE} in paragraph (a) is negative,
the arrangement benefit in respect of that period is zero.

39.2

Where this Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract—

39.2.a

the supplier must, as soon as practicable after receiving the customer’s
declaration under regulation 38(1)(b), give notice to the customer of each
periodic declaration date and the declaration period for each such date;

39.2.b

the customer must, as soon as practicable and in any event within 14 days
after each periodic declaration date, determine and send to the supplier a
declaration of the amount of the arrangement benefit in respect of the
relevant declaration period, unless the arrangement benefit is less than £100
per day of the declaration period;

39.2.c

the supplier must, on the basis of the arrangement benefit declared in each
such declaration—

39.2.c.i

calculate the unit arrangement benefit for the declaration period;

39.2.c.ii

calculate the reference wholesale price under paragraph (1)(c);

39.2.c.iii

calculate the base discount rate under regulations 18 and 19 on the basis of
that wholesale reference price;

39.2.c.iv

determine or redetermine its charges for energy supplied in the declaration
period on the basis of that discount.

39.3

Where this Chapter applies and the customer is party to more than one supply
contract, the effect of the Chapter 1 arrangements is to be determined in
respect of the supply contracts collectively and the arrangement benefit is to
be allocated between the supply contracts on an appropriate basis.

39.4

The contract parties may agree a basis on which an estimate of the arrangement
benefit will be used in determining charges for a billing period before (and
with a subsequent reconciliation when) the steps in paragraph (2) are
completed.

##### Rules in relation to this Chapter

40

The Secretary of State may make rules about—

40.a

the kinds of arrangements which fall or do not fall, or factors which indicate
whether arrangements fall or do not fall, within regulation 37(1)(b);

40.b

the basis on which arrangement benefit in respect of any period is to be
determined;

40.c

the basis on which arrangement benefit is to be allocated between supply
contracts under regulation 39(3);

40.d

the form and content of any declaration to be made by the customer.

#### Arrangements for customer to deliver electricity to the grid

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

41

For the purposes of this Chapter—

41.a

“ Chapter 2 arrangement ” means an arrangement of the kind described in
regulation 42(1)(b);

41.b

a “declaration period” is the period between the initial declaration date and
the first periodic declaration date, or between a later periodic declaration
date and the next periodic declaration date;

41.c

the “initial declaration date” in respect of a supply contract is the later
of—

41.c.i

the scheme introduction date, if on that date the customer has made a Chapter
2 arrangement and is party to the supply contract, and

41.c.ii

such later date on which the customer—

41.c.ii.aa

enters into the supply contract, having already made a Chapter 2 arrangement,
or

41.c.ii.bb

makes a Chapter 2 arrangement, being already a party to the supply contract;

41.d

“periodic declaration dates” are dates chosen by the supplier, falling at
intervals of not more than one month, of which the first must be not more than
31 days after the initial declaration date and the last must be the last day
of the scheme period;

41.e

references to the storage of electricity include the use of electricity to
create potential energy which is used at a different time to generate
electricity.

##### Application of this Chapter

42

42.1

This Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract, subject to paragraph 2,
where—

42.1.a

it may reasonably be expected that—

42.1.a.i

the quantity of energy supplied to the customer at the premises to which the
supply contract relates in the 12 month period starting on 1st October 2022
will exceed 0.5 gigawatt hours, or

42.1.a.ii

the maximum rate at which energy is supplied under the contract at any time
will exceed 0.5 megawatts, and

42.1.b

the customer has made arrangements under which—

42.1.b.i

gas supplied to the customer under the supply contract may be used for the
purpose of generating electricity (whether or not in conjunction with the
production of heat), or

42.1.b.ii

electricity supplied to the customer under the supply contract may be stored
by or for the customer, and

in either case, some or all of the electricity generated or stored, may be
delivered to an electricity system (such electricity being “grid-delivered”).

42.2

This Chapter does not apply where—

42.2.a

the capacity of the facility in which electricity supplied to the customer
under the supply contract and generated or stored as described in paragraph
(1)(b) is not material;

42.2.b

the quantities in which that electricity is or may be delivered to an
electricity system are not material;

42.2.c

the application of this Chapter would be disproportionate, having regard to
the complexity of determining ineligible quantities and to the capacity or
quantities referred to in sub-paragraphs (a) or (b).

##### Customer declaration where this Chapter applies

43

43.1

A customer must, as soon as practicable and in any event within 21 days after
the initial declaration date—

43.1.a

determine whether this Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract to
which it is party;

43.1.b

if it so determines, send to the supplier a declaration to that effect.

43.2

A supplier must, when it enters into a supply contract, or for a supply
contract which it has entered into before the scheme introduction date, within
45 days after the scheme introduction date—

43.2.a

determine whether either of the circumstances in regulation 42(1)(a) applies,
and

43.2.b

if so, give the customer notice of that determination, drawing this Chapter to
the attention of the customer, unless the customer has already sent a
declaration under paragraph (1)(b).

##### Determination of ineligible quantity

44

44.1

Where this Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract, that part of—

44.1.a

the quantity of gas supplied in any period which was used to generate grid-
delivered electricity; or

44.1.b

the quantity of electricity supplied in any period which, having been stored,
was grid-delivered (together with a corresponding proportion of the
electricity used or lost in storage),

is an “ ineligible quantity ” for the purposes of the scheme.

44.2

Where this Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract—

44.2.a

the supplier must as soon as practicable after receiving the customer’s
declaration under regulation 43(1)(b) give notice to the customer of each
periodic declaration date and the declaration period for each such date;

44.2.b

the customer must, as soon as practicable and in any event within 14 days
after each periodic declaration date, determine and send to the supplier a
declaration of the quantity of electricity  or gas   supplied in the relevant
declaration period which is an ineligible quantity;

44.2.c

the supplier must, on the basis of the ineligible quantity declared in each
such declaration—

44.2.c.i

determine the amount of the supply quantity for the declaration period to
which the discounted supply price is to apply;

44.2.c.ii

determine or redetermine its charges for energy supplied in the declaration
period accordingly.

44.3

The contract parties may agree a basis on which—

44.3.a

an estimate of the ineligible quantity will be used in determining charges for
a billing period before the steps in paragraph (2) are completed; and

44.3.b

a subsequent reconciliation will be performed when those steps are completed.

##### Rules in relation to this Chapter

45

The Secretary of State may make rules about—

45.a

the kinds of arrangements which fall or do not fall, or factors which indicate
whether arrangements fall or do not fall, within regulation 42(1)(b);

45.b

the circumstances in which, by virtue of regulation 42(2), this Chapter does
not apply;

45.c

the basis on which it is to be determined what part of the quantity of gas or
electricity supplied is an ineligible quantity;

45.d

the basis on which a proportion (corresponding to the grid-delivered quantity)
of electricity used or lost in storage is to be determined;

45.e

the form and content of a declaration to be made by the customer.

#### Abuse of scheme

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

46

In this Chapter—

46.a

“ abusive arrangement ” means an arrangement of the kind described in
regulation 47(1);

46.b

“ benefit of the scheme ” means the amount by which the charges to a customer
for energy supplied under a supply contract are reduced under the scheme;

46.c

the “ declaration date ”, in relation to an abusive arrangement, is—

46.c.i

the date on which the abusive arrangement is made, or

46.c.ii

if the abusive arrangement was made before the scheme introduction date, the
scheme introduction date;

46.d

in relation to an abusive arrangement, “ relevant party ” means—

46.d.i

the supplier, if it is party to the abusive arrangement;

46.d.ii

otherwise, the customer.

##### Application of this Chapter and declaration of abusive arrangement

47

47.1

This Chapter applies in respect of a supply contract if either the customer or
the supplier or each of them is party to an arrangement the purpose or main
purpose of which is to achieve an increase in the benefit of the scheme (an
“abusive arrangement”).

47.2

Where this Chapter applies in relation to a supply contract, each contract
party which is party to the abusive arrangement must, as soon as practicable
and in any event within 21 days after the declaration date, send to the other
contract party a declaration to that effect.

##### Reduction of discount

48

If in relation to a supply contract either the customer or the supplier is
party to an abusive arrangement—

48.a

the base discount is to be reduced by such amount as will ensure that the
benefit of the scheme is not increased by that arrangement;

48.b

the relevant party must promptly and as frequently as is required to give
effect to this regulation—

48.b.i

determine the reduction in the discount required under paragraph (a);

48.b.ii

give notice of that reduction to the other contract party;

48.c

the supplier must—

48.c.i

reduce the base discount by the amount determined under paragraph (a);

48.c.ii

determine or redetermine its charges for energy supplied accordingly.

##### Rules in relation to this Chapter

49

The Secretary of State may make rules about—

49.a

the kinds of arrangements which are or are not, or factors which indicate
whether arrangements are or are not, abusive arrangements;

49.b

the determination of the amount by which the benefit of the scheme is
increased by an abusive arrangement;

49.c

how the discount is to be reduced to ensure such increase is not achieved.

### Qualifying financially disadvantaged customers

#### Interpretation of this Chapter

50

In this Part—

      “ qualifying amount ” means any amount payable by a customer to a
supplier under a supply contract, that is not an amount payable in respect of
value added tax or climate change levy;           “ qualifying supply ” means
energy that a supplier supplies to a qualifying financially disadvantaged
customer under a variable price contract during—         the period beginning
15 days after the scheme introduction date and ending on 31st March 2023, or
if the customer is a QFDC of the supplier only for a part of that period, that
part of that period;                 “ required reductions ” has the meaning
given in regulation 52(1);           “ required reductions rules ” means rules
made under regulation 52.

#### Qualifying financially disadvantaged customers

51

51.1

Subject to paragraph (2), for the purposes of this Part, a customer that was a
customer of a supplier on the scheme commencement date is a “qualifying
financially disadvantaged customer” or “QFDC” of the supplier if, and for so
long, during the scheme period, as—

51.1.a

it continues to be a customer of the supplier on and after the scheme
introduction date, and

51.1.b

the supplier supplies it with energy under a deemed contract or an out-of-
contract contract.

51.2

A customer is not a QFDC for the purposes of this Part if, and for so long,
during the scheme period, as—

51.2.a

any qualifying amount due and payable by it under its supply contract has been
unpaid for more than 28 days after it became payable, and

51.2.b

in respect of that amount—

51.2.b.i

the customer has not proposed or accepted a plan for payment, or

51.2.b.ii

such a plan has been agreed, but the customer has failed to make two or more
payments when they fell due under the plan.

#### Rules in relation to this Part

52

52.1

The Secretary of State must, no later than 14 days after the scheme
introduction date, make rules (“required reductions rules”) about further
reductions that suppliers are to apply under regulation 53(1)(b), in addition
to any discount applied under regulation 19(1)(b), to the qualifying amounts
payable by QFDCs (“required reductions”).

52.2

The purpose of the required reductions rules is to mitigate the financial
disadvantage otherwise experienced by QFDCs in obtaining an affordable supply
of energy.

52.3

The required reductions rules—

52.3.a

must specify—

52.3.a.i

the required reductions, or

52.3.a.ii

a methodology for determining them, and

52.3.b

must provide for required reductions to be specified or determined—

52.3.b.i

by reference to qualifying amounts, and

52.3.b.ii

in p/kWh, in pounds, or as a percentage.

52.4

The required reductions rules may provide—

52.4.a

that where specified conditions are satisfied, the amount of a required
reduction is reduced (or that no required reduction is applicable);

52.4.b

that required reductions are to be different in different cases, as specified
in or determined under the rules;

52.4.c

for the Secretary of State or suppliers to publish required reductions.

#### Reduction in qualifying amounts payable by qualifying financially disadvantaged customers

53

53.1

A supplier must, in respect of any billing period in which it makes a
qualifying supply—

53.1.a

identify which of its customers are QFDCs for some or all of that period;

53.1.b

for as much of the billing period as a QFDC is a QFDC, apply the required
reductions, as specified in or determined under the required reductions rules,
to the qualifying amounts payable by it in respect of its qualifying supply;

53.1.c

inform each QFDC in respect of whose qualifying supply it has applied the
required reductions of the amount of such reductions, or the basis on which
they can be determined, either in, or within 15 days of issuing, an invoice or
other statement account in respect of that period.

53.2

If a supplier issues an invoice or statement of account to a QFDC in respect
of any billing period in which it makes a qualifying supply without having
applied the required reductions in accordance with paragraph (1)(b), it must
as soon as practicable—

53.2.a

revise the invoice or statement or issue a credit note to reflect the required
reductions, and

53.2.b

if the customer pays any amount in respect of such invoice or statement, it
must credit to the customer’s account the amount by which such payment exceeds
what was payable on the basis of the required reductions, or at the customer’s
request reimburse such amount to the customer.

#### Terms of supply to qualifying financially disadvantaged customers

54

If a supplier changes the terms on which it provides a qualifying supply, the
terms applicable to that qualifying supply immediately after that change must
not be less favourable to the QFDC than those applicable to it immediately
before the change.

### Further provisions

#### Duties of suppliers in connection with the scheme

##### Increases in charges and other changes in relation to supply contracts

55

55.1

A supplier must not, in respect of energy supplied under a supply contract,
unreasonably—

55.1.a

increase the rates at which it charges qualifying amounts,

55.1.b

expose a customer to any additional risk, or

55.1.c

change—

55.1.c.i

the terms of the supply contract;

55.1.c.ii

the terms on which the supplier offers to enter into supply contracts;

55.1.c.iii

the process by which prices or charges payable under supply contracts are set;

55.1.c.iv

the way in which the supplier exercises its rights under its supply contracts,

so that any of them are less favourable to the customer.

55.2

For the purposes of determining whether a supplier has behaved unreasonably in
doing any of the things referred to in paragraph (1)(a) to (c)—

55.2.a

a supplier’s conduct is, in particular, unreasonable if, and to the extent
that, the conduct, or the supplier’s ability to retain the customer as a
customer while engaging in it, is facilitated by the existence or operation of
the scheme;

55.2.b

it is, in particular, reasonable for a supplier to increase its charges—

55.2.b.i

to its customers collectively, by an amount that in aggregate does not exceed
the efficiently incurred costs of complying with these Regulations;

55.2.b.ii

to any customer, by an amount that does not exceed its fair and reasonable
share of such efficiently incurred costs (but this does not entitle a supplier
to increase the qualifying amounts payable by a QFDC above the levels
resulting from the application of regulation 53(1)(b)).

#### Deemed terms of supply contracts

##### Deemed terms of supply contracts

56

56.1

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), terms to the following effect are implied
into a supply contract—

56.1.a

that in respect of energy supplied under the contract during the scheme
period, the supply price is reduced by the discount as required under Part 2
and Part 4;

56.1.b

if the customer is a qualifying financially disadvantaged customer, that the
qualifying amounts payable by it are reduced as required under regulation
53(1)(b);

56.1.c

that where the application of the Regulations changes the discount or a
quantity of energy to which the discount applies, the rights and obligations
of the supplier and customer in respect of payment for energy supplied are
determined, or as necessary redetermined, so as to reflect such change in
discount or quantity;

56.1.d

that no term of the contract, and no act or omission on the part of the
customer, is to be construed as entitling the supplier to require the
customer, at any time or in any circumstances—

56.1.d.i

to pay a greater amount than the supplier would have been entitled to require
it to pay if acting in accordance with the Regulations, or

56.1.d.ii

to be otherwise subject to terms that it would not have been lawful under the
Regulations for the supplier to have included in a supply contract,

in respect of any energy supplied by the supplier in the scheme period;

56.1.e

that nothing done by the supplier or the customer in order to comply with
these Regulations or rules made under them, or in following guidance issued by
the Secretary of State in relation to the scheme, is a breach of any provision
of the contract;

56.1.f

that none of: the coming into force of the Act, the making of these
Regulations or rules under them, or the issuing of guidance by the Secretary
of State in relation to the scheme, is—

56.1.f.i

a change in the law for the purposes of any provision (however expressed) of
the contract which permits the supplier to increase its prices or charges or
take any other action in consequence of a change in the law;

56.1.f.ii

an event or circumstance which under any provision of the contract (however
expressed) excuses the supplier or the customer from performance of its
obligations, or from liability for failure to perform its obligations, under
the contract.

56.2

In paragraph (1)(b), the reference to—

56.2.a

the application of the Regulations includes the making or revision of any
determination or other decision under the Regulations;

56.2.b

a change includes a change applying in respect of energy already supplied to
the customer;

56.2.c

rights and obligations include rights and obligations for adjustment of
charges already made or paid.

56.3

Paragraph (1) does not apply to an excluded fixed price contract or a supply
contract for which an opt-out notice has been given, and has not been
withdrawn, under regulation 4(4).

56.4

None of the terms listed in paragraph (1) is to be construed as preventing a
supplier from increasing its charges to a customer in order to recover the
costs of complying with Parts 2 and 3 if and to the extent it is permitted to
do so under the terms of its supply contract, its electricity supply licence
or gas supply licence, and regulation 55(2)(b).

#### Reporting, information requests and audit

##### Regular reporting by suppliers

57

57.1

The Secretary of State may by notice require suppliers to provide to the
Secretary of State at specified intervals a report about the operation of the
scheme as respects the supplier and its customers.

57.2

The notice shall specify—

57.2.a

the matters which are to be included in the report;

57.2.b

the dates when the report is to be provided.

57.3

The Secretary of State may by further notice modify, revoke or replace a
notice given under paragraph (1).

57.4

A supplier must provide reports as required by the notice.

##### Information requests

58

58.1

Where the Secretary of State considers it necessary or expedient to do so for
any of the purposes set out in regulation 60, the Secretary of State may give
notice to any supplier or any customer requiring it, by a time specified in
the notice—

58.1.a

to produce to the Secretary of State or a person nominated by the Secretary of
State any document specified, or of a description specified, in the notice
that is held by that supplier or customer, or

58.1.b

to provide to the Secretary of State or a person nominated by the Secretary of
State, such information as may be specified or described in the notice.

58.2

No person is to be compelled under this regulation to produce any document
which they could not be compelled to produce in civil proceedings in the court
or to provide any information which they could not be compelled to give in
evidence in any such proceedings.

##### Audit

59

59.1

Where the Secretary of State considers it appropriate to do so for the
purposes set out in regulation 60(a), (b) or (c), the Secretary of State may
by notice to a supplier require that an audit of the books, records, systems,
processes and methodologies of the supplier is performed by a suitably
qualified person (the “auditor”) appointed by the Secretary of State.

59.2

Where the Secretary of State requires an audit to be performed under paragraph
(1)—

59.2.a

the supplier shall procure for the auditor access to its personnel, books,
records, systems, processes and methodologies sufficient for performance of
the audit;

59.2.b

the audit shall be performed so far as practicable without causing disruption
to the supplier in carrying on its business;

59.2.c

the costs of the auditor are to be borne by the Secretary of State.

##### Purposes for which powers under this Chapter may be exercised

60

The purposes are—

60.a

ascertaining whether any provision of the Regulations is being complied with;

60.b

ascertaining whether pursuant to any provision of Part 3 or Part 4, any
significant amount—

60.b.i

is payable to, or

60.b.ii

upon that provision being complied with, would become payable to, or would not
be payable by,

the Secretary of State;

60.c

otherwise ensuring the proper accounting for, tracing or control of public
money in discount recovery;

60.d

obtaining information in connection with any review, including a review under
section 9(5) of the Act, by the Secretary of State of the operation and
effects of the scheme;

60.e

otherwise obtaining information in connection with the exercise of any of the
functions of the Secretary of State in or under these Regulations.

##### Application of data protection legislation

61

61.1

Nothing in these Regulations authorises or requires a disclosure of
information if the disclosure would contravene the data protection
legislation, as defined in section 3 of the Data Protection Act 2018 .

61.2

In determining whether a disclosure would contravene that legislation, the
powers conferred and duties imposed by regulations 57 to 59 are to be taken
into account.

#### Certain determinations made under the Regulations

##### Interpretation of this Chapter

62

62.1

In this Chapter—

62.1.a

“ applicant ” in relation to a review request, means the supplier or, under
regulation 65(1), customer making the request;

62.1.b

reference to a “ determination ” includes a redetermination;

62.1.c

“ Part 2 or Part 4 matter ” means any matter which is to be determined or
declared in relation to a supply contract by a supplier or customer under Part
2 or Part 4;

62.1.d

“ Part 3 decision ” means a decision by the Secretary of State—

62.1.d.i

under regulation 27, to withhold payment to a supplier of any amount in
respect of a recovery claim amount;

62.1.d.ii

under regulation 28, as to the release of an amount withheld under regulation
27;

62.1.d.iii

under regulation 29, as to the reconciliation cut-off date in relation to any
supplier;

62.1.d.iv

under regulation 31(1), to decline to make payment (in whole or part) in
respect of a discount recovery claim on the grounds of invalidity;

62.1.d.v

under regulation 31(2), to adjust the amount of a discount recovery claim;

62.1.d.vi

under regulation 31(3), to give a notice that is to be treated as a discount
recovery claim;

62.1.e

“ other party ” in relation to a review request under regulation 65(1), means
the contract party which is not the applicant;

62.1.f

“ reconsidered decision ” has the meaning given in regulation 65(4)(c)(i);

62.1.g

“ relevant decision ” in relation to a review request, means the determination
or decision in respect of which the request is made;

62.1.h

a “review request” is a request made to the Secretary of State under
regulation 65(1) or (2).

62.2

For the purposes of this Chapter a referral under regulation 63 or a review
request does not meet the applicable threshold if—

62.2.a

it is vexatious or frivolous,

62.2.b

the financial consequences for the applicant or (where applicable) the other
party of a determination under regulation 63(3) or a reconsidered decision
would not be material, or

62.2.c

the referral or review request is not made within a period which (in all the
circumstances) is reasonable after—

62.2.c.i

the customer was notified or otherwise informed of the supplier’s
determination referred to in regulation 63(1)(a), or

62.2.c.ii

(as the case may be) the relevant decision was made.

##### Referrals in respect of disagreement between contract parties

63

63.1

Where, in relation to a supply contract, the customer disagrees with a
determination made by the supplier in respect of a Part 2 or Part 4 matter—

63.1.a

the customer may, within a reasonable time after the supplier gave notice to
or otherwise informed the customer of the determination, give notice to the
supplier setting out what it disagrees with and explaining why it does;

63.1.b

following such notice the customer and the supplier must endeavour to resolve
the disagreement, but this does not require or entitle the supplier to make
any determination which is not consistent with these Regulations.

63.2

If the disagreement is resolved, the supplier shall, if such resolution so
requires, redetermine the matter in question and give a revised notice to or
otherwise inform the customer of such redetermination accordingly.

63.3

If the disagreement is not resolved within a reasonable time after the notice
was given—

63.3.a

the supplier’s determination shall remain effective, and the relevant matter
shall be determined on the basis of what is said in the notice, pending any
determination pursuant to a reference under sub-paragraph (b);

63.3.b

the supplier or the customer may refer the matter for determination by the
Secretary of State;

63.3.c

the Regulations shall apply in relation to the supply contract on the basis of
the determination made by the Secretary of State and the contract parties
shall comply with that determination.

63.4

The Secretary of State may decline to determine a matter referred under this
regulation where the Secretary of State considers that the referral does not
meet the applicable threshold, by giving notice to that effect to the contract
parties setting out the reasons for so considering.

##### Power of the Secretary of State to make determinations

64

64.1

This regulation applies if the Secretary of State considers that, in relation
to a supply contract—

64.1.a

a determination by the supplier of any Part 2 or Part 4 matter, or a
declaration by the customer in respect of a Part 4 matter, is not in
conformity with the Regulations or is otherwise incorrect, or

64.1.b

a determination by the supplier or declaration by the customer which should
have been made in respect of a Part 2 or Part 4 matter has not been made.

64.2

Where this regulation applies the Secretary of State may determine the Part 2
or Part 4 matter in question by giving notice of such determination to the
contract parties.

64.3

Before making a determination under this regulation the Secretary of State
must—

64.3.a

give notice to the contract parties—

64.3.a.i

setting out the matter in question;

64.3.a.ii

setting out the reasons for which the Secretary of State proposes to make a
determination;

64.3.a.iii

setting out the determination which the Secretary of State proposes to make;

64.3.a.iv

inviting the contract parties to make representations in respect of the
proposal by a time specified in the notice;

64.3.b

consider any representations made and not withdrawn by either contract party
by that time.

64.4

The Regulations apply, in relation to the supply contract, on the basis of the
determination made by the Secretary of State and the contract parties must
comply with that determination.

##### Review of decisions of the Secretary of State

65

65.1

A supplier or a customer may request the Secretary of State to review a
determination made by the Secretary of State under regulation 63 or 64 in
respect of a Part 2 or Part 4 matter.

65.2

A supplier may request the Secretary of State to review a Part 3 decision.

65.3

The Secretary of State may decline to review a relevant decision where the
Secretary of State considers that the request does not meet the applicable
threshold, by giving notice to that effect to the applicant setting out the
Secretary of State’s reasons for so considering.

65.4

Except as provided in paragraph (3), upon receiving a review request, the
Secretary of State must—

65.4.a

where the request relates to the determination of a Part 2 or Part 4 matter,
give the other party a reasonable opportunity to submit its views on the
determination;

65.4.b

reconsider the relevant decision;

65.4.c

give notice to the applicant and (where applicable) the other party of—

65.4.c.i

the outcome of the reconsideration (the “reconsidered decision”), and

65.4.c.ii

the reasons for the reconsidered decision.

65.5

The reconsidered decision is final and binding on the applicant and (where
applicable) the other party, and a court may entertain proceedings for
questioning the decision only if the proceedings are brought by a claim for
judicial review.

##### Rules in relation to this Chapter

66

66.1

The Secretary of State must, no later than 14 days after the scheme
introduction date, make rules setting out procedures for—

66.1.a

a supplier or customer to make a referral under regulation 63;

66.1.b

the Secretary of State to determine a matter referred under regulation 63;

66.1.c

the Secretary of State to determine a matter under regulation 64;

66.1.d

a supplier or customer to request a review under regulation 65(1);

66.1.e

a supplier to request a review under regulation 65(2);

66.1.f

the Secretary of State to reconsider a relevant decision under regulation 65.

66.2

The rules may specify—

66.2.a

time periods within which any step to be taken in respect of a referral or
review request must be taken;

66.2.b

thresholds of materiality for the purposes of regulation 62(2)(b).

#### Enforcement

##### Supplier obligations enforceable as relevant requirements

67

67.1

The obligations of suppliers under the following provisions are enforceable by
GEMA as if they were relevant requirements on a regulated person for the
purposes of section 25 of the Electricity Act 1989  or section 28 of the Gas
Act 1986 —

67.1.a

Chapters 2 and 3 of Part 2;

67.1.b

Part 4;

67.1.c

Part 5;

67.1.d

Chapters 1, 2 and 3 of this Part.

67.2

Paragraph (1) applies in respect of a person which has ceased to hold an
electricity supply licence or gas supply licence as described in regulation
4(3).

67.3

For the purposes of considering whether a supplier has contravened any
obligation enforceable under paragraph (1), no—

67.3.a

determination of the Secretary of State under regulation 63 or 64;

67.3.b

reconsidered decision of the Secretary of State under regulation 65,

shall be called into question.

67.4

Where it appears to the Secretary of State that a supplier may be
contravening, or may have contravened, any of the requirements referred to in
paragraph (1) the Secretary of State may so inform GEMA.

##### Civil penalties for customers

68

68.1

A customer is liable to the civil penalty referred to in paragraph (4) where
the customer fails to make a relevant declaration by the required time.

68.2

A customer is liable to the civil penalty referred to in paragraph (5) where
the information in a relevant declaration made by the customer is defective.

68.3

But the customer is not liable—

68.3.a

to the civil penalty referred to in paragraph (4), if the customer
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it had a
reasonable excuse for failing to make the relevant declaration by the required
time or (in the case of paragraphs (4)(b) and (c)) within the relevant period
after the required time (but see paragraph 12);

68.3.b

to the civil penalty referred to in paragraph (5), if the customer
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that it took
reasonable care to ensure that the information in the relevant declaration was
not defective.

68.4

For the purposes of paragraph (1) the civil penalty is—

68.4.a

£1,000 for failure to make a relevant declaration by the required time;

68.4.b

an additional £1,000 for failure to make a relevant declaration within 28 days
after the required time;

68.4.c

an additional civil penalty equal to 10 per cent of the default amount, for
failure to make a relevant declaration within a further 30 days after that 28
days.

68.5

For the purposes of paragraph (2) the civil penalty is 10 per cent of the
default amount.

68.6

If the Secretary of State considers that a customer is liable to the civil
penalty referred to in paragraph (4) or (5) the Secretary of State must impose
the civil penalty on the person by giving a notice (a “penalty notice”) to the
customer.

68.7

The penalty notice must set out—

68.7.a

the grounds for liability;

68.7.b

the amount of the penalty;

68.7.c

the date by which the penalty must be paid (the “ due date ”), which must not
be less than 28 days after the day on which the notice is given;

68.7.d

how payment may be made;

68.7.e

information about rights of appeal.

68.8

The customer to whom a penalty notice is given must pay the civil penalty set
out in the notice as set out in the notice on or before the due date.

68.9

A civil penalty imposed by a penalty notice is recoverable by the Secretary of
State as a civil debt.

68.10

A customer may appeal to the court against the imposition of a civil penalty.

68.11

In this regulation—

68.11.a

“ default amount ” means the amount by which the charges for energy supplied
to the customer in the default period are increased as a result of the
application of Part 4 following the making of the relevant declaration or the
correction of the defective declaration;

68.11.b

in paragraph (a) the “default period” is the period between—

68.11.b.i

the required time or (as the case may be) the making of a defective
declaration, and

68.11.b.ii

the time when the declaration was made or (as the case may be) a declaration
which is not defective was made, or (if earlier) the end of the scheme period;

68.11.c

a declaration is “defective” where it is false or materially misleading or
incomplete;

68.11.d

“ penalty notice ” has the meaning given in paragraph (5);

68.11.e

“ relevant declaration ” means a declaration required to be made by a customer
under Part 4;

68.11.f

“ required time ” means the time by which, under the relevant provision of
Part 4, a customer was required to make a relevant declaration.

68.12

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(a) it is not a reasonable excuse that a
supplier did not inform the customer of a determination under regulation
38(2)(b) or 43(2)(b), or send a declaration under regulation 47(2).

#### Notices

##### Notices

69

69.1

Any notice or other communication to be given by the Secretary of State, a
supplier or a customer under these Regulations must be given in writing.

69.2

Any notice to be given by the Secretary of State under the Regulations (unless
it is to be given to a particular supplier or customer) may be given by the
Secretary of State publishing the notice in such manner as the Secretary of
State considers appropriate.

      Graham Stuart   Minister of State for Climate   Department for Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations, which apply in Great Britain, establish the Energy Bill
Relief Scheme for Non-Domestic Customers in Great Britain (“ EBRS ”). EBRS is
a scheme for reducing the costs, to non-domestic customers, of being supplied
with electricity or gas (“energy”) by a supplier that holds a supply licence
under the Electricity Act 1989  or Gas Act 1986 .

  The Regulations require suppliers to reduce, by amounts prescribed by the
Secretary of State, the prices that they charge customers for energy during
the “ scheme period ” (1st October 2022 to 31st March 2023). Suppliers are
entitled to recover from the Secretary of State reductions made under Parts 2
and 4, but not under Part 5, of the Regulations.

  Part 1 (introductory) defines key terms and parameters of EBRS. With certain
exceptions, EBRS applies in respect of all contracts for the supply of
electricity and gas by licensed suppliers to non-domestic customers during the
scheme period. However, the detail of its application to any given contract
(including how discounts are calculated) depends on how prices are set under
it.

  Part 2 (discounted supply price) sets out how the discounts that are to be
applied by suppliers are to be calculated, based on wholesale energy prices.
The Regulations set out how the figures to be used in calculating discounts
are derived (regulations 10 and 11). A supplier must first assign each
contract to the correct category (e.g. “fixed price contract”: see regulations
12 and 14 to 16) before calculating the applicable discount and providing it
to the customer (regulations 17 to 20).

  Part 3 (discount recovery) deals with the process by which each supplier is
entitled to be paid by the Secretary of State an amount equal to the charges
it has foregone in applying discounts under Part 2. In specified
circumstances, the amount that a supplier receives in response to its claim
for payment of an amount in respect of discounts is adjusted. Where such
adjustments result in a negative sum, the customer must pay that sum (as a
positive amount) to the Secretary of State. Amounts claimed by suppliers may
be withheld in certain cases, for example where a supplier has acted
dishonestly or failed to take proper measures to prevent fraud.

  Part 4 (adjustment of discount or supply quantity in certain cases) makes
provision to prevent suppliers or customers from deriving greater benefit from
EBRS than is intended in certain scenarios. The Regulations provide for the
benefits that customers and suppliers receive from the scheme to be reduced to
take account of their entry into specified kinds of arrangements.

  Part 5 provides for an additional reduction to be applied to the amounts
payable for energy by a defined group of customers who are supplied under so-
called “deemed” or “out-of-contract” contracts. Reductions applied under Part
5 are not recoverable from the Secretary of State.

  Part 6 (further provisions) deals with a number of different matters.
Regulation 55 prohibits unreasonable increases in suppliers’ charges and other
changes adverse to the customer. Regulation 56 implies terms relating to the
scheme into non-domestic supply contracts. Regulations 59 to 62 impose
information and reporting obligations. Regulations 62 to 66 make provision
about the resolution of disputes arising from the operation of the scheme.
Regulation 67 provides that specified obligations of suppliers under the
regulations are enforceable by the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority.
Regulation 68 provides for the Secretary of State to impose civil penalties in
respect of missing or defective declarations under Part 4.

  A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business and the voluntary sector is available from the Department
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy at 1 Victoria Street, London,
SW1H 0ET and is published with the Explanatory Memorandum alongside the
instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

