Title: The Air Navigation (Isle of Man) (Amendment) Order 2022
Date: 2024-05-16
Description: The Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015 (S.I. 2015/870) makes provision for the Isle of Man in relation to the registration, marking, airworthiness, equipment, manning, operation, movement and safety of aircraft and the licensing and welfare of flight crew.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/172

## The Air Navigation (Isle of Man) (Amendment) Order 2022

    Civil Aviation

  Made   16th February 2022

  Coming into force in accordance with article 1

    At the Court at Windsor Castle, the 16th day of February 2022 Present, The
Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council         This Order is made in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 60 and 61 of the Civil Aviation
Act 1982 .         Her Majesty, by and with the advice of Her Privy Council,
orders as follows:

### Citation and commencement

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Air Navigation (Isle of Man) (Amendment) Order
2022.

1.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), this Order comes into force on the date of
the coming into operation of the Civil Aviation (Aircraft Registration and
Marking) Order 2022 .

1.3

Articles 7, 12 and 13(1)(b), (2)(b) and (3)(a) come into force on the date of
the coming into operation of the Civil Aviation (Aerodromes) Order 2022 .

1.4

Articles 8,   8A, 8B(b), 8C,  9(2), 11(a) and 13(3)(b) come into force on the
date of the coming into operation of the Civil Aviation (Miscellaneous
Amendments) Order 2022 .

### Amendment to the Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015

2

The Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015  is amended as follows.

### Registration and marking of aircraft

3

Omit articles 4 to 10.

### Operations

4

In article 11, after “an aircraft registered in the Isle of Man”, insert
“prior to the date of the coming into operation of the Civil Aviation
(Aircraft Registration and Marking) Order 2022   (SD 2022/0073) ” .

### Certificate of airworthiness

5

In article 15(2), for subparagraph (g) substitute—

5.g

a single-seat deregulated aeroplane which is flying on a private flight.

.

### Marking of break-in areas

6

Omit article 63.

### Aerodromes, aeronautical lights and dangerous lights

7

Omit articles 126 to 134.

### Restriction on aerial photography, aerial survey and aerial work

8

Omit article 141.

### Revocation, suspension and variation of permissions, etc

8A

In article 145—

8A.a

in the heading, omit “or article 141”;

8A.b

in paragraph (1), omit “or article 141”.

### Department’s power to prevent aircraft flying

8B

In article 147(2)(a)—

8B.a

omit “10,”;

8B.b

for “, 139 or 141” substitute  “or 139” .

### Exemption from Order

8C

In article 156, omit “141,”.

### Interpretation

9

9.1

In article 167(1)—

9.1.a

after the definition of “Authorised person”, insert—

“ Basic Regulation ” means Regulation (EU) 2018/1139 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2018 on common rules in the field of
civil aviation and establishing a European Union Aviation Safety Agency, and
amending Regulations  (EC) No 2111/2005 ,  (EC) No 1008/2008 , (EU) No
996/2010, (EU) No 376/2014 and Directives  2014/30/EU  and  2014/53/EU  of the
European Parliament and of the Council, and repealing Regulations  (EC) No
552/2004  and  (EC) No 216/2008  of the European Parliament and of the Council
and  Council Regulation (EEC) No 3922/91 ;

;

9.1.b

for the definition of “the Department”, substitute—

“ the Department ” means the Department for Enterprise of the Isle of Man
Government;

;

9.1.c

in the definition of “EASA”—

9.1.c.i

after “European” insert  “Union” ;

9.1.c.ii

delete “EASA” in the second place it occurs;

9.1.d

omit the definition of “Microlight aeroplane”;

9.1.e

after the definition of “Night”, insert—

“ Non-Part 21 aircraft ” means an aircraft which would not be required by the
Basic Regulation to hold a certificate of airworthiness or a restricted
certificate of airworthiness under subpart H of Part 21 or a permit to fly
under subpart P of Part 21;

;

9.1.f

for the definition of “Part 21”, substitute—

“ Part 21 ” means the Annex so entitled to  Commission Regulation (EU) No
748/2012  of 3 August 2012 laying down implementing rules for the
airworthiness and environmental certification of aircraft and related
products, parts and appliances, as well as for the certification of design and
production organisations;

;

9.1.g

after the definition of “Self-sustaining glider”, insert—

“ Single-seat deregulated aeroplane ” means a non-Part 21 aircraft, other than
an unmanned aircraft, which is designed to carry not more than one person,
which has— a maximum take-off mass not exceeding— 300kg for a landplane (or
390kg for a landplane of which at least 51% was built by an amateur, or non-
profit making association of amateurs (“the association”), for the amateur or
the association’s own purposes and without any commercial objective, in
respect of which a permit to fly issued by the CAA was in force prior to 1st
January 2003); 330kg for an amphibian or floatplane; or 315kg for a landplane
equipped with an airframe mounted total recovery parachute system; and a
stalling speed, or minimum steady flight speed in the landing configuration,
at the maximum take-off mass not exceeding 35 knots calibrated airspeed;

.

9.2

For article 167(3), substitute—

9.2.3

Aircraft shall be classified in accordance with the Classification of Aircraft
in the Schedule to the Civil Aviation (Miscellaneous Provisions) Order 2020
(SD 2020/0134).

.

### Commercial air transport and aerial work

10

In article 172, after “commercial air transport flight”, insert  “by an
aircraft registered in the Isle of Man prior to the date of the coming into
operation of the Civil Aviation (Aircraft Registration and Marking) Order 2022
(SD 2022/0073) ” .

### Classification and marking of aircraft and dealer certification

11

In Schedule 2, omit—

11.a

Part 1 (classification of aircraft); and

11.b

Parts 2 (conditions in aircraft dealer’s certificate) and 3 (nationality and
registration marks of aircraft registered in the Isle of Man).

### Information and instructions to be included in an aerodrome manual

12

Omit Schedule 9.

### Penalties

13

13.1

In Part 1 of Schedule 11, omit the entries in respect of—

13.1.a

articles 6(6) and 7(1) to 7(3);

13.1.b

articles 129(3), 130(4), 131 and 132.

13.2

In Part 2 of Schedule 11, omit the entries in respect of—

13.2.a

articles 10(1), 10(3) and 63(2);

13.2.b

articles 126, 128, 129(4), 129(5), 129(7) to 129(10), 132A(3), 134(1) and
134(2), and 134(4) and 134(5).

13.3

In Part 3 of Schedule 11, omit the entries in respect of—

13.3.a

articles 134(6) and 134(7);

13.3.b

article 141.

### Transitional and saving provision

14

Notwithstanding the revocation by article 3 of this Order of article 6 of the
Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015, where an aircraft has been registered
and a certificate of registration issued under article 6 of that Order, and
the registration and certificate of registration are valid immediately before
that revocation comes into force, the registration has effect as if done, and
the certificate has effect as if issued, by the Department for Enterprise of
the Isle of Man Government under article 9 of the Civil Aviation (Aircraft
Registration and Marking) Order 2022.

Ceri King Deputy Clerk of the Privy Council

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Order)

The Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015 ( S.I. 2015/870 ) makes provision
for the Isle of Man in relation to the registration, marking, airworthiness,
equipment, manning, operation, movement and safety of aircraft and the
licensing and welfare of flight crew.

The Airports and Civil Aviation Act 1987 (AT 10 of 1987) (an Act of Tynwald),
as amended by the Airports and Civil Aviation (Amendment) Act 2018 (AT 12 of
2018) (an Act of Tynwald), provides enabling powers so that the Isle of Man is
able to make its own secondary legislation in relation to civil aviation.

This Order accordingly amends the Air Navigation (Isle of Man) Order 2015 by
revoking provisions relating to the registration and marking of aircraft,
certain aircraft operations, aircraft classification and aerodromes.

These revocations have effect from the date when replacement provisions made
by the Isle of Man come into force. These can be found in the Civil Aviation
(Aircraft Registration and Marking) Order 2022 (SD No 2022/0073), the Civil
Aviation (Aerodromes) Order 2022 (SD No 2022/0074) and the Civil Aviation
(Miscellaneous Amendments) Order 2022 (SD No 2022/0075).

Provision relating to the requirement for a certificate of airworthiness is
also amended to provide an exemption for certain flights of single-seat
deregulated aeroplanes, and will also take effect upon commencement of the
Civil Aviation (Aircraft Registration and Marking) Order 2022. The exemption
for single-seat deregulated aeroplanes replaces the previous exemption which
referred to microlight aeroplanes to align with recent changes to the Air
Navigation Order 2016 ( S.I. 2016/765 ) made by the Air Navigation (Amendment)
Order 2021 ( S.I. 2021/879 ).

