Title: The Scallop Enhancement Sites (Prohibited Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations prohibit fishing for sea-fish by demersal mobile fishing gear and diving for scallops in a number of defined locations within the Northern Ireland zone which have been established as scallop reseeding sites. These sites are located at Ballyquintin, Drumfad Bay, Roaring Rock and Whitehead. An exception to this prohibition applies to those who have a permit granted from the Department under section 14 of the Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 to fish for scientific purposes.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/272

## The Scallop Enhancement Sites (Prohibited Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Sea Fisheries

  Made   26th October 2022

  Coming into operation-   1st January 2023

      The Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs , in
exercise of the powers conferred by sections 19(1) and 124(1), (2) and (2A) of
the Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966 , makes the following Regulations.

### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Scallop Enhancement Sites (Prohibited
Methods of Fishing) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2022 and come into
operation on 1 January 2023.

### Interpretation

2

In these Regulations—

      “ the Act ” means the Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966;           “
Ballyquintin scallop enhancement site ” means the area of the sea drawn by a
line joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in column 1 in Table 1
of the Schedule, the co-ordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3
opposite each point;           “ co-ordinate ” means a co-ordinate on the
World Geodetic System 1984 Datum and co-ordinate reference system ;
“ demersal mobile gear ” means any fishing gear that is towed along the sea
bed or is otherwise moved through the water on or close to the sea bed to
catch fish, and includes, for example, a dredge, demersal seine net and
demersal trawl net;           “ demersal seine net ” means a fishing gear
assembly incorporating a conical shaped net and ropes, constructed to catch
fish by the method of encirclement, and which is towed along the sea bed by a
fishing boat;           “ demersal trawl net ” means a fishing gear assembly
incorporating a conical shaped net, ropes and devices to hold open the mouth
of the net, constructed to catch fish whilst being towed along the sea bed by
a fishing boat;           “ dredge ” means a mechanical dredge or suction
dredge;           “ Drumfad Bay scallop enhancement site ” means the area of
the sea drawn by a line joining each of the points lettered alphabetically in
column 1 in Table 2 of the Schedule, the co-ordinates which are set out in
columns 2 and 3 opposite each point;           “ mechanical dredge ” means a
device with a rigid framed mouth constructed to catch shell-fish whilst being
towed along the sea bed by a fishing boat;           “ Roaring Rock scallop
enhancement site ” means the area of the sea drawn by a line joining each of
the points lettered alphabetically in column 1 in Table 3 of the Schedule, the
co-ordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point;
“ suction dredge ” means—         a dredge which raises material or shell-fish
from the sea bed using a solids pump, water pump, air lift, air jets or water
jets which dig into the sea bed; or           any other mechanical, pneumatic
or hydraulic device which raises material or shell-fish from the sea bed by
means of suction or pumping;                 “ Whitehead scallop enhancement
site ” means the area of the sea drawn by a line joining each of the points
lettered alphabetically in column 1 in Table 4 of the Schedule, the
coordinates which are set out in columns 2 and 3 opposite each point.

### Prohibited methods of fishing

3

3.1

Subject to paragraph (2) fishing for sea-fish using demersal mobile gear and
diving for scallops is prohibited in—

3.1.a

Ballyquintin scallop enhancement site;

3.1.b

Drumfad Bay scallop enhancement site;

3.1.c

Roaring Rock scallop enhancement site;

3.1.d

Whitehead scallop enhancement site.

3.2

The prohibition in paragraph (1) does not apply to any person who is operating
within any of those sites under the authority of and in accordance with the
terms and conditions of a permit granted under section 14 of the Act.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department of Agriculture,
Environment and Rural Affairs on 26th October 2022.         Owen Lyttle   A
senior officer of the   Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural
Affairs

  Scallop Enhancement Sites

Regulation 2

  Table 1 Ballyquintin       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 19.973’N 005°
29.668’W B. 54° 19.74372’N 005° 28.5436’W C. 54° 19.4295’N 005° 28.2073’W D.
54° 18.86208’N 005° 29.7722’W E. 54° 19.21842’N 005° 30.4834’W F. 54° 19.782’N
005° 30.326’W

  Table 2 Drumfad Bay       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 36.059’N 005°
30.99’W B. 54° 36.20898’N 005° 30.5348’W C. 54° 35.75628’N 005° 29.5691’W D.
54° 35.522’N 005° 30.159’W

  Table 3 Roaring Rock       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 10.073’N 005°
52.309’W B. 54° 10.02924’N 005° 51.3788’W C. 54° 08.60976’N 005° 51.9997’W D.
54° 08.646’N 005° 52.904’W

  Table 4 Whitehead       Points Latitude Longitude   A. 54° 45.811’N 005°
41.584’W B. 54° 45.72978’N 005° 40.7575’W C. 54° 44.196’N 005° 42.3457’W D.
54° 44.336’N 005° 43.358’W

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations prohibit fishing for sea-fish by demersal mobile fishing
gear and diving for scallops in a number of defined locations within the
Northern Ireland zone which have been established as scallop reseeding sites.
These sites are located at Ballyquintin, Drumfad Bay, Roaring Rock and
Whitehead. An exception to this prohibition applies to those who have a permit
granted from the Department under section 14 of the Fisheries Act (Northern
Ireland) 1966 to fish for scientific purposes.

  Contravention of the Regulations is an offence under section 124(3) of the
Fisheries Act (Northern Ireland) 1966. The penalty on summary conviction is a
fine not exceeding level 5 on the standard scale (£5,000).

