Title: The State Pension Debits and Credits (Revaluation) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022
Date: 2023-06-10
Description: This Order corresponds to an Order (S.I. 2022/1250) made by the Secretary of State for Work and Pensions under sections 148AD(2) and (3) and 189(1) and (4) of the Social Security Administration Act 1992 (c. 5).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/nisr/2022/297

## The State Pension Debits and Credits (Revaluation) Order (Northern Ireland) 2022

    Social Security

  Made   30th November 2022

  Coming into operation in accordance with Article 1(1)

      This Order is made in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 130AD
and 165(1) and (4) of the Social Security Administration (Northern Ireland)
Act 1992  and now vested in the Department for Communities .       The
Secretary of State for Work and Pensions has made an Order  under sections
148AD(2) and (3) and 189(1) and (4) of the Social Security Administration Act
1992 .           Accordingly the Department for Communities makes the
following Order.

### Citation, commencement and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the State Pension Debits and Credits (Revaluation)
Order (Northern Ireland) 2022 and shall come into operation on—

1.1.a

21st December 2022 for the purpose of making an award on a claim for a state
pension under regulation 15(1) of the Social Security (Claims and Payments)
Regulations (Northern Ireland) 1987  (advance notice of retirement and claim
for and award of pension) to a person who reaches pensionable age  on or after
11th April 2023; and

1.1.b

10th April 2023 for all other purposes.

1.2

In this Article “ a state pension ” means a state pension under Part 1 of the
Pensions Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 .

### The increase in the amount of relevant debits or credits

2

For the purposes of paragraph 3 of each of Schedules 8 and 10 to the Pensions
Act (Northern Ireland) 2015 (pension sharing: appropriate weekly rate and
reduction), the amount of relevant debits or credits for the tax year
specified in the first column of the table set out in the Schedule to this
Order is directed to be increased by the percentage of their amount specified
in the corresponding entry in the second column.

      Sealed with the Official Seal of the Department for Communities on 30th
November 2022       (L.S.)   Anne McCleary   A senior officer of the
Department for Communities

  Percentage increase of the amounts of relevant debits or credits for
specified tax years

Article 2

      Tax Year Percentage increase   2016-2017 23.6 2017-2018 22.4 2018-2019
18.8 2019-2020 16.0 2020-2021 14.1 2021-2022 13.5 2022-2023 10.1

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order corresponds to an Order ( S.I. 2022/1250 ) made by the Secretary
of State for Work and Pensions under sections 148AD(2) and (3) and 189(1) and
(4) of the Social Security Administration Act  1992 (c. 5) .

  Article 2 of this Order revalues debits and credits under Article 46A(2) of
the Welfare Reform and Pensions (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/3147
(N.I. 11) ) in accordance with the increase in the general level of prices.

  Under paragraph 3 of each of Schedules 8 and 10 to the Pensions Act
(Northern Ireland)  2015 (c. 5 (N.I.) ) (“ the 2015 Act ”) debits to which a
person is subject (under section 14 of the 2015 Act) and credits to which a
person is entitled (under section 13 of the 2015 Act) are revalued by the
percentage specified by the last order under section 130AD of the Social
Security Administration (Northern Ireland) Act  1992 (c. 8)  to come into
operation before the person reached pensionable age. Pensionable age has the
meaning given by the rules in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to the Pensions
(Northern Ireland) Order 1995 ( S.I. 1995/3213 (N.I. 22) ).

  Article 1(1) ensures that the revaluation of relevant debits or credits will
apply to persons reaching pensionable age on or after 11th April 2023,
including those who make an advance claim for a state pension under regulation
15(1) of the Social Security (Claims and Payments) Regulations (Northern
Ireland) 1987.

