Title: The Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) (Amendment) Order 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Description: This Order amends the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007 (S.I. 2007/1014) by updating a number of forms used at parliamentary elections in Wales, following amendments to parliamentary election forms made by or as a result of the Elections Act 2022 (c. 37).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1402

## The Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) (Amendment) Order 2022

    Representation Of The People, Wales

  Made   22nd December 2022

  Laid before Parliament   23rd December 2022

  Coming into force   16th January 2023

      The Secretary of State makes the following Order in exercise of the
powers conferred by section 26(2) of the Welsh Language Act 1993 , as applied
by section 22 of the Representation of the People Act 1985 .

### Citation, commencement, extent and savings

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms)
(Amendment) Order 2022 and comes into force on 16th January 2023.

1.2

This Order extends to England and Wales.

1.3

Article 2(2), (3)(a) and (4) does not apply in relation to a parliamentary
general election to which paragraph 18 of Schedule 1 to the Elections Act 2022
does not apply.

1.4

This Order does not apply in relation to an election in respect of which the
date of poll as specified in the notice of election published in accordance
with rule 5 of Schedule 1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983  is on
or before 3rd May 2023.

### Amendment of the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007

2

2.1

The Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007  is amended as follows.

2.2

In article 6 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms and a form of
words), in paragraph (1), after sub-paragraph (s) insert—

2.2.t

in the case of form 20, the form of the ballet paper refusal list set out in
Schedule 4 to the Voter Identification Regulations 2022 .

.

2.3

In Schedule 1 (Welsh version of prescribed forms and a form of words), for
each of the following forms substitute the corresponding form set out in
Schedule 1 to this Order—

2.3.a

form 2 (Welsh form of questions set out in the table in rule 35 of Schedule 1
to the Representation of the People Act 1983 );

2.3.b

form 4 (form of declaration to be made by the companion of a voter with
disabilities);

2.3.c

form 5 (companion declaration for combined polls).

2.4

In Schedule 2 (Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms and a form of
words)—

2.4.a

for each of the following forms substitute the corresponding form set out in
Schedule 2 to this Order—

2.4.a.i

form 2 (form of directions for the guidance of voters in voting);

2.4.a.ii

form 4 (form of directions for the guidance of voters in voting for combined
polls);

2.4.a.iii

form 4A (voting compartment notice for combined polls);

2.4.a.iv

form 5 (official poll card);

2.4.a.v

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.4.b

after form 19 (corresponding number list – combined election) insert form 20
(ballot paper refusal list) as set out in Schedule 2 to this Order.

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Levelling Up, Housing
and Communities       Scott of Bybrook   Parliamentary Under Secretary of
State   Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities     22nd December
2022

  Welsh version of prescribed forms and a form of words

Article 2(3)

  Form 2: Welsh form of questions set out in the table in rule 35 of Schedule
1 to the Representation of the People Act 1983

  Form 4: Form of declaration to be made by the companion of a voter with
disabilities

  Form 5: Companion declaration for combined polls

    Page 1

    Page 2

Welsh and English versions of prescribed forms

Article 2(4)

Form 2: Form of directions for the guidance of voters in voting

Form 4: Form of directions for the guidance of voters in voting (guidance for
voters at a combined poll)

Form 4A: Voting compartment notice for combined polls

Form 5: Official poll card (to be sent to an elector voting in person)

Front of form

Rear of form



...



Form 20: Ballot paper refusal list

Page 1

Page 2

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order amends the Parliamentary Elections (Welsh Forms) Order 2007 (
S.I. 2007/1014 ) by updating a number of forms used at parliamentary elections
in Wales, following amendments to parliamentary election forms made by or as a
result of the Elections Act  2022 (c. 37) .

  Article 2(3) and Schedule 1 updated certain Welsh versions of forms and a
prescribed form of words. Article 2(4) and Schedule 2 update certain versions
of forms which are partly in Welsh and partly in English.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no
impact on the private or voluntary sectors is foreseen.

