Title: The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 9 and Transitional and Saving Provisions) Order 2022
Date: 2024-06-27
Description: This Order brings into force provisions of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (“the Act”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/wsi/2022/892

## The Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 9 and Transitional and Saving Provisions) Order 2022

    Education, Wales

  Made   16 August 2022

      The Welsh Ministers, in exercise of the powers conferred by section
100(3) and (4) of the Additional Learning Needs and Education Tribunal (Wales)
Act 2018 , make the following Order:

### Title and interpretation

1

1.1

The title of this Order is the Additional Learning Needs and Education
Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (Commencement No. 9 and Transitional and Saving
Provisions) Order 2022.

1.2

In this Order—

      “ the 1996 Act ” (“ Deddf 1996 ”) means the Education Act 1996 ;
“ the Act ” (“y  Ddeddf ”) means the Additional Learning Needs and Education
Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018;           “ child ” (“ plentyn ”) means a person
who is not over compulsory school age;           “ code ” (“ cod ”) means a
code on additional learning needs issued under section 4 of the Act;
“ compulsory school age ” (“ oedran ysgol gorfodol ”) has the same meaning as
in section 8  of the 1996 Act;           “ in the area ” (“ yn ardal ”) has
the same meaning as in section 579(3B)  of the 1996 Act;           “
individual development plan ” (“ cynllun datblygu unigol ”) means a plan
prepared and maintained under Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act;           “
local authority ” (“ awdurdod lleol ”) has the same meaning as in section 99
of the Act;           “ looked after child ” (“ plentyn sy’n derbyn gofal ”)
has the same meaning as in section 15 of the Act;           “ parent ” (“
rhiant ”) has the same meaning as in section 576  of the 1996 Act;           “
Tribunal ” (“ Tribiwnlys ”) means the Education Tribunal for Wales ;
“ Tribunal Rules ” (“ Rheolau’r Tribiwnlys ”) means Special Educational Needs
Tribunal for Wales Regulations 2012 .

1.3

References in this Order to “the old law” are to Chapter 1 of Part 4 of the
1996 Act.

1.4

References in this Order to “the new law” are to—

1.4.a

the Act,

1.4.b

a regulation or the code made under that Act, and

1.4.c

any other provision of, or made under, an act that has effect for the purposes
of or in relation to—

1.4.c.i

a provision of the Act or such regulations or code, or

1.4.c.ii

a person to whom the Act or such regulations or code applies.

1.5

For the purposes of this Order an appeal is finally determined if it is
withdrawn, or if—

1.5.a

a decision is made by a tribunal or court on the appeal, and

1.5.b

if a request may be made to review the decision or it may be further appealed,
and the period (or each of the periods) for doing so expires without a review
being requested or further appeal being made.

1.6

For the purposes of this Order, a local authority is responsible for a child
if he or she is in the area of the authority.

1.7

For the purposes of this Order, where a child is—

1.7.a

a looked after child, the appropriate local authority is the local authority
that looks after the child;

1.7.b

not a looked after child, the appropriate local authority is the local
authority responsible for the child.

1.8

For the purposes of this Order, a matter is ongoing when—

1.8.a

a local authority has served a notice under section 323 of the 1996 Act and
the assessment has not commenced and no notice has been given under section
323(6) of the 1996 Act;

1.8.b

a request has been made under section 329 or 329A of the 1996 Act for an
assessment under section 323 of the 1996 Act and the local authority has not
determined whether to comply with the request;

1.8.c

a request has been made under section 329 or 329A of the 1996 Act for an
assessment under section 323 of the 1996 Act and the local authority
determines not to comply with the request and—

1.8.c.i

the time within which an appeal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996
Act has to be made under Part B of the Tribunal Rules has not expired;

1.8.c.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination has been made but not finally determined; or

1.8.c.iii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination was finally determined and the local authority
was ordered to arrange an assessment, and that assessment has not commenced;

1.8.d

a local authority is undertaking an assessment of educational needs under
section 323 of the 1996 Act;

1.8.e

a local authority proposes not to make a statement following an assessment
and—

1.8.e.i

the period within which an appeal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act has to
be made under Part B of the Tribunal Rules has not expired;

1.8.e.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision has been made but not finally determined; or

1.8.e.iii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision was made and finally determined and the local authority was
ordered to—

1.8.e.iii.aa

make and maintain a statement and the making of the statement has not
commenced; or

1.8.e.iii.bb

reconsider its decision and that reconsideration has not commenced;

1.8.f

a local authority must make a statement under section 324 of the 1996 Act but
the making of the statement has not commenced;

1.8.g

a local authority must make a statement under section 324 of the 1996 Act but
the statement has not been made;

1.8.h

an assessment under section 331 of the 1996 Act is ongoing.

1.9

For the purposes of this Order, an appeal is ongoing when—

1.9.a

a request has been made under section 329 or 329A of the 1996 Act for an
assessment under section 323 of the 1996 Act and the local authority
determines not to comply with the request and—

1.9.a.i

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination has been made but not finally determined; or

1.9.a.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 329(2) or 329A(8) of the 1996 Act in
relation to that determination was finally determined and the local authority
was ordered to arrange an assessment, and that assessment has not commenced;

1.9.b

a local authority proposes not to make a statement following an assessment
and—

1.9.b.i

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision has been made but not finally determined; or

1.9.b.ii

an appeal to the Tribunal under section 325(2) of the 1996 Act in relation to
that decision was made and finally determined and the local authority was
ordered to—

1.9.b.ii.aa

make and maintain a statement and the making of the statement has not
commenced; or

1.9.b.ii.bb

reconsider its decision and that reconsideration has not commenced.

### Application of this Order

2

This Order applies to a child in relation to whom there is a matter ongoing on
1 September 2022.

### Provisions coming into force on 1 September 2022

3

The following provisions of the Act come into force on 1 September 2022 in
relation to a child to whom this Order applies—

3.a

sections 2 to 4;

3.b

sections 6 to 14;

3.c

sections 17 to 36;

3.d

section 38;

3.e

sections 40 to 44;

3.f

sections 47 to 49;

3.g

section 50(1) for the purposes of the provisions in paragraph (h);

3.h

section 50(4) and (5);

3.i

sections 51 to 53;

3.j

section 55;

3.k

section 59;

3.l

sections 63 to 66;

3.m

sections 68 and 69;

3.n

section 96 for the purposes of the provisions in paragraph (o);

3.o

in the Schedule—

3.o.i

paragraph 1;

3.o.ii

paragraph 4(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraphs (iii) to
(xi);

3.o.iii

paragraph 4(2) to 4(6);

3.o.iv

paragraph 4(7) to the extent that the paragraph has not been repealed in
relation to the child ;

3.o.v

paragraph 4(8) and (9);

3.o.vi

paragraph 4(10);

3.o.vii

paragraph 4(13) to 4(18);

3.o.viii

paragraph 4(19)(b);

3.o.ix

paragraph 4(20) and 4(21);

3.o.x

paragraph 4(23) to 4(29);

3.o.xi

paragraph 4(32)(a)(i) and (ii) and paragraph 4(32)(b);

3.o.xii

paragraph 7;

3.o.xiii

paragraph 8;

3.o.xiv

paragraph 11(a);

3.o.xv

paragraph 12(a);

3.o.xvi

paragraph 14(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xvii);

3.o.xvii

paragraph 14(2) and (3);

3.o.xviii

paragraph 19(1) for the purpose of the provision in sub-paragraph (xix);

3.o.xix

paragraph 19(5)(e)(ii);

3.o.xx

paragraph 21(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xxi);

3.o.xxi

paragraph 21(2)(a)(i) and (2)(b)(ii);

3.o.xxii

paragraph 22;

3.o.xxiii

paragraph 23(1) for the purpose of the provision in sub-paragraph (xxiv);

3.o.xxiv

paragraph 23(4);

3.o.xxv

paragraph 24(1) for the purposes of the provisions in sub-paragraph (xxvi);

3.o.xxvi

paragraph 24(3) and (6)(a).

### Saving provision

4

Subject to articles 9 and 10 and articles 12 to 15, despite the disapplication
by section 96 and paragraph 4(9) of the Schedule to the Act of Chapter 1 of
Part 4 of the 1996 Act  in relation to a child to whom this Order applies—

4.a

the old law continues to have effect in relation to that child, and

4.b

the new law does not have effect in relation to that child.

### IDP notice

5

An IDP notice is a notice given to a child and a child’s parent which confirms
that—

5.a

the child has additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part
2 of the Act, and

5.b

an individual development plan will be prepared for the child.

### No IDP notice

6

A No IDP notice is a notice given to a child and a child’s parent which
confirms that the appropriate local authority has decided that the child does
not have additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of
the Act.

### Effect of IDP notice

7

The effect of the IDP notice is that—

7.a

the appropriate local authority is deemed to have decided on the date of the
notice that the child has additional learning needs under Chapter 2 of Part 2
of the Act,

7.b

the new law applies in relation to the child on that date, and

7.c

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child on that date.

### Effect of No IDP notice

8

The effect of the No IDP notice is that—

8.a

the appropriate local authority is deemed to have decided on the date of the
notice that the child does not have additional learning needs under Chapter 2
of Part 2 of the Act,

8.b

the new law applies in relation to the child on that date, and

8.c

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child on that date.

### Duty to give a notice

9

9.1

Where a local authority has served a notice under section 323 of the 1996 Act,
and that assessment has not commenced by 1 September 2022, the appropriate
local authority must either give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child
and the child’s parent as soon as reasonably practicable after 1 September
2022.

9.2

Where a request is made under section 329 or 329A of the 1996 Act and on 1
September 2022 the local authority has not determined whether to comply with
the request, the appropriate local authority must either give an IDP notice or
a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s parent as soon as reasonably
practicable after 1 September 2022.

9.3

Where a local authority is conducting an assessment under section 323 or 331
of the 1996 Act on 1 September 2022, the appropriate local authority must
either give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s
parent as soon as reasonably practicable after 1 September 2022.

9.4

Where the period for bringing an appeal under section 325(2), 329(2) or
329A(8) of the 1996 Act has not expired on 1 September 2022, the appropriate
local authority must either give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child
and the child’s parent as soon as reasonably practicable after 1 September
2022.

9.5

Where an appeal has been made to the Tribunal under section 325(2), 329(2) or
329A(8) of the 1996 Act and that appeal is ongoing on 1 September 2022, the
appropriate local authority must either give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice
to the child and the child’s parent as soon as reasonably practicable after
that appeal is finally determined.

9.6

Where a local authority must make a statement under section 324 of the 1996
Act and on 1 September 2022 the making of the statement has not commenced or
the statement has not been made, the appropriate local authority must either
give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice to the child and the child’s parent as
soon as reasonably practicable after 1 September 2022.

### Right to request an IDP notice or a No IDP notice

10

10.1

A child to whom this Order applies or that child’s parent may request that the
appropriate local authority gives an IDP notice or a No IDP notice and the
local authority must give either an IDP notice or a No IDP notice as soon as
reasonably practicable after the request.

10.2

The duty to give an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in paragraph (1) does not
apply when—

10.2.a

an appeal is ongoing in relation to that child, or

10.2.b

articles 12 to 15 apply.

### Time for giving an individual development plan

11

11.1

When an IDP notice is given pursuant to article 9 or 10 a copy of the
individual development plan must be given to the child and the child’s parent
within 12 weeks of the date of the notice unless—

11.1.a

any of the circumstances in section 12(2) of the Act apply,

11.1.b

section 31 of the Act applies, or

11.1.c

there are exceptional circumstances.

11.2

If any of the circumstances in section 12(2) apply or there are exceptional
circumstances a copy of the individual development plan must be given as soon
as is reasonably practicable.

11.3

Any timescales in the code relating to the preparation of an individual
development plan do not apply when an individual development plan is prepared
following the giving of an IDP notice.

### Children for whom the new law does not apply by a certain date

12

12.1

This article applies to a child—

12.1.a

in relation to whom there is no ongoing appeal on 30 August 2024,

12.1.b

to whom article 13 does not apply, and

12.1.c

in relation to whom the new law does not apply on 30 August 2024.

12.2

On 31 August 2024—

12.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

12.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

13

13.1

This article applies to a child where the local authority is ordered to
perform an action as a result of an ongoing appeal being finally determined
and the action has not been performed by 30 August 2024.

13.2

On the transfer day—

13.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

13.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

13.3

In this article “ transfer day ” means the day after which the action referred
to in paragraph (1) is performed, or all of the actions have been performed if
there is more than one action.

14

14.1

This article applies to a child where an appeal is ongoing on 30 August 2024
in relation to that child.

14.2

On the transfer day—

14.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

14.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

14.3

In this article “ transfer day ” means—

14.3.a

unless sub-paragraph (b) applies, the day after the appeal is finally
determined;

14.3.b

where the local authority is ordered to perform an action as a result of the
ongoing appeal being finally determined, the day after which the action is
performed, or all of the actions have been performed if there is more than one
action.

### Change of circumstances

15

15.1

This article applies to a child—

15.1.a

who moves from the area of the local authority in which the child was in on 1
September 2022,

15.1.b

for whom a request for an IDP notice or a No IDP notice has not been made, and

15.1.c

in relation to whom the old law applies.

15.2

On the date that the child moves from the area of the local authority in which
the child was in on 1 September 2022—

15.2.a

the new law applies in relation to the child, and

15.2.b

the old law ceases to apply in relation to the child.

### Regard to special educational provision provided before IDP notice

16

Where an individual development plan is being prepared for a child within 12
weeks of moving to the new law, regard must be had to any special educational
provision provided to the child immediately before moving to the new law.

### Capacity of children

17

17.1

Subject to paragraph, paragraph applies to a child in relation to whom there
is a matter ongoing on 1 September 2022.

17.2

Nothing in this article applies to a person when that person ceases to be of
compulsory school age.

17.3

A duty in paragraph (4) does not apply if the appropriate local authority
considers that the child does not have capacity to understand the subject
matter.

17.4

The duties referred to in paragraph (3) are —

17.4.a

the duty to give a child an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in article 9;

17.4.b

the duty to give a notice following a request by a child under article 10;

17.4.c

the duty to give a child a copy of the individual development plan within 12
weeks in article 11(1).

17.5

Where paragraph (3) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (4)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child in article 5 is to be read as if it were
omitted.

17.6

Where paragraph (3) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (4)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child in article 6 is to be read as if it were
omitted.

### Children who become young persons before the new law applies

18

18.1

Paragraph (2) applies to a child in relation to whom there is a matter ongoing
on 1 September 2022.

18.2

A duty in paragraph (3) or the power in paragraph (4) does not apply when a
person ceases to be of compulsory school age.

18.3

The duties referred to in paragraph (2) are—

18.3.a

the duty to give a parent an IDP notice or a No IDP notice in article 9;

18.3.b

the duty to give a notice following a request by a parent under article 10;

18.3.c

the duty to give a parent a copy of the individual development plan within 12
weeks in article 11(1).

18.4

The power referred to in paragraph (2) is the power for a parent to request an
IDP notice or a No IDP notice in article 10.

18.5

Where paragraph (2) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (3)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child’s parent in article 5 is to be read as if it
were omitted.

18.6

Where paragraph (2) applies in relation to a duty in paragraph (3)(a) or (b),
the first reference to a child’s parent in article 6 is to be read as if it
were omitted.

      Jeremy Miles   Minister for Education and Welsh Language, one of the
Welsh Ministers     16 August 2022

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order brings into force provisions of the Additional Learning Needs and
Education Tribunal (Wales) Act 2018 (“ the Act ”).

  The Act establishes a statutory framework for supporting children and young
people with additional learning needs. This replaces the legislation
surrounding special educational needs and the assessment of children and young
people with learning difficulties.

  The provisions listed in article 3 come into force on 1 September 2022 in
relation to certain children who are engaged with the current statutory
framework on 1 September 2022 but do not have a statement of special
educational needs (article 2).

  Article 1 contains definitions, including the “new law” in the Act and the
“old law” in Part 4 of the Education Act 1996. Until a child is transferred to
the new law the old law will continue to apply to the child and the new law
will not have effect.

  This Order requires the appropriate local authority to give a notice to a
child (article 9). When the local authority has to give the notice depends on
the child’s engagement with the current statutory framework on 1 September
2022. The date of the notice given to a particular child will be the date that
child transfers to the new law.

  The appropriate local authority can give the child an IDP notice or a No IDP
notice. An IDP notice means that the child is deemed to have additional
learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of Part 2 of the Act on the date
of the notice and that it is intended that an individual development plan is
prepared for the child (article 5). A No IDP notice means that the child is
deemed not to have additional learning needs for the purposes of Chapter 2 of
Part 2 of the Act on the date of the notice (article 6).

  A child to whom this Order applies or the child’s parent can request that an
IDP notice or a No IDP notice is given (article 10).

  Where an individual development plan is prepared following an IDP notice, a
copy of the individual development plan must be given to the child and the
child’s parent within 12 weeks of the date of the notice unless certain
circumstances apply (article 11).

  If the child has not transferred to the new law by 31 August 2024, articles
12 to 14 set out the date on which the old law ceases and the new law has
effect in relation to the child.

  Article 15 deals with the situation where the circumstances of the child
change after 1 September 2022.

  When preparing an individual development plan for a child to whom this Order
applies, in certain circumstances regard must be had to any special
educational provision the child was receiving immediately before transferring
to the new law (article 16).

  Article 17 reflects section 84 of the Act which provides that certain duties
and conditions in that Act in relation to children (e.g. to give a child a
copy of an individual development plan) do not apply if it is considered that
the child does not have capacity to understand the subject matter.

  Article 18 provides that certain duties and conditions in relation to
parents in this Order (e.g. to give a parent an IDP notice or a No IDP notice)
do not apply when the child ceases to be of compulsory school age.

## NOTE AS TO EARLIER COMMENCMENT ORDERS

  The following provisions of the Act have been brought into force by
Commencement Orders made before the date of this Order :         Provision
Date of Commencement S.I. No   Sections 2 to 3 (partially) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 4 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 5 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) Section 6 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 7
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 8 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 9 to 14 (partially) 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C.
68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C.
70)     Section 15 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 16
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)      Sections 17 to 20
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 21 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 22 to 31
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 32 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections 33 to 35
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 36 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 37 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 38 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 39 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) Sections 40 to 44 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section
45 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 46 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 47 (partially)     2 November 2020
1 September 2021       1 January 2022         S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)       S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)
S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)
Sections 48 to 49 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)
1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W.
316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 50(1), (4) and
(5) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 50(1), (2) and (3) (fully) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 51 to 53 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 54 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I.
2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) Section 55 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1
January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316)
(C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 56 (partially) 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 56(1) 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267)
(C. 33) Section 56(4) to (6) 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
Sections 57 to 58 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 59
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 60 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182
(W. 267) (C. 33) Section 61 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33)
Section 62 4 January 2021 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Sections 63 to 64
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 65 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 66
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Section 67 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182
(W. 267) (C. 33) Sections 68 to 69 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373
(W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     Sections
70 to 73 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 74 2 November
2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) Section 75 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) Section 76 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267)
(C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 77
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373(W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 78 to 81 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 82 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182
(W. 267) (C. 33) Section 83 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W.
267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section
84 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 85 (partially) 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 86 to 90 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) Section 91 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267)
(C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 92
(partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Sections 93 to 94 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) Section 95 (partially) 2 November 2020
S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) Section 96 (partially) 2 November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267)
(C. 33) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 1 (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 2(1), 2(2)(b) and 2(3)
1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 3 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 4(1),
4(2) to 4(8), 4(9), 4(10), 4(13) to 4(18), 4(19)(b), 4(20), 4(21), 4(23) to
4(29), 4(32)(a)(i) and (ii), 4(32)(b) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)
S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)
The Schedule, paragraph 4(9) (in so far as it omits sections 333(1ZA), 333(2)
to 333(6) and 334 to 335), 4(12), 4(19)(a), 4(22), 4(30)(a)(ii), 4(30)(b),
4(31), 4(32)(a)(iii), 4(33)(a), 4(33)(b) (in so far as it omits certain
definitions), 4(33)(d), 4(33)(e) and 4(33)(g)     1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 6(d)(v), 6(f), 6(g),
6(j)(i), 6(l)(i), 6(l)(iii), 6(n)(ii) (in so far as it omits paragraph 11 of
Schedule 2), and 6(t)     1 September 2021         S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12)     The Schedule, paragraph 7 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373
(W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 8 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule,
paragraphs 9 and 10 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 11(a) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116)
(C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 11(b) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 12(a) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116)
(C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 12(b) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 13 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 14(1) to (3) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373
(W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I.
2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The
Schedule, paragraph 14(1) and 14(4) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C
.12) The Schedule, paragraph 15(1) and 15(3) to 15(4) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraphs 17 and 18 1 September 2021
S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 19(1), (2), (3), (5)(a)
to (d), (5)(e)(i), (5)(f) and (6) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) The Schedule, paragraph 19(1),(4) and (5)(g) and (h) (partially) 2
November 2020 S.I. 2020/1182 (W. 267) (C. 33) (fully) 1 September 2021 S.I.
2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 19(1), (5)(e)(ii)
(partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022
S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)
S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 20 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 21 (1), (2)(a)(i)
and (2)(b)(ii) (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1
January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316)
(C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph
21(1) and 21(b)(i) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) The
Schedule, paragraph 22 (partially) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C.
12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244
(W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule,
paragraph 23(1), 23(3)(a) to (c) and (5) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W.
116) (C. 12) The Schedule, paragraph 23(1) and (4) (partially) 1 September
2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I. 2021/1243 (W. 315)
(C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I. 2021/1245 (W. 317)
(C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 24(1) and 24(3) and (6)(a) (partially) 1
September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12) 1 January 2022     S.I.
2021/1243 (W. 315) (C. 68)       S.I. 2021/1244 (W. 316) (C. 69)       S.I.
2021/1245 (W. 317) (C. 70)     The Schedule, paragraph 24(1), 24(2), (5) and
(6)(b) and (c) 1 September 2021 S.I. 2021/373 (W. 116) (C. 12)

