Title: The Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2022
Date: 2022-08-10
Description: These Regulations, which apply in England only, amend seven instruments relating to financial support for students.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/57

## The Education (Student Fees, Awards and Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2022

This Statutory Instrument has been made in part to correct errors made in
S.I. 2021/1348  and is being issued free of charge to all known recipients of
that Statutory Instrument.

Education, England

Made 20th January 2022

Laid before Parliament 24th January 2022

Coming into force 15th February 2022

The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 1 and 2 of the Education (Fees and Awards) Act
1983 , sections 22 and 42(6) of the Teaching and Higher Education Act 1998
and sections 10(4)(b) and 119(5) of the Higher Education and Research Act 2017
.

### Introductory

#### Citation, commencement, extent and application

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Education (Student Fees, Awards and
Support) (Amendment) Regulations 2022 and come into force on 15th February
2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales.

1.3

The amendments made by regulations 3 to 12, 16, 18, 20, 23, 26 and 28 apply in
relation to the provision of support to a student in relation to a course
which begins on or after 1st August 2022, whether or not anything done under
these Regulations is done before, on, or after that date.

### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

#### Introductory

##### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011

2

The Education (Student Support) Regulations 2011  are amended as follows.

#### Relocated Afghan citizens

##### Eligibility of relocated Afghan citizens

3

In regulation 2(1)—

3.a

after the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim
of domestic violence or domestic abuse” , insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971 , on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules, as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

3.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme” —

3.b.i

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii), after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

3.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

3.b.iii

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” .

4

In regulation 4(13C) , in the opening words of sub-paragraph (a) and in sub-
paragraph (b), for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute
“one of the Afghan Schemes” .

5

In regulation 17(n)  for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

6

In regulation 85(2)(m)  for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

7

In regulation 137(11C) , in the opening words of sub-paragraph (a) and in sub-
paragraph (b), for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute
“one of the Afghan Schemes” .

8

In regulation 138(4)(o)  for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

9

In regulation 138A(2)(m)  for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

10

In regulation 159(16C) , in the opening words of sub-paragraph (a) and in sub-
paragraph (b), for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute
“one of the Afghan Schemes” .

11

In regulation 160(2)(m)  for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

12

In Schedule 1, in paragraph 14 and in the heading to that paragraph, for “the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan
Schemes” .

#### Overpayments

##### Recovery of fee loans

13

In regulation 117 , after paragraph (1A), insert—

13.1B

An academic authority must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay
any amount of a fee loan paid to the academic authority in respect of a
student which for whatever reason exceeds the amount of a fee loan to which
the student is entitled.

.

14

In regulation 157 , after paragraph (1A), insert—

14.1B

An academic authority must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay
any amount of a fee loan paid to the academic authority in respect of a
student which for whatever reason exceeds the amount of a fee loan to which
the student is entitled.

.

### Corresponding amendments to other Regulations

#### Amendment of the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007

15

The Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations 2007  are amended as
follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Relocated Afghan citizens: fees and awards

16

In Schedule 1 —

16.a

in paragraph 1(1)—

16.a.i

after the definition of “person granted humanitarian protection” , insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules, as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

16.a.ii

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

16.a.ii.aa

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

16.a.ii.bb

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

16.a.ii.cc

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” ;

16.b

in paragraph 5A and the heading to that paragraph, for “the Afghan Relocations
and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

#### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations 2010

17

The Education (Student Support) (European University Institute) Regulations
2010  are amended as follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Eligibility of relocated Afghan citizens

18

18.1

In regulation 9(11C) , in the opening words of sub-paragraph (a), and in sub-
paragraph (b), for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute
“one of the Afghan Schemes, as that expression is defined in paragraph 1(1) of
Schedule 1” .

18.2

In Schedule 1—

18.2.a

in paragraph 1(1)—

18.2.a.i

after the definition of “Member State”, insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules, as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

18.2.a.ii

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

18.2.a.ii.aa

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

18.2.a.ii.bb

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

18.2.a.ii.cc

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” ;

18.2.b

in paragraph 5A and the heading to that paragraph, for “the Afghan Relocations
and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

#### Amendment of the Further Education Loans Regulations 2012

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Further Education Loans Regulations 2012

19

The Further Education Loans Regulations 2012  are amended as follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Eligibility of relocated Afghan citizens: further education loans

20

20.1

In regulation 2(1) —

20.1.a

after the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim
of domestic violence or domestic abuse” , insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules, as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

20.1.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

20.1.b.i

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

20.1.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

20.1.b.iii

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” .

20.2

In regulation 3(8A)(a) and (b), for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance
Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

20.3

In regulation 7(m) for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

20.4

In paragraph 5A of Schedule 1 and in the heading to that paragraph, for “the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan
Schemes” .

##### Overpayments

###### Recovery of fee loans

21

In regulation 24, after paragraph (1) insert—

21.1A

A student must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay any amount of
a fee loan paid in respect of the student which for whatever reason exceeds
the amount of a fee loan to which the student is entitled.

21.1B

An institution must, if so required by the Secretary of State, repay any
amount of a fee loan paid to the institution in respect of a student which for
whatever reason exceeds the amount of a fee loan to which the student is
entitled.

.

#### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016

22

The Education (Postgraduate Master’s Degree Loans) Regulations 2016  are
amended as follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Eligibility of relocated Afghan citizens: Master’s degrees

23

23.1

In regulation 2(1) —

23.1.a

after the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim
of domestic violence or domestic abuse” , insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules, as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily
resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the
person was granted such leave;

.

23.1.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

23.1.b.i

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

23.1.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

23.1.b.iii

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” .

23.2

In regulation 8(n) for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

23.3

In paragraph 5A of Schedule 1 and in the heading to that paragraph, for “the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan
Schemes” .

##### Overpayments

###### Recovery of postgraduate master’s degree loans

24

In regulation 17, after paragraph (2), insert—

24.2A

An institution or third party must, if so required by the Secretary of State,
repay any amount of a postgraduate master’s degree loan paid to the
institution or third party in respect of a student which for whatever reason
exceeds the amount of loan to which the student is entitled.

.

#### Amendment of the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017

25

The Higher Education (Fee Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017  are
amended as follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Relocated Afghan citizens: fee limit condition

26

26.1

In regulation 2 —

26.1.a

after paragraph (bba), insert—

26.1.a.bbaa

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme;

26.1.a.bbab

“ person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person—

26.1.a.bbab.i

who has—

26.1.a.bbab.i.aa

indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside the
immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration Act 1971, on
the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or

26.1.a.bbab.i.bb

indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom, outside those
rules. as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or
dependent child of the spouse or civil partner; and

26.1.a.bbab.ii

who has been ordinarily resident in the United Kingdom and Islands throughout
the period since the person was granted such leave;

.

26.1.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

26.1.b.i

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

26.1.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

26.1.b.iii

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” .

26.2

In regulation 6(2)(m) for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

26.3

In paragraph 5F of the Schedule and in the heading to that paragraph, for “the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan
Schemes” .

#### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No 2) etc.) Regulations 2018

##### Introductory

###### Amendment of the Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No 2) etc.) Regulations 2018

27

The Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student
Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No 2) etc.) Regulations 2018  are amended as
follows.

##### Relocated Afghan citizens

###### Relocated Afghan citizens: Doctoral degrees

28

28.1

In regulation 2(1) —

28.1.a

after the definition of “person granted indefinite leave to remain as a victim
of domestic violence or domestic abuse” , insert—

“ person granted leave under one of the Afghan Schemes ” means a person
granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme or a person
granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Policy Scheme; “
person granted leave under the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme ” means a
person— who has— indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom,
outside the immigration rules as defined in section 33(1) of the Immigration
Act 1971, on the basis of the Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme; or
indefinite leave to enter or remain in the United Kingdom outside those rules,
as the spouse, civil partner or dependent child of such a person, or dependent
child of the spouse or civil partner; and who has been ordinarily resident in
the United Kingdom and Islands throughout the period since the person was
granted such leave;

.

28.1.b

in the definition of “person granted leave under the Afghan Relocations and
Assistance Scheme”—

28.1.b.i

in the opening words and in paragraph (a)(ii) and (iii) after “Assistance”
insert  “Policy” ;

28.1.b.ii

in paragraph (a)(i) for “276BB1(iv)” substitute  “276BB1(iii)(a)” ;

28.1.b.iii

in paragraph (a)(iv) for “276BJ1 or 276BO1” substitute  “276BJ2 or 276BO2” .

28.2

In regulation 8(n) for “the Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme”
substitute  “one of the Afghan Schemes” .

28.3

In paragraph 6A of Schedule 1 and in the heading to that paragraph, for “the
Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme” substitute  “one of the Afghan
Schemes” .

##### Overpayments

###### Recovery of postgraduate doctoral degree loans

29

In regulation 17, after paragraph (2), insert—

29.2A

An institution or third party must, if so required by the Secretary of State,
repay any amount of a postgraduate doctoral degree loan paid to the
institution or third party in respect of a student which for whatever reason
exceeds the amount of loan to which the student is entitled.

.

Michelle Donelan Minister of State Department for Education

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

(This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations, which apply in England only, amend seven instruments
relating to financial support for students.

Part 2 of these Regulations amends the Education (Student Support) Regulations
2011 ( S.I. 2011/1986 ) (‘the Student Support Regulations’).

Part 3 of these Regulations amends 6 related sets of Regulations (“ the
related Regulations ”): the Education (Fees and Awards) (England) Regulations
2007 ( S.I. 2007/779 ), the Education (Student Support) (European University
Institute) Regulations 2010 ( S.I. 2010/447 ), the Further Education Loans
Regulations 2012 ( S.I. 2012/1818 ), the Education (Postgraduate Master’s
Degree Loans) Regulations 2016 ( S.I. 2016/606 ), the Higher Education (Fee
Limit Condition) (England) Regulations 2017 ( S.I. 2017/1189 ) and the
Education (Postgraduate Doctoral Degree Loans and the Education (Student
Loans) (Repayment) (Amendment) (No. 2) etc.) Regulations 2018 ( S.I. 2018/599
).

Regulations 3 to 12 amend the Student Support Regulations for courses which
begin on or after 1st August 2022 so that arrivals from Afghanistan under the
Afghan Citizens Resettlement Scheme become entitled to support. They also make
minor changes to the definition of Afghan Relocations and Assistance Scheme.

Regulations 13 and 14 clarify the existing right to recovery of overpaid fee
loans from academic authorities under the Student Support Regulations.

Part 3 makes corresponding changes to the related Regulations.

An impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or no
significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sectors is foreseen.

